ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u1	I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly Programme for the Work of the National Assembly, the following additional item, and I propose that it be the first item for today's meeting: Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. Importer supplier Dragomir Stoynev, on 5 July 2018 We vote. Vote 157 MPs: 152, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members, I am doing a procedure to put to the vote a change in the agenda and item 8 "A bill for ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for Assistance of the Agency.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u3	I found out right after the committees. Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Please vote on the procedure. Vote 169 MPs: 113, against 52, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point one: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Defence Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 in relation to art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Spas Yanev Panchev as a member of the Defence Committee. 2. He elected Vasil Milanov Antonov as a member of the Defence Committee. Please, voting mode. Vote 168 MPs: 148, against 10, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Next. Project! DECISION amending the composition of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 in relation to art. 15, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Spas Yanev Panchev as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. 2. He elected Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov as a member of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Please, voting mode. Vote 167 MPs: 152, against 4, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point two: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CONSULTANT AGREEMENT TO HELP THE AGENCIA FOR THE RESTRUCTRUCTURING OF THE NATIONAL SYSTEM FOR ELECTRONIC COLLECTION OF TRAVELS IN BULGARIA BETWEEN THE AGENCEMENT OF THE INFRASTRUCTURE AND THE INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECOGNITION AND DEVELOPMENT. Importer of the Council of Ministers on 7 June 2018. Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the National Electronic Charging System in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No802-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 28 June 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the National Electronic Charging System in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 June 2018. Mr. Doncho Atanasov took part in the meeting of the Commission. He presented the bill on behalf of the importer. The Agreement provides for the Road Infrastructure Agency to use the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development's expertise for the successful implementation of the Project for the design, construction and introduction of the electronic system for the collection of fees for the use of the Republican Road Network. Pursuant to the Agreement, advisory services include quality control and assurance activities for the deployment of the electronic system, expert and technical assistance in the oversight and subsequent testing, analysis and determination of road charges and the introduction of the European electronic charging service, as well as technical and communication support for clarification to the stakeholders of the electronic charging system. In the course of the discussion, the MPs supported the bill, taking into account the need to assist the Road Infrastructure Agency in the implementation of the National Electronic Tolls Collection System. Mr. Doncho Atanasov answered specific questions asked by the members of the Commission regarding the previous actions and results in the construction of the electronic system for the collection of fees for the use of the Republican road network. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management with 15 votes, without object and 2 votes, the Abstention Committee proposed to the National Assembly a bill for ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the National Electronic Charging System in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, No 802-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for the Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency in Bulgaria, signed on 9 May 2018, No 802-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 June 2018. At a regular meeting held on 28 June 2018, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for the Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the National Electronic Charging System in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 9 May 2018, No 802-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 June 2018. The Agreement provides that the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development is to use the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development's expertise for the successful implementation of the Project "Design, construction and introduction of an electronic charging system for the use of the Republican Road Network on a distance to be covered by vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass of more than 3,5 tonnes (Tol) and based on time for passenger cars with a total technically permissible maximum mass of up to 3,5 tonnes (electronic screw). The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development Advisory Service in support of the Road Infrastructure Agency shall include the following activities for the successful management of the activities under the signed contract with the selected contractor: 1. quality control and quality assurance activities in the implementation of the electronic collection system for the use of the Republican road network; 2. expert and technical assistance in the processes of supervision and subsequent testing of the entire built electronic system; 3. analysis and determination of road charges and range of the network for the implementation of this activity will be respected European legislation in the field of road charging, as well as support for APIs in the introduction of the European Electronic Charging Service (EUEST) in Bulgaria with a view to ensuring interoperability; and 4. technical communication support to clarify to the public and stakeholders the presentation of the electronic road charging system. The International Bank for Reconstruction and Development has extensive experience in offering this type of service and is a reliable partner. The circumstances contained in the Agreement, signed on condition of subsequent ratification, require its ratification by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 14 votes in favour, without abstention and 4 votes, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft for ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the National Electronic Charging System in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 9 May 2018, No 802-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 June 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. I'm opening the debate. Statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for the Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the National Electronic Charging System in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development No 802-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 147 MPs: 105, against 36, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nenkov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u8	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u9	Negative vote, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u10	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against it for several reasons. First, this agreement will cost the Bulgarian budget 6 million. lv. Secondly, with its adoption, we state that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and, in particular, the...................... road infrastructure......................................................... they have no administrative capacity to administer and implement the system, provided that the state is prepared for more than three years for its implementation. Thirdly, this part of the Agreement is missing if we assume that the specialists from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development are the best in the world, to train our staff who have the opportunity to build it up after the introduction of the system, to develop and expand it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Lambev. Mr. Nenkov, come in for your procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u12	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. 80, para. The Law on the ratification of the Agreement on Rewarded Consulting Services for the Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the National Electronic Charging System in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development to be voted on at second reading in today's meeting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Please vote on this procedure. They voted 145 MPs: 102, against 39, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u14	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for the Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the National Electronic Charging System in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development A single member. Ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the National Electronic Charging System in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, signed on 9 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u15	I put to the second vote the Law on ratification of the Agreement on Rewarded Consulting Services for Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the National Electronic Charging System in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u16	They voted 145 MPs: for 103, against 36, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next point of the adopted programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR INTEGORATION OF PEOPLE WITH CONVERSIONS. Importers - Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. Next, a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u17	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, No 854-01-59, submitted by Svetlana Angelova, Albena Naydenova, Kalin Popovski, Julian Papashimov, Claudia Gancheva, Rumen Genov, Pavel Shopov, Ruslan Toshev, Ralitsa Dobreva, Galya Vasileva, Nikolay Sirakov and Dimitar Gechev on 29 June 2018. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 4 July 2018 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by: Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Eleonora Pachedzhieva, Director of the Department of Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Aids, Viktoria Tahova, Deputy Executive Director of the Social Assistance Agency, Snezana Malakova, Director of the Legal Directorate of the National Insurance Institute, Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, experts from the administration of the Ombudsman, representatives of the professional and employers' organizations, representatives of NGOs and people with disabilities, representatives of the protesting mothers of children with disabilities, Mrs. Zhivka Stoyanova, who has addressed the Supreme Administrative Court with a claim for annulment of texts of the Rules for the application of the Law for the implementation of the Law on Integration of Disabilities. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. According to the reasons of the bill, its preparation was imposed in relation to final Decisions No 7271 of 1 June 2018 and No 7706 of 11 June 2018 of the Supreme Administrative Court which repealed the provisions of art. 24, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 25, Art. Art. 26, Art. 27, para. 3 of the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Integration of Persons with Disabilities. Following the entry into force of the two decisions, it is necessary to synchronise the legislation in the area of the policy for the integration of people with disabilities. The bill provides for the repealed provisions of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Disabled Persons to be settled at the legal level by amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Disabled Persons. In essence, by Decision No 7271 of 1 June 2018 in administrative proceedings No 2858/2018 of the Supreme Administrative Court, a five-member Chamber, the provision of art. 27, para. 3 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities (the Rules) by dropping the requirement for the presentation of a document certifying the duration of the training as a basis for the payment of the supplement under art. 27, para. 1 of the Rules. The Court's reasoning states that the provisions in the Rules contradict the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, the Law on Legislative Acts and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. Article 27, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure lays down a condition not for granting the aid, but for its payment, therefore the requirement of art. 27, para. 3 may not be introduced by a sub-legal act after, pursuant to art. 42, para. 3 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities The Council of Ministers is competent to settle the issues related to the determination of the size, terms and conditions for granting, modification, suspension, termination and renewal of the supplement, but not for its repayment. Beyond that legal delegation and contrary to the requirements of the Law, the provision of art. 27, para. 3 of the Rules provide that the social integration supplement for training is to be paid after the submission of a document certifying the duration of the training. Decision No 7706/11 June 2018 in administrative proceedings No 4602/2018 of the Supreme Administrative Court, a five-member Chamber, left into force Decision No 1455/31 January 2018 in administrative proceedings No 10020/2016 on the inventory of the Supreme Administrative Court, which repealed the provisions of art. 24, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 25, Art. 26 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, which lays down the basis for the calculation of the monthly supplement for social integration, the guaranteed minimum income and the amount of monthly supplements for transport services and the use of information and telecommunications services. According to the court, binding the amount of the monthly supplement to the guaranteed minimum income is unlawful, as the leading criterion under the Law on the Integration of Disabilities is only the individual needs of disabled people. This results in uniformity of the amount of the additive and creates objective obstacles to ensuring social integration of disabled people. This is contrary to both the general principles enshrined in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Art. 28 of it, where access of disabled persons to social protection is indicated. In addition to the contradictions arising from the two decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court, it is necessary to synchronise the provisions of the Law on the Integration of Disabled Persons with the Rules on its Implementation, which refer to the procedure for issuing the order determining the limits of the targeted aid for the development, purchase or repair of aids, devices, facilities and medical devices, regulating that the limits of the targeted aid are determined and updated by order of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, in agreement with the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Health. The submitted bill provides for the procedure for the submission of a document certifying the duration of the training as a basis for the payment of the supplement under art. 27, para. 1 of the Rules implementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. The determination of the basis for the calculation of the monthly social integration supplement will also be introduced according to the guaranteed minimum income. The monthly social integration supplement for transport services of 15% of the guaranteed minimum income shall be maintained. The monthly supplement for the use of information and telecommunications services in the amount of 20% of the guaranteed minimum income is also maintained. In order to repeal the general provision of art. 24, para. 2 of the Rules, according to which the basis for determining the monthly supplement for social integration is the guaranteed minimum income determined by the Council of Ministers on the basis of art. 12, para. 3 of the Social Assistance Act, importers propose that other types of social integration supplements, namely balneotherapy supplements and/or rehabilitation services, diet nutrition and medicinal products and available information, should be arranged in the bill. Their dimensions will also be preserved. The importers have applied a partial preliminary impact assessment form to the bill. It shows that, as of 31 December 2017, monthly social integration supplements were provided on an average monthly basis to 500 016 disabled persons, of which 10 476 for children. As of May 2018, the number of disabled persons receiving the monthly add-on for social integration for transport services is 497 145 persons and 70 608 persons for information and telecommunications services. Currently, 89 persons receive a monthly add-on for social integration for training, 157 048 people have not exercised their right to receive the training supplement. The Commission received the opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the Agency for Social Assistance, the Agency for People with Disabilities, the Confederation of Labour, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria. Except for the latter, where proposals are made for new norms in terms of integration supplements, all others are supporting the Bill. The opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which was presented by Minister Biser Petkov, stresses that the proposed amendments to the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities will be settled by legal order and the negative consequences of Decisions No 7271 of 1 June 2018 and No 7706 of 11 June 2018 of the Supreme Administrative Court which repealed the provisions of art. 24, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 25, Art. Art. 26, Art. 27, para. 3 of the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Integration of Persons with Disabilities. In addition, the bill will rearrange the repealed provisions of the Rules of Procedure to the current law and at the same time synchronise the regulations in the area of the policy for the integration of people with disabilities. The Bill will also limit the risk of dropping people with permanent disabilities receiving monthly supplements for social integration, and better regulation of the requirements for social integration of disabled people and exercising their rights will be arranged. It is also important to ensure the continuity of monthly supplements received so far, and also to limit the risk of serious social tensions. The opinion of the Ombudsman Mrs. Maya Manolova and representatives of non-governmental organisations of people with disabilities is that the proposed bill will not ensure the rights of people with disabilities in terms of integration supplements, as they say these texts are contrary to the principles of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. They do not accept the assumption that this is a temporary solution found in order not to damage people with disabilities, not receiving their integration supplements. According to them, the correct solution is reforming the entire system of integration of people with disabilities, but they are pessimistic that the government will be able to carry it out. After the presentation of the Bill and the reasons for it, as well as the opinions of the interested institutions, there was a discussion in which the MPs Hasan Ademov, Georgi Gokov, Nikolay Sirakov, Milko Nedyalkov, Vessela Lecheva, Julian Papashimov, Kalin Popovski took part. Most of them are convinced that the bill takes action for urgent legislative regulation due to the created legal vacuum. The legislative change is entirely in the interest of the people with permanent disabilities who have submitted applications for a monthly supplement for social integration after the judicial decisions given, all the more so that according to the information of the Social Assistance Agency of 12 June 2018, about 11 000 applications for a monthly supplement for social integration on the repealed legal grounds have been submitted. Art. 25, Art. 26 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. Until the adoption of the legislative changes to these persons, orders will be issued for the suspension of proceedings under the Administrative Procedure Code. If the bill is adopted quickly, the integration social rights of nearly 500,000 of their beneficiaries will not be jeopardised. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 17 votes....... 1 vote............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, No 854-01-59, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u18	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Presentation of the bill by an importer. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u19	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The amendments proposed by the present Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities are in connection with two final decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 24, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 25, Art. Art. 26, Art. 27, para. 3 of the Rules for Implementation of the Law on Integration of Persons with Disabilities. In essence, by Decision No 7271 of 1 June 2018 in administrative case No 2858 of 2018 of the Supreme Administrative Court, a five-member Chamber annulled the provision of art. 27, para. 3 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, dropping the requirement for the presentation of a document certifying the duration of the training as a basis for the payment of the integration supplement for training under art. 27, para. 1 of the Rules implementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. Pursuant to this Article, the monthly training supplement of 20 per cent of the guaranteed minimum income is granted to persons with permanent reduced performance or with a certain type and degree of disability who need to acquire additional knowledge and skills, through different forms of training, outside those laid down in the general education system. This supplement cannot be used by persons who are trained in special schools and persons involved in training under the Employment Promotion Act. The condition which puts the contested by the court al. 3 of art. 27, is that the supplement is paid after submission of a document certifying the duration of the training. Due to the additional condition that the Rules of Procedure make the person submit a document on the duration of the training, the court finds that it should not, in fact, put such an additional condition in a sub-legal act. All circumstances must be taken into account in the decision to grant the additive, i.e. it is not normal to have a supplement granted which is not to be paid due to an additional condition for its payment. The requirement of art. 27, para. 3 may not be introduced by a regulatory regulation after, pursuant to art. 42, para. 3 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities The Council of Ministers is competent to settle the issues related to the determination of the size, terms and conditions for granting, modification, suspension, termination and renewal of the supplement, but not for its repayment. On these grounds, the court shall revoke the provision of art. 27, para. 3 of the Rules implementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and considers it unlawful. Under the second judgment, five members of the Supreme Administrative Court by Decision No 7706 of 11 June 2018 in administrative proceedings No 4602 of 2018 annulled the provisions of art. 24, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 25, Art. 26 of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, which lays down the basis for the calculation of the monthly supplement for social integration according to the guaranteed minimum income, the monthly supplement for social integration for transport services of 15% of the guaranteed minimum income and the monthly supplement for the use of information and telecommunications services of 20% of the guaranteed minimum income. According to the court, binding the size of the monthly integration supplement with the guaranteed minimum income is unlawful, as the leading criterion under the Law on Integration of Disabled Persons is only the individual needs of disabled people. This leads to uniformisation of the size of the integration supplement and creates objective obstacles to ensuring social integration of people with disabilities, and also contradicts both the general principles laid down in the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and art. 28 of it. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities aims to synchronise the regulations in the field of policies for the integration of people with disabilities. The proposal is that the provisions of the Rules on the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities should be repealed at the legal level by amending and supplementing the Law. The risk of dropping people with permanent disabilities receiving monthly social integration supplements for transport services and information and telecommunications services will be limited. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities provides that the procedure for the presentation of a document certifying the duration of the training is to be regulated as a basis for the payment of the supplement under art. 27, para. 1 of the Rules implementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. The definition of the basis for the calculation of the monthly social integration supplement will also be introduced according to the guaranteed minimum income, and for the monthly social integration supplement for transport services of 15% of the guaranteed minimum income the monthly supplement for the use of information and telecommunications services of 20% of the guaranteed minimum income, which is also maintained. In order to synchronise the regulations, we propose in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities to arrange for other types of social integration supplements, which are for balneotherapy and/or rehabilitation services, diet nutrition and medicinal products and available information, and their sizes are also preserved. As of 31 December 2017, monthly social integration supplements were provided on average to 500 016 disabled persons, of which 10 476 for children. As of May 2018, the number of disabled persons receiving the monthly add-on for social integration for transport services is 497 145 persons and 70 608 persons for information and telecommunications services. The amendment to the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities should be initiated without delay in view of the fact that the repealed provisions affect the socially significant rights and interests of a wide range of vulnerable people who have received integration supplements so far and, after the entry into force of the decision of the SAC, they should be immediately terminated as there is no legal basis for their repayment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Dear Members of Parliament, you have the floor for speeches on the presented bill. Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In order not to get excited about this House, I will, at the very beginning of my speech, before I begin to speak on the ground, declare that I will vote on the House and support the changes that are being made to the draft amendments to the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, only I cannot afford not to tell you what you are doing and what you are subject to criticism for. Why do these changes take place? What is apparent from the motives of the importers and what is clear from the presentation of the bill? These changes are imposed because of the situation created following final judgments of the Court of Justice of a five-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court on the appeal of a natural person, making it impossible to pay the so-called integration supplements which are one of the main instruments for social integration of disabled people. This Decision repeals four provisions of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 24, para. 2 This concerns the basis for calculating the additive, which is the guaranteed minimum income; art. 25 concerns integration supplements for transport and telecommunication; art. 26 concerns integration supplements for information services and at the end of Art. 26 27, para. 3 concerning integration supplements for training. The Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities states that these integration supplements are provided to persons to complement their income and to cover the additional costs they have. And the annulment of these provisions essentially and practically means that the payment of integration supplements will be interrupted, which in turn will cause serious social tension against the background of the already unenviable situation of people with disabilities in Bulgaria. Such supplements, which are basic payments under this law, are obtained from about 500,000 disabled people, and the expenditure in the budget for them is around 152 million. lv. So what's the offer now? In order to prevent the interruption of the payment of the granted supplements, changes must be made by mid-July at the latest to enable the Social Assistance Directorate to prepare the relevant documentation and supplements to be paid within the regulated legal deadline. And the essence of the proposal is to settle matters in the Law in a similar way as are in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, so as not to give the Court grounds to believe that the Rules supplement the Law or that the Rules contradict fundamental provisions in the Law. In other words, the repealed provisions of the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities should be arranged at the legal level by amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. This is an interesting but in quotes an interesting approach and is justified only and only if it is a short-term measure that does not aim to solve the problem, but to reduce or rather control the public tension in order to ensure the continuity of the payment of integration supplements. You can justify this change, these proposals and the fact that there is a working group currently preparing a new Law for people with disabilities, which makes a possible such measure and these amendments temporary. There's no excuse from any other point of view. The state is responsible for public relations for people with disabilities and has no right to make legislation per piece, legislation to fill holes. He has no right to act as a fire brigade because fire extinguishing plays a major positive role, but the consequences for the site are generally unsuccessful, not only from the fire, but also from the activities of the fire department. As if by these actions we show that we will neglect and circumvent the Court's judgment that, since the guiding criterion in the Law is individual needs, it is improper and unlawful as a basis for determining the additives in the Rules of Implementation of the Law to introduce the calculation of these additives on a quantity such as the guaranteed minimum income and thus not individualise those additives but, in practice, uniformise them. In other words, the Bulgarian court tells us that binding the additives to the guaranteed minimum income as a percentage of it leads to its unification and not differentiation of these additives. The importers do not comply with this and in an elegant way surround it. I will not comment that, when adopting this law, the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities has introduced a principle for granting integration supplements according to individual needs and the issue of differentiation and individualization has decided it as an opportunity for each person with a certain type and degree of disability............................................................................. And as is evident from practice, most people with disabilities receive at least three, and in most cases two integration supplements, the total being a sum of individual and reaching the amount of payment twenty percent of the guaranteed minimum income. But if there is a misunderstanding in the Bulgarian court as to the logic of this law, then logic is not correct and must change or change the principle. However, changing the principle will be an unfortunate action, extremely unfortunate, of course, because people with disabilities at all their protests put the individualization of support and the provision of social services according to individual needs. I know we're in the middle of the budget year and the resource is estimated, but the other thing I want to focus on is the amount of these integration supplements. I said the total add-on is mass of 15 BGN. It is true that, against the backdrop of the large number of people who receive it, about 500,000 people form a serious amount in the budget of 152 million. BGN, but let's make an account: in the size of the integration supplement for transport services of 11,24 BGN. at the price of the ticket of the city transport 1.60 in Sofia and on average around 1 BGN. In other cities, how many times can this public transport be used? Or for a taxi at a mile, how many times can a taxi be used? That is why I mention it, because now we are not going to solve the issue of the size of the additives, but for the next budget year we need to change these inadequate amounts, which, by the way, are due to the commitment of the additives to the guaranteed minimum income and its inadequately low size. I said all this, not to pick on importers at the moment, but rather to draw attention to those who are preparing the new Law on Disabilities, to the working group, in order to place texts that govern in an unambiguous, adequate, stable and time-resistant manner this financial support that people with disabilities receive in order to be linked to their individual needs. The other one's gonna be a pull-over. And lastly, I will vote for the House not because you are doing something legitimate, but so that we do not leave those people who rely on this amount and it is vital to them without it. I remain in the hope of future synchronization of the regulations in the area of policies for the integration of people with disabilities and let them get what our Bulgarian society owes to these people, and let us not forget the principle that the maturity of a society is judged by its attitude towards people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u22	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? Mr. Panchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am pleased with what I hear from colleagues both on the right and on the left, because as a parent of a child who is in need and who knows this problem, and because the issue concerns more than 500 000 Bulgarian citizens, I wish today the House would accept at first reading the proposal, which makes Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs to vote on an addition to the Law on the Integration of People with Disabilities, not only because it will reduce the tension in the country, but because indeed these people need this decision, which will enable them to get these supplements that they have received regularly. It is good that the issue is not politicized, because we have seen for weeks now that there are people gathering on the streets and wanting a better, better solution to the problems of people who need help from the state. I wish that next week, before the end, at the second reading, we would vote on this law, and autumn, when we return to the next session, we would have the opportunity to see together the new idea of the Law on the Integration of Disabled People, the Law on Social Services, in a package, and the Law, which recognised the colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria. So we could really answer the problems in our society, the problems that people are experiencing in need, and thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u25	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Lord Panchev, I have listened carefully to your speech, but unfortunately, I cannot agree with you. With this law we will hardly do anything except stop the integration supplements, the amount of which is about 35 I don't think this law will solve any problems for these people. Because really, one person with a hundred percent damage takes about 250 pounds. pension, with the supplements. The poverty threshold in Bulgaria is 321 BGN. This means that about 800,000 or 500,000 people in Bulgaria are automatically poor. We have said it many times in this House that the policy of a country is defined by the attitude towards people with disabilities. These mothers outside will continue to sit, and this law will really not solve their problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u26	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Another line? I won't. Dear Mr. Panchev, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Hristov, of course I don't want to get into an argument with you. What I said is that in this way we will not allow 500 and more thousands of Bulgarian citizens not to receive their supplements. And I don't think it's right for them to interrupt. In my speech, I said that at the beginning of the next session we are obliged to work and it is good to work in a package under the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and the Law on Social Services, as well as the Law which you recognized for personal assistance. I believe that this will solve many of the problems, and they are really serious. I allow myself to tell you that I have known them well for 15 years and people really need a working, serious law to enable them both to live in a disadvantaged situation with their problems and to look for a way out of the poverty in which they are located and living. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Next statement, Dr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u29	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to, first of all, start with what it's really about. It is about the fact that the Supreme Administrative Court, the five-member Chamber, has repealed by its decision of 1 June 2018, which shall enter into force as of 15 June this year, a text in the Rules implementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. And another ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court, the five-member Chamber, of 11 June, which shall enter into force on 22 June, which shall repeal Articles 24, para. 2, 25 and 26. It's about different types of integration supplements. What's the problem? The problem is that by the end of last year 500 016 people with permanent disabilities receive the so-called integration supplements. Here it is said that integration supplements are not able to cover the needs of disabled people. Of course that is true, but the purpose of integration supplements is not to provide income for survival, the aim is to give them an opportunity to integrate into society, to enable them to complement their incomes from work or income from replacement income from work, so-called disability pensions. In this sense, what are the importers offering now? The importers of this project propose that the repealed texts of the Rules be entered into the main body of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. As Minister Biser Petkov said at the Commission meeting, it is a temporary measure, because the philosophy of the current law and the proposed measures differs from the philosophy of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, and a new framework is therefore needed. The legislator has decided with this approach to enable people with disabilities to receive integration supplements. But there is something very important, my fellow Members, that there is no stopping 500,000 integration supplements. There is no such thing, firstly, because the decisions of the Supreme Administrative Court come into force after their publication in the State Gazette, respectively, for the individual decisions of 15 June and 22 June. That is to say, all those who have submitted applications to the Department of Social Assistance and Social Assessment are suspended because there is no legal basis for them to receive integration supplements. That's 11,000 people. To all others who have been granted the integration supplements in the old order, there is no problem for them until their expert decisions of TELK have expired and until the order of the Regional Director of the Department of Social Assistance to obtain integration supplements has expired. That is, according to information from the Agency for Social Assistance, 11,000 people who have submitted applications for integration supplements are currently under suspension. All the others up to 500 thousand, if these texts are not adopted, may fall into a situation in which the expert decision of TELK will expire, respectively the order of the regional director to obtain integration supplements, and since there are no texts in the Rules, and if they are not in the Law, there will be no legal basis for them to receive these integration supplements. That is why these proposals are being made. Now, to the more important question of whether they solve the problems of people with disabilities or not, it is important to note that this measure is temporary until the National Assembly adopts the new bill for people with disabilities prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. When's that gonna happen? Minister Petkov said the bill will be ready by the end of July. Given the fact that there are relevant procedures for public discussion, coordination procedures, it will take at least two months, which means that at the earliest in September or October, we can rely on the new law. Therefore, one approach is this: the problem of being solved in the main body of the Law. The other approach is a transitional provision to say that these texts act until the end of the year to reassure those who believe that there is tension at the moment, there is mistrust of the interdepartmental working group in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, that they cannot cope by the end of the month with this project. These are the possible options. I am convinced that if the proposals of fellow importers of this bill are adopted within a few days with one working group, we will be able to propose, at second reading, clear texts which will enable people to receive integration supplements in the order in which they are now proposed and will not interrupt the receipt of the integration supplements for those proceedings which are prior to the entry into force of the decision of the Supreme Administrative Court. I hope that we will not create additional problems for people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u30	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines to Dr. Ademov? I can't see. We continue with the speeches. There are no other speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, No 854 01-59, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. They voted 133 MPs: 131, against 2, no abstentions. It's accepted at first reading. Procedure Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u31	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly suggest that the time between first and second reading of the bill for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities should be reduced to three days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova to reduce the time between the first and second votes of three days. 125 MPs voted: 122, against 2, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the accepted Work Programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDE. Importers are Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 13 June 2018. Adopted in the first vote on 27 June 2018. You have the floor, Dr. Ademov, to present the Report to the Commission for a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 854-01-48, submitted by Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs, adopted on the first vote on 27 June 2018. Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u34	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. 110 MPs voted: 110, no opposition and no abstentions. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u35	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with Article 1. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: syndical organizations and employers' organisations shall acquire the quality of a legal entity following their registration in a register of trade union and employers' organisations at the respective district court at their headquarters. 2. In para. 2 the words........................................................................................................... 1.................................................................................. 3. A new para is being created. 3: The entries shall be made under the terms and conditions of Chapter fifty-fifth of the Civil Procedure Code. 4. They're creating an al. 4, 5 and 6: The following circumstances shall be entered in the register of trade unions and employers' organisations: 1. the type and name of the organisation; 2. the seat and address; 3. the statutes of the organization; 4. the authorities, the names of the members of the management body, the names and positions of the persons representing the organisation; 5. the termination of the organisation; 6. conversion; 7. names, names respectively, and address of liquidators; 8. the deletion of the organization. (5) The changes in the circumstances of para. 4. (6) The circumstances and acts under para. 4 shall be declared for entry, respectively, for a declaration in the register of trade union and employers' organisations to the relevant district court within one month of the date of their occurrence, respectively, of their change. 5. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u36	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 1. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u37	"Transitional provision." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Under § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with Article 2. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... The trade unions and employers' organisations established until the entry into force of this Act retain their capacity as a legal person without being registered in the register of trade unions and employers' organisations at the relevant district court of their registered office.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u38	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any speeches? I won't. I'll put two texts to the vote. The first text is the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The second text is the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 2. The two texts shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. The bill was passed at second reading. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I am making a proposal that the deadline for changes between first and second readings on the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control with importers Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs should be reduced to five days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chukolov. I don't see any objectionable statements. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Desislav Chukolov to reduce the five-day period between the two readings of the quoted bill. They voted 102 MPs: 82, Against 9, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTANCE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEEDING CODEX. The representatives of the People's Representative Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u41	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, yesterday's parliamentary time was over when we discussed a key text from the big project we were looking at... [[Part of the MPs come out of the room, another group stand up and talk.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u42	Excuse me, Mr. Zarkov. I ask the Members of the National Assembly to take their seats or leave the Chamber to allow Mr. Zarkov to complete his speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u43	We are talking about a change in the amount of fees required to initiate cassation proceedings before the Supreme Administrative Court. The fee, which currently is BGN 5 is offered. for individuals to become 70, and the one that is 75 leva. For legal entities, to become 370. It is also proposed that fees be determined in relation to the material interest in the case, which is a precedent in administrative justice. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that art. 126 of the Administrative Procedure Code states: "The judicial proceedings shall begin at the request of a person concerned or of a prosecutor. No provision is made and no property value can be foreseen for the initiation of proceedings. Yes, there may be fees, but they can only make one sense.. to provide the necessary resources for the functioning of the courts, whose service is due to the Bulgarian citizens, it itself is free. Fees may be motivated only by the costs necessary to provide justice. However, the reasoning that we heard at both first reading and second reading and in the Legal Committee talked about a measure that would disarm the Supreme Administrative Court, that is, a measure that would lead to fewer cases before it. Such a motive is constitutionally inadmissible. Moreover, the way the fees are determined should not be applied in a law. Indeed, importers had tried to justify the way they got to this size. We were given a table which took into account two indicators. In general, one was the minimum wage and the other was the inflation that has been in the years since 2006. These indicators are randomly selected. Obviously, they are not cost-oriented and have no bearing on the money they need to ensure the functioning of the court. Moreover, they are treacherous, they change every year, every year! That is why the normal order for determining fees is the tariff plan to be drawn up by the Council of Ministers. My esteemed colleagues Milkov and Bojankov yesterday reminded that if there is a need to raise the fees, and this may actually be the case, then you should go in that order. Another fellow Member, the respected colleague Mitev, reminded that this has been tried to do over the years, but has failed because the Supreme Administrative Court has cancelled the decrees of the Council of Ministers. Let the honourable Council of Ministers take a lawful and appropriate decision to resolve this problem, not to anchor it in the Law. We are now trying to do precisely this: to avoid the possibility of interested parties attacking the possible new fee, binding it into a law whose control can only be subject to the Constitutional Court. However, if this text is adopted, we will consider very carefully the opportunity to take advantage of our right and refer to the Constitutional Court on this and other texts. Even more perplexing is the idea of setting a fee in relation to the material interest in this production, where unlike the civil process, it is difficult to determine the price of the claim. Why? We have received many opinions from institutions that appear in administrative cases. The most convincing was that of the Commission for Protection of Competition. How did they question the material interest in a case that attacked their decision imposing a penalty? The property penalty, the fine imposed on a cartel, is not in itself the material interest in the case. The great interest in the case before the administrative court is the correct enforcement of the law, and in the Constitutional Court is the law dispute. It's hard to calculate this material interest there. It is no coincidence that the proposal we are considering in the law itself provides for cases where material interest cannot be calculated. A great discussion has also developed in society on these issues and it is unambiguous: everyone opposes the planned methodology for fees. Dear Mr. Chairman, I have 30 seconds due to the irregularities in this Chamber, if I may, of course. This is designed as a measure to stop citizens from attacking unlawful decisions in their view before the Supreme Administrative Court. We've heard a few times here that we have to protect our courts. Yes, we have to protect them, but not from the citizens, we have to protect them from political pressure, we have to protect them from shortages, we have to protect them from the various tensions that are pouring into this system. What we shouldn't protect them from is from citizens who seek justice before them. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u44	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. The line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u45	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, I'm taking a line because you complained that you wouldn't have enough time. I would like to express a different opinion and argue why the proportional fee in administrative proceedings is not a precedent. The cost-effectiveness in administrative production also has a different argumentation and motivation. With regard to constitutional intolerance, I will also argue and explain the two criteria that are in the financial analyses, the minimum wage and inflation. I'll explain that in a statement that you can give me a line on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line, Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Zarkov, I do not agree with one main point of your speech that justice, i.e. access to cassation, is almost a free service. Even now, even with the minimum size, this is not a free service. If I misunderstand you, correct me, but I have come to this conclusion from what you said. As for the minimum size and ability or inability of the Council of Ministers, keep in mind that, in fact, there is no change in fees over 10 years. Absolutely all of them, the Ministry of Justice and the Supreme Administrative Court and the administrative judges in the administrative courts in the country are consensual, they have reached a consensus that there should be an increase in fees. There should be, because at least the salaries costs of the magistrates, the salaries of the judicial officers, if you will, for supplies, if you want, even for the electrical energy of the office technique used has increased. They can't be the same, even using the precisely quoted cost-benefit criterion. And as for the fact that it is argued as a motive to have an impeding effect with regard to the complainant, I absolutely agree that this cannot be a motive, we differ here with colleague Kirilov. I do not believe that the amount of fees should be and should be determined only to restrict access to contest administrative acts. They really must comply with the socio-economic conditions, but also in no case should they be used as the main motive for blocking the right to protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u48	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line? I won't. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, thank you for the opportunity to further develop these. I call on you in your speech to explain why, after there have been objective criteria and you have been guided by them, however, between first and second reading the amounts have decreased? Therefore, you either had some objective request because you thought it was necessary or not because you accepted proposals that reduced those amounts on the one hand. Regarding Mr. Mitev's line. I claim justice is free. It's right, and it's free. It is no coincidence that when you win the case, you are also entitled to expenses, part of which is the fee that you should have paid in advance. And this fee cannot be an obstacle to the law, it cannot play the role of property value. I remind you that we have heard in the Commission that these changes are expected to reduce the workload of the court by 50%. If this isn't a blockage, I don't know what to call it! The fees are particularly high and especially the attitude towards legal persons, to organisations that, for one reason or another, may be interested in these cases. The true motives are clear and we agree that they are unacceptable. The problem of the resource needed for quality justice is a very difficult problem and I am ready to discuss it in detail. I don't blame this or the previous Council of Ministers. I guess there's a problem and he needs to be dealt with. At least this is not the method, because agree that in a year, two, three of these fees will have to be changed in one direction or another and we will also witness the clumsy legal procedure. You yourselves and your group started this debate with such an attitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Indeed, this debate may be the closest to the perception of our constituents, without saying that they in one way or another prefer the subject of this debate. In any case, I would call for objectivity in the assessment of the arguments, without overloading the argument with attempts to subjective distortion or to influence the audience in one direction or another. I'll start my speech maybe backwards. I did not manage to hear from the other opposition speakers yesterday, but I know their argument on who determines the exact amount of fees.... whether it is the lawmaker in the Law or the Council of Ministers, which accepts tariffs. Mr. Zarkov gave one of the arguments of the Committee on Legal Affairs, for the second or third time, to propose to the Chamber to make explicit arrangements for the determination of fees. That's the kind of case we already had in the GPC, that's the kind of case we had in ZUSIF. I would like to stress here that one who can do the bigger one can do the smaller one. Since the legislator has the right to delegate this power to the Council of Ministers, he may exercise it himself. It is okay for the legislator himself to refer to the amount of a specific fee. Mr. Zarkov himself explained why so far the attempts of all the ministerial councils that have accepted a tariff for fees in administrative proceedings have met one or another form of revision by the Supreme Administrative Court itself. Well, the court corrects or cancels them, so in this case it is even greater the responsibility of the legislator to resolve the issue of the definition of fees. It was said that setting fees was a precedent. Like I said, no, it's not a precedent. We had a very long debate on the European Fund Management Act. Our legislative decision then showed that it is effective and that it is favourable to all countries.. both private entities, which are in one way or another bound by the contracts and the management of these funds and the authorities that manage these funds. A very serious ambiguity, a very serious disproportion, has been overcome. Do taxes have to be tied up? Yeah, you should. As a principle in all other cases, you must. The point is that your argument is that in access to administrative justice there should not have been such a bond because the fee would have gained a huge amount and indeed it did. I am sure that an administrative case at which will be an instance costs our country thousands of leva. I'm not going to guess how much, because we didn't calculate it explicitly. The state access fee is extremely minimal. I agree with the principle that there can be no absolute identity between the state fee and the value of the process. I object to the logic that colleague Zarkov developed that production was free of charge. No, Mr. Zarkov, the production is paid and the costs are borne by the losing party. Yes, initially it matters who will start the production and will bear the costs initially, but the losing party takes the negative result. A lot of arguments I couldn't work out in front of you, but five minutes is five minutes. Thank you. PRESENT EMIL CHRISTOV: Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. A line? Mr. Zarkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u52	Dear Mr. Kirilov, we must give you back the gesture, give you the three minutes of the joke aside, of course. Fees are only part of the finances needed to operate our judicial system. She has her own budget for a reason under the Constitution. We can't expect the fees to cover the entire cost. What we say is that it has nothing to do with your proposal and costs at all, this proposal has another purpose. It is to limit access to the court with the idea that this court is overworked. This objective, this motive cannot go through the fees, all the more so that, together with this Administrative Procedure Code, we are doing enough to unload the overly burdened courts and to further burden those who are not loaded. This method is unnecessary and is conceptually incorrect. This is what we are trying to convince you, and we were about to do it in the Commission. We still have a little time to change our minds. It is not that the National Assembly has no right to do what you propose, it is that it is not right to do so.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u53	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Another line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Zarkov, thank you for the opportunity to complete my exhibition. I will answer this: your argument that we are limiting access to justice has forced us to explain that this is not the case. In the end, it has come to almost nothing, as this is all we are talking about: access to justice, access to justice, access to justice, and we are explaining ourselves on this issue, remains the conviction and feeling in people, in journalists, in the audience that this is our main goal. No, that's not our primary objective! Our main goal was to create proportionality and relevance in the various institutions in administrative proceedings. Our main goal, as you pointed out, is not to overload the Supreme Court in administrative proceedings. Yes, if this measure eliminates or restricts those applicants who have an enormous desire to release 10 "20" complaints a month on which they decide, yes, that would be one, I would say: a relatively positive effect. We have in no way put in place and have no priority goal limiting access to the cassation instance. You rightly pointed out that these are fees only for the cassation instance, that is, this is the last, the highest instance, when we have already had administrative appeal in administrative proceedings, we have had a judicial appeal before a first instance court, that is, the court has already ruled on a court decision once. This is, figuratively speaking, perhaps wrong, the highest court-martialing extraordinarily high judges, and in a plural composition of three or five judges, to consider the lawsuit. Each Party should take into account whether the substance of the dispute and the complexity have such legal value that they should actually burden the Supreme Court. You yourself pleaded under both the other code and under this code that the main work of the Supreme Judges is on the application of law, on the uniformisation of law enforcement, and on interpretation. This doesn't work with overload. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Popov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, some time ago he is still sitting on the agenda in the society. We have spoken that the fees for justice in the civil process, I am talking about a 4% fee, when it is determined material interest, is one of the highest in Europe. In practice, it blocks the possibility of a large part of the Bulgarian population, given the economic and social situation of the state, given the poverty, given the lack of employment, it limits the possibility that a very large part of the citizens have access to justice in the civil process. Here in the administrative process you do practically the same. There is usually a high public interest in these cases in the administrative process. When there is a high public interest and it is determined, believe me, there is a great material interest on the basis of which you want to determine these fees. You recorded BGN 1,700. for organizations - maximum 0.8% but not more than BGN 1700 Many of the organizations that protect public interest in the administrative process and production are non-profit legal entities. They do not carry out economic activity, business activity where they can obtain these fees to go before the Supreme Administrative Court and defend their interests there. On the one hand, you increase the fees, on the other, reduce the legal fee to 50% below the minimum, which twice strikes access to quality justice in practice. If it is possible to determine the attorney's fee on one side of the court, I do not think that any lawyer will do his best to protect the interests of his client. Secondly, you are doing the proceedings before the Supreme Administrative Court in fact closed. Yes, with the possibility of opening the meeting, but at the request of either Party. You introduce three things in a bill that really block citizens' ability to protect the public interest before a court. There is no way we can support these proposals. Believe it, BGN 1700. there are too many in view of the situation in Bulgaria - social, economic, even demographic, I would mention. Mr. Chairman, if you accept that I am entering the Rules of Procedure, I propose in para. 3 of art. 227a the figure of BGN 1700 to be replaced by BGN 200. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u57	Thank you, Mr. Popov. A line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Popov, I cannot agree with your arguments, nor with your proposal for editing in para. 3 to change the number 1700 by 200 and I'll explain why. You yourself said and directed the debate to non-profit organisations, which, you see, did not have any funds to pay the state fee. You are obviously aware, however, that such organisations practice the so-called procedural racketeering in relation to very serious infrastructure projects in many cases, that is, an infrastructure project, which is sometimes for hundreds of millions, is stopped by paying a minimum state fee. So what? The one who will stop for years such a project will be realized for years the risk on the roads in Bulgaria or in the infrastructure, he has no 1700 BGN. to pay a government fee? Well, at least he'll collect it from his founders' contributions. This process after one or two or three years, because we were looking at an environmental report, if you remember, how many years of investment projects are slowing down for EIA's appeal, and anyway, in three years, the court will rule. We're presuming that the complaint is justified, aren't we? If the complaint is justified, the 1700 BGN in question will be recovered. for a government fee. Look how disproportionately we compare public interest and how unilaterally we reason to distort the consequences! Once again, the limit, first of all, the proportion, I would call it extremely symbolic. I understand if you had said 0.8 to do it 0.3, but to correct the limit that we corrected three times and put it at BGN 1,700 for interest over five million?! Over five million!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u59	Zero one and eight...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u60	Yeah, the limit is 1,700, and for over 10 million, it's BGN 4,500. Well, that's a shame. I'd say it's with pennies to sabotage state and public interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u61	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Mitev, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u62	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Popov, I would not worry exactly about these NGOs, which will be subject to proportionate fees and precisely to these proceedings. Believe me, they have enough funding, some of them from overseas foundations. They'll be fine. Don't worry about them! I don't have any worries about them. They can pay much more than BGN 1700. a fee or more than 4,500 thousand. lv. [[Applause from OP and GERB.]] I wouldn't worry about them. I'd like to draw attention to something else. You say you're blocking access to justice. Let's go back and remind ourselves a little bit of the lawsuit in administrative justice. In practice, the dispute itself with regard to the contested administrative act is fully developed in the first instance. That's where forensics is assigned. There we present all the evidence we have on the unlawful administrative procedure, and there we keep the fees, we do not raise them. I think there is no question that the fees in this phase, in this stage of production, are absolutely available. I would like to hear more about your opinion on the other fees where we made a proposal to reduce. The other thing I would like to hear from you is the answer to the question: Do you think that the current amount of fees is adequate to the costs that are being incurred in order to administer a cassation case to the Supreme Administrative Court? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u63	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Third line, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u64	Dear Mr. Popov, I disagree with changing the rates because I believe that they do not belong in the Law. Thank you, however, for your speech, because it became clear that importers not only want to recode access to justice, but they know exactly who they are doing it to and why they are doing it. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u65	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Mr. Popov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u66	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In line with the lines. Dear colleague Kirilov, you said that some organizations and organizations are practically racketeering, racketeering through their rights. This, dear Mr. Kirilov, is not called racketeering, but is called rights in a legal parliamentary republic and everyone has the opportunity to implement these rights in a rule of law. There's really nothing to add here. You said why these fees were increased. This is precisely why you have to stop these organizations or citizens from having access to justice. That's why you're raising their fees. It, you said it here, as they say, Achik-achik. I'd like to ask you: if three families file a case about their water pollution, how much would the fee be, how much would the material interest be, how would you raise that money? You're not gonna make it, believe me, in these conditions! Regarding the line of colleague Mitev. Dear colleague, the Supreme Administrative Court is not a market, nor has justice been created to generate profit. It has quite other functions, goals and tasks, not to win or balance at zero. [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, it can be said that the current fees to the Supreme Administrative Court, to the cassation complaints, could be corrected. You asked me if they were adequate. They could be corrected, but what you are proposing right now is absolutely inadequate and does not meet even some basic constitutional requirements. Access to justice every Bulgarian citizen has it. Well, how can he have it when you're practically blocking it? You don't give him employment, you don't give him work, you don't give him adequate European income, but the fees, you see, will be European! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Even the fees are not European, honourable Members, because in Europe the fees do not have that amount. People there have access to justice, unlike here. [[Noise and lines.]] Exactly what you're trying to do. You're doing it in Citizen's, and now you're doing it in Administrative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u67	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Any other speeches? Mr. Milkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Kirilov, you have called for us to be objective in the analysis and not to be subjective. I will stick to this advice and be extremely objective. There were examples in the legislation in GPC and ZUSIF, you pointed out, for such a practice, an indication of the fees in a law or code. You're asking us to reason, to draw arguments from the practice, it's called........................................................................................ No, that's what you usually do, and that's not right! Because the Law on Regulatory Acts, and this is an important issue that colleagues need to understand, the law regulates lasting public relations! It is not right in law to indicate the amount in levs of a fee. Here we do it in a code that is called upon to regulate the matter in administrative justice, in the issuing of administrative acts and in administrative justice, that is, it is not a place at all to indicate specific levs. What was the reason? There was a tariff, but it was contested. By questioning the tariff, you can't change it?! Well, you can't change it because you don't follow the order to change that tariff! Indeed, fees must be increased, but this must be done objectively and not in a code or in a law. I ask a question: how does the administrative case registered by a natural person cost less than the administrative case in the same matter registered by a legal person? How is the value of justice calculated here that was not free? Okay, it's not free, but why is a case filed by a legal person, an association, a trading company more expensive? Here you can draw only and only arguments from your presumptions that the company was richer, that the issues were more expensive, but objectively looking at the case itself, in nothing should be considered cheaper by a natural person. In order for there to be a losing country that you are talking about, there must be sides, there must be participants. When you believe that in administrative justice as a number of cases will reduce by 50 per cent, there will be no winning and losing parties, because simply the parties will decrease as an objective number. Here, the fees and the question of access to justice have a constitutional dimension, because in administrative justice, the institutions, a priori, have one less. Moreover, with this bill, you, with more than 15 texts, are further limiting the institutionality of special laws. Special laws on which two instances could have been appealed are intended to become one, and that is why the issue of access to justice is extremely important. These people will feel it very quickly on their backs if these norms are adopted. We're unloading you. What about you, unloading you, burdening citizens and organizations, because an unlucky justice in time, an unlucky justice, where is the cargo left? And the burden that the court is called upon to bear by resolving the legal disputes before it will eventually remain in the citizens and in the organizations, because the unresolved legal dispute is a problem for them that they will continue to bear. You were legally extra. I've never heard of anything like that or read that you're a legal extra. It will, indeed, become an expensive legal extra, which will be touched by an increasing number of people, perhaps and will not be touched, because the meetings will be closed down in principle, and it will indeed become a legal extra, and yet we will be reading about this legal extra, and it will begin to be written. And as a conclusion, in terms of fees. For me they are: first, certain voluntaristic, second, unfair. Why are they voluntaristic? Because objectively for this size, which the Members of the United patriots point to for their size, there is no objective data. There were for the first ones who were taller, and now they are proposed to decrease. There's no justification. It wasn't free! Well, tell me how much it's worth, and that's how you determine the fee! So they're voluntaristically defined! They're unfair. Because, as I told you, with nothing a lawsuit aroused by a legal person is more expensive than a case for a natural person. Stop procedural racketeering with other legal and constitutional means! Not with this mechanical technique, increasing the fees, and in a code! Thank you. We will not support the text. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u69	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. The line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Milkov, you well explained a lot of the things we discussed and debated in both the Legal Commission and each other, but you did not ask the main question, which I think is a logical and philosophical challenge to those who will vote for the increase in fees and those who have submitted it. How will these honourable ladies and gentlemen explain to the Bulgarian citizens that this is in their favour? You should have just asked them! It's a challenge for me, and I'm very curious to see how they explain it this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u71	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I asked for a reply, on many of the things I do not agree with my esteemed colleague Dr. Milkov, to say briefly only the following: firstly, the fees are not determined voluntaristic, but are defined in the current, last proposal, minimalistic. Minimalistic! This is the third version of the reduction compared to the main proposal. With regard to fees, we have made twice a financial justification so that no one has looked in the sky and made up suggestions for fees. I absolutely do not agree with you making a commitment and logical, and suggesting as a perception that, you see, the meetings are becoming closed and expensive. You all agree and do not deny that in four words any of the parties to the administrative process the sitting becomes open. These words vary, but their shortest version is: I want an open session and I demand an open session. So, in three words, they can claim both the defendant and the complainant and the prosecutor and the court. So please don't be scared. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We will see that we are alive and healthy to accept this proposal, let us experience it in practice................................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u73	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Bojankov, third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u74	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Milkov, in your statement you ask why the court cancels the increase in fees. Naturally, because they are unlawful and this is the same court for which the fees have been made. That is, the court itself rejects the increase in its own fees, of course, because they are unlawful, because in Bulgaria the fee must comply with a simple principle. Then you say and ask the question: why is the fee for legal persons one and for physical persons another? Because the logic is: business can pay for them. The employers can't pay so much. It's an absolutely non-descript criterion! This would also fall in court if we had not applied something else to which in your speech you very well paid attention, and it is the fixing of the fees not in a regulation, not in a tariff, but in a law, so that Bulgarian citizens and Bulgarian employers would not appeal them again and they would not fall in court. In other words, you have given the answer because it is non-executive and continues to be non-executive, it is in absolute sync with most of the fees in Bulgaria, which have no connection with reality and are not fair. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u75	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. Dr. Milkov, come in, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u76	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Quickly on the lines. The main question is: how do we explain to people that it is in their favor? When you limit the number of cases by 50 percent in the Supreme Administrative Court, when you raise the amounts for state fees, when you change the principle of open court, which has acted even in Roman law, when all citizens can, should and should see the people in the court being sued, and turn it in basically indoors, I cannot explain it to them. Indeed, another law to which we should perhaps give a chance to see how it will work, but this does not come into the way I think it should be legislated. Minimalistically, not voluntaristically, for me, this was a waterfall from a taxi, and I said it yesterday. The calculations of the fees initially proposed, after which the bargaining in the Legal Committee, in order to support this provision, led to these amounts. I don't think I'm scaring people, I say my opinion as a person who worked this thing just a few months ago, and I believe that the possibility of opening the sitting in any case leads to citizens asking lawyers to be in the Supreme Administrative Court, which is ultimately in the interest of law. The possibility that the closed session can be opened in principle can also be challenged because, in frequent cases, in the Supreme Administrative Court, lawyers who have not participated in the preparation of complaints and meetings are much after the complaint has ever been filed. With regard to the fact that the charges actually in tariffs have been cancelled so far, I said it clearly, the charges have not been legally determined. And in my opinion, if the same charges were legally indicated, in a tariff, flexiblely, they would not have been cancelled. And that is the order that should be applied in legislation and not in a code to define levs. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u77	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With a view to progressing in time, the issue of fees was discussed yesterday, today continued, I propose that we call off the discussion and proceed to a vote. Otherwise, we could continue this discussion and return to the Roman administration, where fees have also been paid. To Bertolt Brecht we can go back to the Caucasian chalk circle, where the judge comes and his first word is: "Pay! " We can talk for a long time. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. A reverse opinion? You have the floor, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u80	I propose that the debates continue as much as it needs, because the fees concern every Bulgarian citizen. [[Noise and lines.]] Obviously, for the government and for all who sit on my right and against me, the fees that we will charge every Bulgarian citizen are not so important, we have talked enough, although in some countries for years they have adopted such bills, and for us a parliamentary day is a lot.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u81	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. They voted 122 MPs: 84, against 33, abstention 5. The offer is accepted. Let's move on. You have the floor, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. I appeal to you as you have just violated the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly. The colleague Kirilov, during the time during which parliamentary control was to be initiated, at 11.06.07., made this procedural proposal and you put it to the vote. You should have suspended the meeting with regard to the bill under consideration and moved on to parliamentary control. Instead, it is now 11:00 p.m., you have, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, admitted this procedure, which I believe is strictly violating the Rules of Compliance that you must follow. That is why I am paying attention to you and I am proposing that the vote be cancelled, which has just been made in order to comply with the Rules and get into parliamentary control. Let the debates and discussions on this important law for the Bulgarians continue next week. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u83	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Kirilov, please come back for your opinion. [[Relations between President Emil Hristov and MP Danail Kirilov, away from the microphones.]] Thank you for understanding, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u84	Colleagues! Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. There are no new requests for the period 29 June 2018. " 5 July 2018" Written answers from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MP Radostin Tanev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska Zhekova; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva on a question from the National Representative Todor Bajchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Boshkov. Parliamentary control supplied colleagues will be the first to respond to Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. He will answer a question from MP Tasco Ermenkov about a decision of the European Commission concerning large combustion plants. Before that, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! There are MPs among us who are voting counters in the plenary and, as there are, I call on you, Madam President, first to invite the MPs in the Chamber, but, secondly, to invite the leader of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens for the European Development of Bulgaria. [[GERB noise and lines]] So it's nice to hear them, not just count votes and votes. This morning, the leader of the parliamentary majority group is registering and not participating in the votes, so call on him to come and listen to the other MPs here, from the stand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u86	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. [[Noise and lines.]] Just to respond to Mr. Chenchev, Mr. Tsvetanov is currently at a round table, perhaps with your fellow MPs, on the presentation of the Law on Fighting Football Hulking. He's in the National Assembly building. Please come in for an affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u87	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Tomorrow in Sofia will be held the summit of the Heads of State or Government of the countries of the Initiative for Cooperation between China and the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, more popular as The Bulgarian Socialist Party from the very beginning has a positive attitude towards this format of cooperation and it was the BSP-backed government for the first time in 2014 that formally requested Bulgaria to host such a meeting. This multilateral meeting is also an occasion for the bilateral meetings of Chinese Prime Minister Li Kutzian, who has been in Sofia since yesterday. Cooperation between Bulgaria and China has a strong foundation. Bulgaria is the second country in the world to recognise the People's Republic of China. In the years after 1989, these relations were going through various difficulties, but we should note that the Bulgarian Socialist Party throughout the whole period, especially in the worst period until the end of the 1990s, maintained a strong political relationship with the ruling party in China, and thus preserved relations between the two countries. Our partners value that. Thank you for and GERB appreciates it. In parallel to China's growing economic and political power, a number of Central and Eastern European countries have managed to create working models for interaction, propose and begin the realization of large sites, attract serious investments in parallel to create strong political relations with China. Bulgaria has fallen far behind this process and in the last ten years this lag has become more and more visible. However, the basis of cooperation is trust that partners know and can define their interests, that commitments are being implemented and that there is a well-established policy direction, that the desire for cooperation is real and content is sought, not posture. That is why the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is again urging the ruling party to clearly define its attitude towards China and to categorically distinguish itself from the statements of the chairman of the parliamentary group and vice-president of the party GERB Tsvetan Tsvetanov that, I quote: Russia and China are one of the main threats to peace and security. We understand that there may be differences in a party on certain issues. We understand when the President of the Party and the Prime Minister stop legislation through the media, and when the Vice-President and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group releases it again through the media. We also understand that between the senior and junior partners there are insurmountable differences, including foreign policy and security issues, and that the only thing that blinds this hypocritical coalition is the benefits of power. However, we cannot accept when substantial foreign policy contradictions are demonstrated at the tops of the ruling party, which can lead to serious negative consequences for prospects and opportunities to conduct an adequate foreign economic policy towards countries such as Russia and China. How did it turn out that during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union Boyko Borisov visits Moscow, apologize, beg for renewed cooperation on major infrastructure projects, and his deputy, on whom the life of the government depends, declared Russia a major threat to peace and security? If there's no response, who can we trust? What is the logic of the government inviting China to finance and build key infrastructure sites, finally demonstrating a more pragmatic approach, while at the same time the parliamentary group through its chairman just days before the Chinese Prime Minister's visit declared China a major threat to peace and stability? If there is no reaction, who should we trust again? We address both GERB and the ruling coalition: we live in a complicated time of both threats and many opportunities. Don't miss out on the possibilities because of internal contradictions! Build confidence in Bulgaria, do not waste it! Do not allow party selfishness and vague foreign interests to interfere with the prospects of relations with countries such as Russia and China. It is not too late for Bulgaria to take advantage of its geostrategic situation, to be the door between the East and the West and to guarantee its national interests for decades to come. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. We have a statement from a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u89	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank all the MPs who participated in the discussion on the forthcoming legislative measures that the parliamentary majority is taking. I would like to thank my colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party who participated in the discussions on sports hooliganism and for ensuring peace and security in connection with the upcoming launch of the new football season. I would like to thank them because when lawmakers work in the interests of society, they can achieve the relevant political consensus, but at the last moment a political decision has been made by the Bulgarian Socialist Party not to support this bill. I would just like to say that the discussion of this bill began at the initiative of the President of the Sports Commission and enables, with urgent legislative measures, to improve, to ensure the security of football events. What is extremely important is that with the introduction of forced administrative measures, it will be possible for the police chiefs of regional governments to actually be able to take action to limit and prevent fans from attending sporting events that could endanger the lives and health of all citizens. We are also talking here about video surveillance, we are also talking about the customization of tickets that will be bought for sports events. I am saying these things at the beginning of my declaration so that I can disprove the BSP colleagues who, just minutes ago, as is usual, always manipulative, speculative, can provide information and say: "Where is Tsvetanov? What does he do? I can tell you, colleagues, that since the morning that I came to Parliament, I have exercised my right to vote on the bills that were voted in plenary and then joined the initiative taken by the President of the Sports Commission. BSP does not support the Law so far, at least this has been declared by Slavcho Atanasov, but I am convinced that within the framework of greater constructiveness we will be able to achieve this political consensus. As for what I have said, Mr Vigenin, who I have always said has been very active in any political event related to international response, I can congratulate him on his principled position on the Euro-Atlantic orientation of the country. The coming out and making these false claims just minutes ago by a pro-Euro-Atlantic thinker and the fact that he speaks in this way makes sense. I'd like to make some clarification. First of all, I would like to ask my colleagues from BSP: is what you are doing right now a crisis PR player to avoid another explanation for Tasco Ermenkov and for Crimea, about the elections that were held in Russia? [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear colleagues of the BSP, I would like to hear your position on the annexation of Crimea, I would like to hear your position on the economic sanctions against Russia. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u90	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u91	I would like to hear the position that the President of the Republic of Bulgaria gave at the Warsaw Conference, at which he participates with the Presidents of South East Europe, and you can make the comparison with what I have said, not a threat, but a potential threat. And let's see what was the declaration that the President of the Republic of Bulgaria signed! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear colleagues from BSP, I understand your crisis situation, as because of the internal contradictions you have in BSP, and because MPs decide to do business and you cannot explain this to the public, why are you criticizing the government that the business environment in Bulgaria is contaminated?! There is no way to explain the departure of Spas Panchev, there is no way to explain the departure of the second MP who is representative of the Agricultural Union, because you have applied all possible options to bring him back to you, but with such force actions there is no way to obtain this democracy that you hold that you have it. [[Loud noise and lines on the left.]] And what you have in your party right now, even if you submit a vote of no confidence, you cannot explain to your voters where your motives were, where your speakers were, who were supposed to fill your parliamentary time as an opposition that tabled a vote of no confidence. We do not want a vote of no confidence in this government, we support this government, and you, who tabled a vote of no confidence, had absolutely no motives or anything to be said clearly and categorically. As for the event that took place in the Bulgarian Parliament, this was the 82nd meeting of the European Parliament, of the Congress of the United States. You know that together with the co-chairs from the European Parliament and the United States, we have given a joint press conference. If you have followed the entire press conference carefully, you will see what was the position of our Euro-Atlantic partners on this topic. And if you have also asked Mr. Vigenin, who was present at this meeting, he can also explain to you what the comments were there. I can tell you that we have been extremely diligent in being diplomats so that we can actually talk about what the power of the European Union is in and about the strong link that must be between the European Union and the United States. Colleagues from BSP, just to assure you that neither the electoral nor the strong and democratic European community want to have anything to do with your positions that you have expressed them both in election campaigns and with what you have spoken all these months and have planted this hatred and opposition. That's your style. I would not like to enter into this position, in this role, because I am the chairman of the largest parliamentary group, I represent the parliamentary majority, and I can tell you that in many of the legislative changes that are being made, we also receive your support. Many of the MPs are deliberately forced not to support a good legislative initiative just so that you can accumulate some image of this confrontation that the aims of the Bulgarian Parliament should have. Today I would like to state the following: as Chairman of the largest parliamentary group, as Vice-President of the Political Party GERB we always have a dialogue with the President of the Political Party GERB Boyko Borisov and similar suggestions for contradictions between the parliamentary group, Prime Minister Borisov, who is also Chairman of the Political Party GERB, are untenable. This isn't BSP! [[Applause from GERB.]] In BSP you have your problem and what we are currently observing are the speakers Bojankov, Zarkov, but we also want to hear Merdjanov, we also want to hear those democratic MPs who are expressing their opinion, but do not dare to say it in public. So, colleagues, do not take care of the micro climate in the Political Party GERB! It is at an extremely good level, at an extreme height and you can only and only try to achieve at least 50% of this environment of dialogue, of respect and respect! I can assure you that we are also supporting the forum at this time Let me say, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP, and just to tell you that in all these years we have had official meetings with the Chinese country, we have also had party meetings with the Chinese country, and what is currently being done in Bulgaria for the first time, I don't know how many years, the Prime Minister of China's So I'm not going into explanatory mode with you, it doesn't suit me. Let us remember what President Radev's position was during the election campaign. It coincides entirely with your policy, which you do, but when the President of the country Rumen Radev had to go to the Council of Leaders, what did he do? He supported SETA, supported the continuation of economic sanctions against Russia, and I can tell you that we are both thinking the same with the prime minister and thinking the same with the leaders of Europe and with the leaders of developed democratic societies in the European Union. Just days ago, the Council of Leaders, attended by Prime Minister Borisov, continued the economic sanctions against Russia. Dear colleagues of the BSP, for you the annexation of Crimea, compliance with international law is not a priority, because you can never apply it even to your governments, because we know that when you rule, you take us away from the European Union! You even violated... And think only of the South Stream, because when you talk about Russia, South Stream is not successful because you wanted to change the standards in Europe and violate the Third Energy Project. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] We know how you did office legislation, how you suggested that it be adopted here in the Bulgarian Parliament. Colleagues of BSP, think of your parliamentary group, your party! And, Mrs. Ninova, I wish you success in this difficult battle you are fighting in your parliamentary group and in your political party! Thank you! [[Applause on the right.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u92	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u93	But the GERB party has a chairman. This is Mr. Borisov. In order to respond to both tolerance and accuracy, however, I hope that we will work together on the important tasks and priorities of the country! Thank you. [[Applause on the right. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u94	Thank you. The way you're holding Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking you not to make a double standard when you're in session. The other day you said the exact opposite that you were in the same position. Mr. Tsvetanov has delayed time considerably, you are silent. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And please tell him that he is not the chairman of the largest parliamentary group. That's not true, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u96	Put the map down! Where's your card?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u97	The largest parliamentary group in the world is the Chinese parliamentary group. [[(Laughter and excitement in the BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies from GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u98	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. You don't have a map.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u99	And if he wants to hear Mr. Merdjanov, we want to hear...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u100	You don't have a map! Where's your card? Where's the map? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u101	The Chinese are on the Eagle Bridge, you're talking to me about football hooliganism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u102	Why didn't you put your card on, Mr. Velkov? Technically, it's not Mr. Velkov's fault. Personal explanation, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Karayancheva. I couldn't help but get a personal explanation, since Mr. Tsvetanov said I was speaking untruths or something in that sense. I didn't say anything that wasn't true. The quote is from the media, it was a briefing to journalists, so where, what somewhere happened, does not justify the fact that these words were spoken. I do not object to Mr. Tsvetanov talking longer, because the more he talks, the better it is for us and shows how untenable his thesis is, because all the issues in the style of Mr. Tsvetanov why are you beating the Negroes? And if we can accept your statement as a withdrawal of those words, well, if they are not withdrawn, we are still waiting for a reaction. And we do not take care of the micro-climate in your parliamentary group because we care so much, but because it is the ruling parliamentary group and the relations within your party depends on how the state is managed. And since these contradictions are not invented by us, you are demonstrating them more and more publicly, it is a matter of concern when there is a problem between the prime minister and the chairman of the ruling parliamentary group. We are putting it because it is a concern for the state and not so much what will happen to GERB. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We're continuing with parliamentary control. [[Replication by National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov.]] What's in the way of conduct, Mr. Ivanov? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u105	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Ms. Karayancheva, we are very concerned about how here, by this tribune, a million Bulgarian citizens are allowed to be offended. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Tsvetanov in his statements and in his statements insulted a million Bulgarian citizens...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u106	How, exactly, Mr. Ivanov, did I not hear?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u107	...who put 80 people here. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The problems in the ruling coalition should not be transferred from the sick head to the healthy because the problems with Crimea should be sought in their own parliamentary group and Mr. Tsvetanov today should perhaps owe an explanation to the guests from China for what he has explained that they are enemies.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u108	What do you have to say to me? Don't address Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u109	Ms. Karayancheva, don't let 80 people and one million Bulgarian citizens be insulted by this tribune [[GERB's loud noise and lines]] Because there are problems in this room on the right, not on the left.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u110	I didn't let anyone be offended, Mr. Ivanov! I followed very well the statements of Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Vigenin. I'm asking you not to blame me in this way. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] Tell me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u111	To you, Mrs. Karayancheva. This House has already taken away the opposition's word several times. Once again, this thing is being done. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]] The violations made by the management, of course, reflect on the work of this Parliament. It is insane in this country, where this majority rules, to say such things from this tribune, because the consequences of this government are outside. They're in the tent, they scream and scream every day. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] People are dying, and you're here looking for and explaining which MP where he migrated and how he migrated.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u112	What's my...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u113	Do not allow Mrs. Karayancheva to speak and insult the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. We continue with parliamentary control. [[Reply by National Representative Cornelia Ninova.]] What do you want, Mrs. Ninova, I don't understand? [[Replication by National Representative Cornelia Ninova. Noise and lines by GERB.]] Here's a personal explanation. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u115	Don't mention me if you don't want me to take the floor. When you mention me, you'll have an answer, and he's like this. I thank Mr. Tsvetanov for his wishes to be able to deal with the problems in our group. I assure you we will succeed in the same way that is principled and will be from beginning to end. Anyone who wants a collaboration and a major coalition with GERB from the parliamentary group of BSP is free to choose their way. BSP's political decision is not to have one. So let us wish you a happy Mr. Spas Panchev, who put the question before us like this: he believes that we do not have the right policy towards GERB and we should be together with you. Congratulations! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the same way, we will solve our problems in the parliamentary group, however, that is not the issue. What Mr. Tsvetanov spoke of and mentioned me is much greater than the questions in your group or in our group. This is for the geostrategic, foreign policy interest of Bulgaria. Not for the first time, Mr. Tsvetanov, you have serious differences with the Prime Minister, i.e. with the official foreign policy line of Bulgaria. Everyone here remembers the drama of the case, and I also remember your behavior inside Mrs. Karayancheva's office. At the same time, the prime minister took a position in which he said: we will not expel diplomats, while you here, out of the stands, urged Parliament to decide to expel them. This isn't a game of work. It is now happening for the second time in terms of China and Russia. When the Prime Minister is host to the "16+1" when this dictates the national interest of Bulgaria and is an opportunity for the whole of Europe, you pro-Europeans in quotes, I am already putting one on you, minimizing this issue and this process with an absolutely irresponsible statement that China and Russia are a threat or a potential threat to security. Such statements are a threat to the national security of Bulgaria and Europe, not the event today. The event today is an opportunity and I call on all of us to make it a perspective for both Bulgaria and Europe and to be a link between the East and the West in the interests of our peoples. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u116	Personal explanation Mr. Tsvetanov, then Mr. Panchev wants a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u117	Madam President, first of all, I'd like to say that... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u118	Personal explanation of how it is given?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u119	In the manner of conducting the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u120	Procedure in the manner of conduct. Personal explanation of a statement, I think that violated the regulations. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mrs. Ninova, since you said another untruth in the Chamber...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u121	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u122	...I'll remind you of the case.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u123	To me, Mr. Tsvetanov, be it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u124	You, Madam President, attended this Chairmanial Council and discussed the topic of Scripal. Then BSP's position was.. they wanted us to present the debate here in plenary. We refused to discuss this subject in plenary. Isn't that right? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u125	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u126	In the manner of holding it, please don't let it happen. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u127	Please be quiet! Mr. Panchev wants the word in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u128	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is a personal explanation, not a way to conduct it. I was mentioned by Mrs. Ninova. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u129	He has no right. A personal explanation of a personal explanation is impossible. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u130	He's got a point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u131	Turn to me, Mr. Panchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u132	It's the way it's supposed to be. Madam President, honourable Members! I think that in this Chamber, when the rights of some of the MPs are violated, you, Madam President, should take the floor away, because I have not been involved in the debate, I have been affected. I was offended because I was given words that I didn't say. I therefore wish to clarify myself and ask you, in the future, when even an independent MP is affected, to safeguard his rights, as I am protecting the rights of the voters who elected me, and I am opposed to the lies that speak in this Chamber. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u133	Thank you, Mr. Panchev. Another way of doing it, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u134	Mrs. President, explain to Mrs. Ninova that we are neither at a BSP convention nor are we on Buzludzha to clarify here BSP's views regarding coalition policy. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u135	Mr. Bikov, to me, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u136	Whether in BSP they want to rule with GERB is their problem. A decision at GERB congress was made that GERB does not want to rule with BSP for objective reasons. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u137	What's the remark to me? To me, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u138	Secondly, we are not on the Coalition Council of BSP to clarify our relations in "Technoimpex" where Mr. Panchev was fired by the SDS and Mrs. Nino was appointed. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u139	Please, Mr. Bikov! Mr. Bikov, to me, I get it. What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u140	Third, Madam President, explain to BSP...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u141	What am I supposed to do?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u142	...that the only moments when the Chinese Prime Minister visits Bulgaria are moments when he controls the right and not the left. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u143	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Colleagues, I suggest we calm down and allow Mr. Ermenkov to ask the question to Minister Neno Dimov. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you are, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u144	Madam President, I would like to draw your attention to the fact that what Mr. Panchev said just now is not true. That's why there's protocol, and there's tape.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u145	Why isn't he answering?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u146	Because Mr. Panchev said that BSP...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u147	Explain it in the parliamentary group. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u148	What's that? What about me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u149	And I would like to point out to you that this does not correspond to the truth, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u150	I'll check it out on the record. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u151	Mr. Panchev said that we are not critical enough for GERB. That was Mr. Panchev's statement publicly. That we are too critical of GERB. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kirilov? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. I propose then that we end these procedures so that we can start answering the questions that are coming to the ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u153	Mrs. Chairman!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u154	Only to me, Mr. Kirilov, no political speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u155	Yes, then I won't address the MPs. [[Radio.]] I asked for the floor because it becomes urgent and absolutely imperative that a procedural decision be taken by this Parliament in which to make an explicit regulation when the floor for a personal explanation is given and when the floor is given in the manner of conduct. You raised this issue at the Chairman's Council, the issue was discussed. I believe that the parliamentary groups have their suggestions on how to regulate even more detail. And now this issue is regulated in the Staff Regulations, but it is evident that it is being abused on duty. There can be four procedures in the manner of conduct that are actually political speeches and stupid addresses, and I apologize for the expression to the lead. We can't get our party problems out of the stands when the debate isn't political, it's procedural. I appeal! The rules also contain criminal provisions. Yes, I understand your desire to be extremely moderate and democratic, but until criminal procedures are activated, there will be no order and discipline in plenary. [[Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria."]] I say again: and now I can offer you concrete proposals on both procedures. If you insist, we will do it in writing within the working group. Please, in any abuse, punishment! Every time you abuse me, you'll be punished! [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u156	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. [[Noise, lines, shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u157	It's also in favor of the opposition, because you're going to have... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u158	Colleagues, please! Things just get out of hand. [[Relation of lines between the MPs Danail Kirilov, Philip Popov and Ivan Valentinov.]] Please, guys! What's happening right now in this room is just funny. [[National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov wants the floor in the manner of conduct.]] The way you're leading it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u159	Punish him if it's not in the way of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u160	In the manner of conduct, but only in the manner of keeping... personally towards me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u161	Madam President, honourable Members! It is unacceptable from the stands to speak and allow people to speak of censorship. You just took the floor as MP. Mr. Kirilov is currently proposing that the MPs be censored here, openly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u162	Where's your procedure? Sit down! [[Noise, lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u163	Mr. Ivanov! [[Executing noise and lines.]] Mr. Ivanov, let's calm the passions a little bit. Mr. Kirilov speaks very correctly, according to the regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u164	The imposition of rules to limit opposition to be able to make procedural statements is yet another step towards jamming the opposition. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Please, Madam President, once you have stopped the broadcast on the main channel, the National Television, through the regulations, you have stopped the blitzcontrol, now you want to stop the procedures. That's crossing the line now! I am amazed that I have heard here from the President of the Legal Committee a proposal to limit the possibility of making procedures by the Members of the National Assembly. [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Please do not allow such a thing even to be discussed at the Presidential Council, let alone in the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u165	I didn't hear that from Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Kirilov very correctly explained the reason for his proposal, because procedures in the manner of conduct are being abused. That was his statement. You're welcome, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u166	Thank you, Madam President. You're right that in the end it really got funny, but it got funny because you let this thing go. You, your majority of GERB, have practically made statements during procedural terms and tricks. Here my colleague Kirilov agreed with him, expressed his disagreement, but at the same time again made a statement. He didn't turn to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u167	What did you say?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u168	He did not address you because the procedure in the manner of conduct means disagreement with the manner of conduct. I did not hear from him what he disagreed with regarding your conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u169	I don't agree that he's not punishing you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u170	There was no such thing. [[Comments from GERB. Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u171	Thank you, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u172	One more thing. You should have paid attention to Mr. Kirilov that there is also an opinion of the Legal Council regarding personal explanations and you are familiar with him. You correctly gave a personal explanation to our parliamentary group, but then the avalanche, which followed from the right side of GERB...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u173	It was the way it was led.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u174	...it was in the manner of conduct, but it had nothing to do with the manner of conduct and you didn't interrupt for a second or warn the speakers to turn to you. They just made speeches, unlike the double archin you apply to our parliamentary group. Colleague Ivanov is constantly interrupting him, he cannot make a sentence without interrupting him. [[Comments from GERB. Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u175	Thank you. Colleagues, we are continuing with parliamentary control. I give the floor to the MP Mr. Ermenkov to ask his question about a decision of the European Commission concerning large combustion plants. [[Conversation aside from the microphones between MP Tasco Ermenkov and Chairman Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u176	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! I hope, Madam President, that what we have just spoken will be fulfilled after all.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u177	If anyone comes to the Chairman's Council, we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u178	Mr. Minister, the question I'm asking you could have been written, but I'm asking it from the parliamentary tribune because I'm taking advantage of the case that we have a direct broadcast on television. The question I raise concerns the fate of tens of thousands of families involved in coal mining and electricity production from coal plants. You know the European Commission's decision to conclude on the best technologies in large combustion plants, you know what its consequences are, you know that there is an opinion that when electricity prices are disproportionate to the benefits of nature, you have the opportunity to ask for an exception in compliance with environmental protection requirements. In early April, information was published on the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water about the consent of the European Commission to continue the work of thermal power plants under current legislation. You mentioned that the same information mentions that on 28 April there will be a meeting of the Committee under art. 75 of Directive 2010/75/EU on industrial emissions and the adoption of new conclusions on the best available technologies for large combustion plants. Unfortunately, after this date, there is no information that will appease people, what is happening in this industry. I ask you very much, Minister, precisely because of the concerns of all these families to answer my question: at what stage is the procedure for examining the requests and required documents from these thermal power plants and what results do you expect from this examination? When could these results be available? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. For an answer, the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, thank you for not writing but oral, because this really concerns a very serious circle of people and it is good to be heard. The Environmental Protection Act defines the Environment Executive Agency as a competent authority for the procedures for issuing, reviewing and updating complex permits. The implementation of all necessary measures to comply with the new requirements for installations should be carried out within four years of the publication of the European Commission Decision. The regulatory deadline for procedures for issuing, reviewing and updating complex permits shall be three months from the submission of the documentation, which shall meet the content requirements and include a one-month period for public access where a derogation from the emission levels of harmful substances in the environment included in the best available techniques conclusions is requested. The request for derogations should be justified by an analysis of the costs and benefits confirming that the application of the Best Available Techniques Decision is linked to disproportionate costs to environmental benefits due to one of the three possibilities of the geographical location of the plant, the characteristics of the environment in the area or the technical characteristics of the installation. Notwithstanding this analysis under the regulations, permits should be subject to such emission limits which do not lead to significant pollution of the environment but to a high degree of conservation. At present, the procedures for reviewing the complex permits for the thermal plants of the complex Maritsa East and for which you specifically ask me are at the stage of review and evaluation of the submitted documentation prior to their launch. As a result of the review carried out, where necessary, the Agency will request additional information from the operators after the submission and approval of which will also begin the final consideration of the matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u181	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, please, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u182	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for clarifying the procedure, but I still want the minister in the form of a duplicate to tell us what the prospects for these plants are. The debate, the examination, the approval, the final perception, the signing, the submission and so on are things that are procedural, but hardly soothe those who work in the mines, those who work in the power stations, hardly give them a clear answer whether they will work in the future, or will we have to close them in 2021 because they do not meet the requirements, or because the state, as is known, has no opportunity to invest, and the investors themselves who are there to achieve these new requirements, which, in some cases, are even technically impossible at the moment with the available technologies. Mr. Minister, I'm going to ask you in the back anyway, with clear words to those who are working, to explain to them, to calm them down and tell them what you think, what the future of our electricity is in the coal and coal parts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u183	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u184	You're right, Mr. Ermenkov. However, I cannot resolve the question.. It is clear to you that there is no way. What I can say very clearly: both in the directive and in the Bulgarian legislation of these three parameters, on which I have spoken, that is, one of the three is sufficient. What we already know from the four operators in the Maritsa East is that they have all three. So this is a very serious prerequisite. I say again: I cannot say one thing or another now, because this is the work of experts, but the directive itself allows for one of three, and here we have, I think, all three. I don't want to lie to you from the stand, I'm not sure if it was all of them, but I have this from a memory that's a very good prerequisite. We are also aware of what this represents for the Bulgarian energy and for the Bulgarian economy. However, let's let the experts work. I will open the clamp for the first time in Bulgaria and there is almost no experience in Europe for this type of derogation. I mean, this is a lot of pioneering. Perhaps as time progresses, we will gain more experience and our experts will gain more confidence, but that is one reason why there is nothing more that I can say. I stress: not one of the three, but on the three of us at the moment we have reason, so I am an optimist.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u185	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u186	I'm gonna have to ask for more feedback.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u187	Yeah, I'll try to get more feedback. I agree that from April until now... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u188	Here you go, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u189	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct to draw your attention to the answers that Mr. Dimov has given me. The answer to me not only does there not have any specifics, but there is also a disrespect shown, to put it mildly, to search for information on a website. The questions that the MPs ask are not some personal whim, but are questions and topics put by the people who sent us here. Through you, Madam President, I would like to draw the attention of Mr. Dimov's administration to show a little more respect and specific to the questions we are asking. I want to return this answer through you, because it cannot in any way be of any use to me or to the people who sent me. [[Returns answer.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u190	Thank you. I'll pass it on to Mr. Dimov so he can review it again. Question from the National Representative Manol Genov concerning changes to the Ordinance on end-of-life motor vehicles adopted by Decree of the Council of Ministers, No 11/2013. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u191	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! On the website of the Ministry of Environment and Water for Public Discussion were published changes and new rates of a certain type of products which are subject to the collection of the so-called product fee. What are they dictated from, and what are the long - term goals, what will be the effect of them in the foreseeable future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u192	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. For an answer, the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u193	Thank you, Madam President. [[The Minister takes the returned question from the President from the MP Stanislav Vladimirov.]] I'd like to address Mr. Vladimirov, if you'll allow me. I'm gonna go through this very carefully. The last thing I ever wanted was some kind of disrespect. I'll check the case carefully, and I'll contact you myself. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, at present the Republic of Bulgaria has built a successful system for separate collection, recycling and recovery of widespread waste, including out-of-use motor vehicles. The country successfully fulfils the objectives of collecting, recycling and recovery of all streams of widespread waste. During this month, the new legislative package was finally adopted, which sets new high recycling targets. The proposed changes aim to optimize the reserve of recyclable quantities of waste, as well as improve the efficiency of management systems. Until now, heavy goods and passenger vehicles have been outside the scope of the Ordinance and have therefore remained away from the specific control carried out in respect of widespread waste and in particular the collection, assembly of out-of-use motor vehicles of light categories for which the objectives are met. This creates two negative trends. First, carrying out non-regulated and non-environment-conscious activities in the assembly of end-of-life motor vehicles in category N-2, N-3, M-2 and M-3 including abandonment, unregulated accumulation of waste, oil burning, plastic burning, leakage of dangerous liquids, cooling liquids, françons from air conditioning installations and others. Secondly, due to the lack of regulatory targets for a high degree of recycling, as in categories M-1 and N-1 there is only interest in the content of the metal. Therefore, the rest of these vehicles are not recycled and significant quantities of recyclable raw materials are lost. For the purpose of environmentally sound management of end-of-life motor vehicles of categories M-2, M-3, N-2 and N-3. Not only environmentally friendly recycling as a whole is guaranteed, but also the high level of recycling exceeding the pure market interest below the values of the main materials and components. The proposed target is 96% recovery and 94% recycling of one out-of-use motor vehicle. The results aimed at the amendments to the Ordinance are to prevent the disposal of hazardous substances, the uncontrolled treatment of components and parts of those categories above 3,5 tonnes [[the President signals that time has run out]] which is associated with a particularly high risk to health and the environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u194	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u195	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I had asked a similar question on this subject in writing, too, Mr. Minister, and now, you are quoting the Law to me. Both I and any fellow MP here can bother to read the Law. The question is: this lifting, apart from all the goals you have listed, the utilisation rate, the recycling rate, who is it hitting? Once again, the cargo in this Ordinance will be aimed at collecting money from the poorest people. Who buys a car over 15 years, over 10 years? People who don't have the financial opportunity to do it will. I think that these targets -- specifically with product charges for cars -- should be linked even more to keeping the air clean. I didn't hear that in the answer. You said: total environmental impact. After all, one of the main air pollutants, besides domestic solid fuel consumers, are cars. All these emissions that are emitted by them ultimately reduce air cleanliness and I do not see any commitment that all these product charges will be aimed at achieving one such objective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u196	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u197	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Genov, the purpose of the product fee is to recover the waste and the high degree of recycling. It is not directed directly at the purity of the atmospheric air. I specifically mentioned.. and this is the indirect effect on the clean air, on the uncontrolled and uncontrolled burning of oils, plastics and so on, which is one of the problems which, the less controlled, the more these waste products are actually possible to be burned, and this is definitely harmful to the environment. In fact, when we talk about light motor vehicles that have been covered so far, there is a very clear direction where these oils are going and a way of tracking them to prevent burning them. On the other hand, when we talk about those over 3.5 tonnes that have not been covered by the Directive, they could have been dumped anywhere, including being burned. Here the effect on the protection of air cleanness is indirect, but it is very significant. If we prevent people from reaching the homes of substances that are harmful to the air from being burned, this is one of the steps. When we talk about air quality, there is a package of measures that we apply, and that is one of many elements, not the only one. Once again, the product charge is a one-off. It is collected only at first registration and aims at the end of the life cycle to have a higher degree of recycling and re-use, which is the goal. It cannot be made in a purely market mechanism, because metal obviously has its uses. Almost all other parts must be supported in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u198	Thank you, dear Minister. Next is the third question by the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the activity and operation of a mobile combustion plant, which is used to dispose of animal by-products and products derived from them, established on the territory of the village of Kaloyanovets, Stara Zagora municipality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u199	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, the question I have described is a very extensive and thorough one. I hope you've met him, because two minutes of parliamentary time won't be enough for me to repeat it the same way I wrote it. In general, in the parliamentary question, it is about an installation which is popular with the "incinerator" that is intended for the disposal of animal by-products and products derived from them. The truth is that behind this name lies the destruction of dead and killed animals, and this in any case worries people who live around such installations. This installation is located in my opinion and according to the people in the village within the village. Even though it's at one end, they're worried about it and they're sending signals. I tried to make talks there with many institutions and all of them assure you that the incinerators are reporting to the Bulgarian Food Agency and not to the environment and water, but still checks are being carried out by your institution and at the moment I was visiting there, in the village of reception, there were two employees and very kindly provided me with information about the fact that no violations were detected. Tensions among these 1000 people in the village remain and they believe that this is dangerous for life. As I progress in time, I'll just ask the questions. Is it risky in terms of compliance with environmental legislation and directly on the protection of the environment and the lives of people, the activity of the installation in question? What will be the expression of prevention, current and subsequent control of its activities? How many signals of irregularities in the activity of this installation have been received by the territorial structure of the Ministry of Environment and Water "Stara Zagora"? How many checks were carried out on signals sent outside them? What are the results of these checks? How could signals be issued outside the working hours of your department and do you ensure that the conditions and procedures under which the installation operates exclude risks to people and the environment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u200	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u201	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Gokov! The notification of an investment proposal submitted in 2017 by the contracting entity "EKO BG" Ltd. indicates that when necessary, including in cases of emergency cases of control and prevention, epidemics and diseases in animal diseases, the use of an installation installed mobile platform on call at premises in the territory of the whole country to carry out activities for the disposal of animal carcasses on site in establishments for the achievement of national veterinary medical purposes for the control and prevention of epidemics and animal diseases and other cases established in the Act on Veterinary Medicinal Activities is envisaged. The proposal is not related to the implementation of construction activities or the construction of installations or schemes for the installation and operation of the facility. The use of water is not necessary for the technological process. The use of natural resources during the operation of the mobile installation is not envisaged. The company is informed that according to the specific characteristics of the proposed proposals the same does not correspond to the definition of an investment proposal within the meaning of the Environmental Protection Act. For waste generated by the operation of the mobile combustion plant for animal carcasses, it is necessary to establish a worksheet for the classification by the Director of each Regional Environmental and Water Inspection, on whose territory the waste is formed. The transmission and acceptance of such waste may only be carried out on the basis of a written contract with a person holding the document concerned. In this regard, on 21 December 2017 RIEW "Stara Zagora" has established working lists for the classification of waste to be generated in the mobile installation of In connection with registered signals concerning the installation in the village of Kaloyanovets, municipality of Stara Zagora, the following checks were carried out by RIEW Stara Zagora: First, on 18 April 2018, a smoke pollution signal and unpleasant smells from the activity of the mobile installation came in. The inspection was carried out jointly with representatives of the Regional Food Safety Directorate "Stara Zagora." It is found that in the former farmyard is located and works mobile installation for the complete burning of animal by-products. During the verification of the operating installation, no unpleasant smells and smoke from the leaking device were detected. Second, on 26 June 2018 in RIEW, Stara Zagora received a letter from the district administration, which sent a complaint to the Inspectorate and Regional Directorate for Food Safety, Stara Zagora from the mayor and residents of Kaloyanovets concerning the presence of unpleasant smells from the activity of the mobile installation. In this regard, on 2 July 2018, RIEW Stara Zagora carried out a new inspection of the installation during which the facility did not operate due to technical prophylaxis. It is stated that there is no lease with the owner of the property. The waste from the installation's operation is stored in metal containers and transmitted according to the contract concluded by The company is ordered to provide a copy of a rental contract at the site in the village of Kaloyanovets, as well as a copy of documents certifying the transfer of waste to external companies when changing the location of the installation. The order for registration and deployment of mobile equipment for disposal of animal by-products is regulated in the Veterinary Activity Act. The activities of transportation, recovery, treatment and storage, including the control and measures to prevent odors, are within the competence of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u202	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u203	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. It's professionally crafted. I know that in Bulgarian society, and not only in Bulgarian society, people everywhere protest against such installations. I was now involved in another village in Stara Zagora region for a career. People are against this because they think that it affects health, lifestyle and everything at all. I will take a word that you said at the beginning of your exhibition that these mobile installations should go on call and one such permanent establishment within the village, I think it is not acceptable. I'm pretty sure everything's legal. Another question is why the mayor of the municipality, the mayor of the settlement, has not been informed of this, although it is not legally necessary to notify them, but in order to reduce the tensions of what I tell you, perhaps when such installations are established, when such things are being done that are irritating to the local population, this should be promoted, to start from afar if it is necessary to be there. It's best because you said there's no water or sewerage to do outside the settlements. Even for the transport of these animal waste by-products, as they are called in legislation, it is better not to be located in the village itself. I don't know how the story will go from here, but I learned from the media that eventually within two months they will move from the village, which will ease the tension, but they will go somewhere else and there will be tensions. In this case, together with the Bulgarian Food Agency and your reporting agencies, you could develop some plans to analyze these protests so that people can be aware. I do not know why, for example, such an installation does not require an environmental impact assessment and on people's lives? I don't know.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u204	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u205	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, I agree with your concerns, but perhaps one of the things that can help people on the ground is to know to whom to address their questions. When it comes to veterinary problems, there is no way for the Ministry of the Environment to respond... we are not competent in this area when it comes to people's health, too. I pointed out for a reason that under the Environmental Protection Act, this type of installation is not considered an investment proposal. So the properly addressed question and demand in the right administration is the key to solving. We can go to an inspection here to see if environmental legislation is respected, but most of the questions you ask me are beyond the competence that the Minister of the Environment has. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u206	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. People's representative Slavcho Velkov wants the floor for procedure.) You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u207	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would like to make a procedural proposal to you and invite at least one representative of the largest parliamentary group, to which Mr. Tsvetanov has said several times that he is Chairman, as we are holding parliamentary control. There are ministers here so far there were two, now there is one, but it doesn't matter. This is the attitude of the largest parliamentary group to parliamentaryism in general and to what we do, even though there is a visit by a delegation of the People's Republic of China. In my opinion, there should be at least one representative, and I am asking you very much to do this thing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u208	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. There's a representative who was behind you the whole time you were talking. [[(Reply from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov:]] If I go in, I'm gonna have to ask some questions. It's better not to do it, but to move on with control. Question to the Minister of Culture Boel Banov from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova and Stoyan Mirchev regarding the adoption of the National Strategy for Culture. Here you are, Mrs. Sidorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u209	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable ministers! The Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria 2017 " 2021" describes the development, finalization, adoption and financial provision of the National Strategy for the Development of Arts, Culture and Cultural Tourism as a key priority. More than a year ago you made a commitment to have a complete project for such a national strategy to be presented in public discussion by the end of 2017. To date, there is no such project. In the public domain there is information that the deadline for drawing up the project has been extended by another year. It is also unclear what will be the place in the strategy of creative education and specialized schools in the field of art and culture. You know that education in the field of arts and culture is extremely important for the intellectual and emotional construction of the young man. He plays an important role in the development of imagination, creative thinking, and self - expression abilities. Professional education in arts and culture contributes significantly to the preservation of the traditional cultural values and the cultural diversity of our nation. Thanks to the staff prepared within this education, the success of the cultural and creative industries in Bulgaria is ensured. My question to you is: when will the project for National Strategy for Culture be ready and presented for public discussion; what is the vision for the development of creative education and specialized schools in the field of art and culture?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u210	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sidorova. For an answer, Mr. Banov, Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u211	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, Dear Mr. Mirchev, By order of 28 July 2017, an interdepartmental working group was formed to develop a draft National Strategy for Cultural Development. Four thematic areas of work have been formulated. For their development are formed subgroups which include experts from the Ministry of Culture and representatives of creative unions and the non-governmental sector in the field of culture. In the course of the work, available materials from past years have been examined, with a lack of development in individual sectors of culture being identified. This required the collection of information, analysis and creation of entirely new texts. The event was organized by the Board of Education, which took part in the participation of representatives of VUMs in Arts in the country. During the discussion it was adopted the vision for the future development of education in arts and culture to be considered in the context of strategic documents in the field of education, with leading objectives and priorities being ensuring high quality of preparation, sustainable development of schools in arts and culture, supporting the creative development of young talents and improving the material and technical base. The drawing up of the environment in which cultural policies will be implemented should necessarily take into account the new rules of European Union law prepared in recent years aimed at adapting copyright to the digital environment. This requires the revision and updating of the SWOT analysis on which we are building the Strategy. Given the development of technology, the debate on the future of culture, which should be reflected in the Strategy, is increasingly expanding and implies the development of new forms and policies for the protection and promotion of cultural diversity, creative mobility and the protection of intellectual property in the field of culture, as well as the creation of conditions for the development of cultural and creative industries, contemporary forms of cultural expression and quality education in the field of arts and culture. An adequate assessment of the risks and opportunities in the sector is key to planning effective policies. At present there are updated developments, the main strategic objectives for the common document are formulated. Work on the completion, discussion, generalization and precision of texts continues. On standby the project will be presented for public discussion in the order laid down in the Strategic Planning Methodology in the Republic of Bulgaria. I very much hope that we will be able to complete this awkward process within the month of October. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u212	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Mirchev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u213	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am very disappointed because you have just read an answer to a written question that you have given me February of this year. I didn't hear anything new. I've heard wishes, general performances, repetitions. I'm going to add a little bit of chronology that you read: 16 June 2017 This is about a year ago, to my question about the National Strategy for the Development of Culture of this Tribune, you stated that its final project would be ready by the end of 2017, you committed yourself to forming a working group. You said that it was already formed, for which I congratulate you, and pointed out your deputy Rumen Dimitrov as a direct supervisor. - The month of August 2017 when presenting the priorities of your work you place the National Strategy as such. Again, according to your information, more than 120 people have been included in this task force since August 2017 and one year later there is no result. For 2018 to say some things: - In the newspaper "Strojetel" in April 2018, you said about the activity under the project: They were allocated to working groups on policies and sectors and are currently being summarized, that is to say they should be in the final. The problem is that a few months later, in June 2018, you say you are updating again. So, as you've almost summarized that we're going to have a Strategy, you're starting to analyze the materials that were supposed to be done a year ago. This development of things, unfortunately, sounds familiar to me because your predecessor Mr Rashidov had done in 2012 a whole monitoring committee whose work ended in vain, even without a report on what had been done. He had given creative and scientific works to 28 working groups to sum up and finalize the draft strategy of a non-governmental organisation that still failed to implement its product. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My specific questions: is there, first, financial resources at stake and how many are there to finally have such a strategy? What administrative responsibility will the responsible deputy bear because it is now necessary to be held responsible for the violation of all deadlines and we do not have a prepared strategy? Since you didn't reply with a specific deadline because I suppose you are ashamed because you had promised for the end of 2017, and we are now the middle of 2018: what are the guarantees that we will have new deadlines, when will they be and when will the Bulgarian culture finally have its strategy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u214	Thank you, dear Mr. Mirchev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u215	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, dear Mr. Mirchev, so that I do not enter emotionally and I into this important and key issue for the development of culture, and culture is the basis for the proper development of the country and the state, I will tell you something from yesterday. Yesterday 5 July, an unsuccessful attempt to vote on a mandate of the European Parliament to open negotiations on the draft directive on copyright in the digital single market. This failed experience retains extreme ambiguity in terms of perspectives for the preservation of cultural heritage, in order to ensure fair remuneration for authors and contractors, in relation to the obligations of internet platforms as users of protected content and mechanisms for negotiating rights on audiovisual works for the dissemination of video on demand platforms. These topics are an integral part of the analysis of the external factors of the environment and are extremely important for the quality of the SWOT analysis on which we build the Strategy. So if we want not only to present some document, we have looked at such documents to say that we have a Strategy, we will make the document such that it contains quality, that it contains prospects, that it contains clarity. We are not very relieved by the European processes related to the development of legislation in the field of culture, but we will still work, and if we have to, we will be ahead of them. I make a firm commitment that the strategy will be brought to a successful conclusion, as is our vision of this huge working group, I also said in the first speech: everything we can do in October to present it. It is extremely crucial what is happening in the European Parliament. This copyright directive is not just about any remuneration. It gives a different perspective to the whole art market, to the whole development of culture. Thank you for your commitment. It's really important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u216	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank Minister Banov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov. The issue is from the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zhekova about higher pay and better conditions for doing night work. Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u217	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! During admissions, the last in Belovo, Pazardzhik and September, people raised the question of the conditions and pay of night labor. These problems cover more than 400,000 Bulgarian citizens working at night. The problems are mainly in two groups from the very nature of this type of load, fatigue, increased incidence, increased accidents, accidents and turnover, social exclusion, increased frequency of divorces, demographic problems. The work of the shifts has also been associated with an increased risk of type 2 diabetes, heart attack, cancer, hypertension, overcrowding. The other problem is the legal framework in force. In the Regulation on the structure and organization of the salary, the principles for determining additional pay for night work have not been updated since 2007 or more than 10 years when the minimum wage was 180 BGN. The current size is BGN 540. For one night shift per hour, the rate is 25 percent.! For an hour worked at night, the rate is 25 cm, which makes 1.75 BGN. This amount is insufficient even for the transport costs that workers make for going and returning to work. It is not bound by the minimum wage, which is an opportunity to be updated or bound by any percentage of indexation to the minimum wage, but not only are the options. It is necessary to rethink the calculation of night labor and adequate compensation for employees. In most European countries, workers are owed 15 per cent for night work. And in case it's permanently due, this supplement increases. In our legislation, as I mentioned, the regulations relating to night work are regulated in the Ordinance, which is in the jurisdiction of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u218	To the Minister, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u219	And in this regard, what is the vision of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy regarding the regulations relating to night work? Will the wording and rate relating to night work, which has not been changed for more than 10 years, be revised? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u220	Thank you, dear Mrs Jekova. Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy for an answer. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u221	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Zhekova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Labour legislation regulates special requirements for the application of night labour by establishing different reliefs for workers and employees who aim at better protection. Taking into account the adverse effects on the health of persons, labour law prohibits vulnerable groups of workers and employees from doing night work, that is, bans on people who are not really 18 years old, pregnant women and those who are progressing in treatment in vitro, for mothers with children up to 6 years of age and mothers who are caring for children with disabilities, regardless of their age, for workers who are working, employees, for those who continue their education without interruption from production. Mechanisms have also been introduced to limit it, with the normal duration of weekly working hours at night at a 5-day working week of up to 35 hours, with the normal duration of weekly working hours during the day being 40 hours. Working hours at night at a 5-day working week are up to seven hours, while normal daily working hours, as is known, are eight hours. In this way, the burden of night work is taken into account, while the basic wage is maintained despite the reduced duration of work at night. In the Labour Code, there are also restrictions on the duration of overtime that can be applied at night. It may not exceed 30 hours of daily and 20 hours of night work in one calendar month, as well as six hours of day or four hours of night work in one calendar week, respectively. Despite the bans and restrictions introduced, the functioning of modern society is impossible without doing night work. It is due in non-interruptible proceedings and socially significant sectors such as healthcare, public order and others. The total ban on night labor is unthinkable, which is why additional protection is accepted for those who are doing such work. An obligation for employers to conduct preliminary and periodic medical examinations of employees is envisaged. It is also imperative to provide warm food, refreshing beverages and other soothing conditions for the effective use of night labor. The reduction of working hours at night and the increased criteria for ensuring better working conditions are combined with minimum requirements for the payment of additional wage for each working night. The Regulation on the structure and organisation of the salary provides that workers and employees will be paid an additional wage for nocturnal work of not less than 25 centimeters when the work is between 22 and six o'clock in the morning. This remuneration is defined as a minimum amount, but with a collective employment contract, with internal wage rules or with an individual employment contract, a higher amount can be determined. The practice shows that in enterprises where there is an active and constructive social dialogue, additional wage for night work is negotiated in sizes that are significantly greater than the minimum defined by the Ordinance. Finally, I would like to assure you that the principles of the International Labour Organisation and the minimum requirements of the European Union directives on the organisation of working hours, including those relating to night work, have been introduced in the labour law. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy continues to make efforts to encourage the implementation of a complex approach in enterprises in the organisation of work at night, including its adequate pay. I believe that effective and balanced solutions should be sought through collective bargaining, both at the level of an undertaking and at industry and industry level, taking into account the specific characteristics of jobs, of stakeholders. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u222	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Zhekova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u223	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the things you said in response to the question were not an emphasis on what I put as a question. And it is in connection with the minimum hourly rate which has not been updated since 2007. I was hoping that the Ministry would still offer some more adequate vision regarding this minimum hourly rate. I have very well heard your response, which is related to the active and constructive dialogue in the enterprises in which it exists, but in a larger percentage of enterprises all are based on this Regulation on the structure and organisation of the salary, in which the hourly rate for working night work is 25 cent. I stress that at that period the minimum wage was 180 BGN, now it is 540 BGN. There are more effective instruments and our parliamentary group is currently working on such a proposal. It is related to the revision of the Labour Code as laid down the calculations relating to work on official and festive days, thus increasing the percentage for work during the night work. I hope that the Ministry will pay attention to these upcoming proposals of ours, because we believe that the adequate position of the state in terms of the night's work should not only be with ease in the labour law as they exist, not only with restrictions on working at night for a certain group of people, but also at rates, and in the adequate remuneration of this work. We believe that an increase in the rate for night labour would also have a more favourable effect on the budget, because ultimately, if it were to increase, the revenues in the insurance system would be millions additional. I will also mention a trade unions proposal that was made in April. They suggested that night labor and night time rate be indexed by 0.5% on the minimum wage, which is also a good and effective tool. My opinion is that this must happen through our labour legislation in order to resolve this issue and these public relations sustainablely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u224	Thank you, dear Mrs Jekova. It's okay. That was important to hear. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u225	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Zhekova, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It was no coincidence in my reply that the collective bargaining negotiated the amounts of this additional remuneration which significantly exceed the minimum amount set out in the Ordinance. I'll be more specific. According to data from the National Institute for Reconciliation and Arbitration, more than 50% of the workers covered by the collective bargaining were agreed on an additional remuneration for work which significantly exceeds the minimum amount. The average amount of collective labour contracts for remuneration of one hour of nocturnal work is 74 c., i.e. three times higher than that established as minimal in the Ordinance. I agree with what Mrs Zhekova said that the solution to this issue should be sought through labour law as part of the solution to the bigger issue, which is the issue of pay for labour. I assure you that the topic of labour pay and collective bargaining is part of the topics discussed between the social partners with the participation of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. So we are looking for a balanced and mutually acceptable solution in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-06.u226	Thank you, dear Minister. This was the last question about today's parliamentary control. We should thank Minister Petkov for his participation today. I'm adjourning the parliamentary session for today. Regular plenary sitting on 11 July 2018 at 9:00. [[PHONE RINGING]]
