ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u1	Good morning, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly Work Programme for 21 March 2018: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers: Stanislav Stanilov and a group of MPs on 21 June 2017. Adopted at first vote on 13 July 2017. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 2. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing candidates in the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics and election of Vice-President and three members of the Anti-Corruption Commission and withdrawing illegally acquired property. Importer: Anti-Corruption Commission, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics on 16 March 2018. 3. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules for the conduct of lots for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (promise, SG No. ...), as well as the proposal of candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. Importer: Energy Commission on 20 March 2018 4. First vote on bills to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 25 May 2017; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and a group of MPs on 6 June 2017; Valentin Kasabov and a group of MPs on 30 November 2017; Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017; the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2017; Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 18 January 2018; Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of MPs on 21 February 2018. 5. Second vote on the Bill for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act. Exporters: Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev on 19 February 2018. Adopted at first vote on 28 February 2018. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. Importer: Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018. Adopted at first vote on 21 February 2018. 7. Draft Law on the ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva. Importer: Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018 8. Parliamentary Controls "Friday 23 March 2018" at 9:00 p.m. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the fourth item of the agenda provided for in the draft programme. Seven bills are scheduled for discussion. Following the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 14 March 2018, the debate on anti-corruption measures proposed in the implementation of the recommendations of the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism continued in society. Especially active in this public debate are employers' organizations and business organizations. It is obvious that there is a need to continue public discussion before we proceed to the first vote in plenary. For this reason, as chairman of the committee responsible for the seven bills, I propose a 10-day delay. I undertake this commitment and I now announce that for next Wednesday, the meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs will be in the form of a Public discussion of the Penal Code Bills. From now on, Madam President, I ask that it be reserved for next Wednesday for 2:30 p.m. in the East for this public discussion. I use the case, if you judge and allow it, to make a common invitation to all. At the Conference of Presidents, a large part of the parliamentary groups supported this proposal to postpone. I think it's reasonable and in favor of the legislative process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Stoinev, please come back for a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, we from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Parliamentary Group of BSP object to the fourth drop. Dear Mr. Kirilov, if you want to have a public discussion, it should have happened before the first reading of this extremely controversial draft of the Council of Ministers. You know how much tension there is in society, and because of this bill you want laws that, notice, colleagues, have been tabled on 25 May 2017, at the moment not to look at them again, whether it will postpone by a week. Our proposal is to watch these bills, especially on the left, this week. They've been sitting in Mr. Kirilov's locker for a long time. Moreover, we, as a European country, in which European practice is precisely the laws to look at on time, more and more when GERB rules, become an Oriental state [[Shouting from GERB: "Eee! "]] In which the laws are observed after a year. That is why we want because thanks to BSP Bulgaria became a full member of the European Union... [[Laughter, applause and applause]] Thanks to BSP, that's right! Our desire is to see these laws on time. In time to look at the laws, all the more so that this also concerns the Law on the so-called Istanbul Convention. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Hold on, hold on, guys! BSP, which actually propose laws on the fight against violence against women, and we strongly condemn this violence, is exactly what the bill we need to see today. And because GERB seems to be taking their way of thinking and the regime they are imposing, they are taking us away perhaps from Europe. [[Laughter and excitement in GERB]] They want this law not to be seen, namely through the Istanbul Convention to adopt a convention, and leave the laws behind. That's why we at BSP insist that point four remain, Mr. Kirilov. If you have problems with the Law of the Council of Ministers, which is a huge problem for the Bulgarian business, and people are really stiff, this law is nice to see at a later stage. But bills that age a year, it's nice to look at them now and now. You can reject them, it's your right, in you is the power, you consider what you like or don't, but ultimately we...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u5	But, Mr. Stoinev, please, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u6	Yes, thank you, one sentence. ...as an opposition and worried about not being watched and not having a normal trial in this room...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u7	You abuse the kindness of the chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u8	...we want these laws to be watched. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Petrov? [[Lowered noise, applause and cheering]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u10	It's the way it's supposed to be. Madam President, I ask you to put order in the lead, because the tone with which Mr. Stoynev started at 105 decibels height and ended at 85. [[Laughter in GERB]] is insulted by the National Assembly. I felt like someone was yelling at me and yelling at me. I ask you in such cases to make remarks, because one representative cannot insult all of us and call us that we live almost in an Oriental state. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please follow this condition and, if possible, introduce the rule that is also introduced on the televisions.. advertising should not be higher tone. [[Laughter and applause from GERB.]] That's what engineers can do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u11	Thank you, Mr. Petrov, I will respect your remark. Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Kirilov's proposal to drop item four on this week's agenda. Vote 179 MPs: for 123, against 55, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the National Assembly's Work Programme for 21 March 2018 without item four, which we just voted to drop. Vote 180 MPs: 122, against 52, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we have a proposal on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. 53, para. 3 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be included on the agenda as a point in the forthcoming weekly agenda of the National Assembly: the first vote of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on Credit for Students and Doctoral Students, No 854 01 3, from 26 January 2018, importers Lalo Kirilov and a group of Members of the National Assembly. Colleagues, this proposal is unacceptable because there has been a Commission, but there is not yet an entry report into the National Assembly and the two months have not expired, which are the necessary deadline for such a proposal to be made. Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u12	Madam President, I'm going to use two things to say. First, in my opinion, the agenda itself had to be voted on, and then the drop of the point. At least that's how it's always been done. The result would be the same, because you would still vote this, but the order is the opposite: first the agenda is voted and then the drop of the item. Secondly, on the occasion of the report: there have been several amendments to the same procedure in this House over the last few months, which have not been passed at all before. The law on interest rates that you introduced back then had two bills. One of them was ours, the other was the colleagues of the Patriots. You brought theirs in under this procedure without going through committees, ours didn't. Finally, ours will come out if a bill comes out of this at all, because they will accept our changes and we will get this one. Then why couldn't he? Now he can't? So I call on the Bill to pass, despite the fact that you will not report it to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u13	Yes, Mr. Kutev, I will put it to the vote and give Mr. Stoinev the opportunity to make a two-minute presentation. Mr. Kirilov, come in for a two-minute presentation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u14	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Law on Crediting Students and PhD students in 2008 guaranteed access for young people to the higher education system in Bulgaria. This gives the opportunity to increase the educational value of young people, thereby enabling them to respond quickly to the challenges facing the labour market and to meet the needs of the economy and society, which are increasingly based on knowledge and are dependent on it. At the same time, the credit system for students and PhD students guarantees sustainability of the principle of access to higher education of individuals regardless of their social status. A data analysis for the period 2010 to 2015 shows that 17 928 young people benefited from the opportunities provided by the Law, with the total amount of loans received being 114, 631 million. lv. Along with these positive trends, there are also those that limit young people's ability to get their education. This is the case with the Order of Art. 3, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law, which limits the scope of persons who can obtain credit, namely only for persons in regular form of training. We importers of the Law believe that students in another form of training will be discriminated against due to the fact that they do not have enough resources and free time and combine work and training. And that is why we propose to delete the words in regular form. [[the President signals that time has run out]] , respectively art. 3, para. 1, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 26, para. 1, t. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u15	Thank you. Mrs. Damyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As far as I understand it, my colleague should be doing a procedure to examine the bill in the House this week. We of GERB's parliamentary group, and all MPs who are members of the Educational Committee, have always felt that we should make an education policy, not an education policy. [[Applause from GERB.]] The bill was reviewed last week in both the Committee on Education and Science and the Committee on Budget and Finance. In both committees were held extremely fruitful discussions.. You were present, you saw. Stenograms from the meetings arrived at the committees on Monday. The reports are currently being drawn up, so next week we also want this discussion to be held in a Chamber, but we also want all the Members in this House to be familiar with the discussion and debate that has taken place in the Commission, because we have all agreed, anyway, that a change of this law is necessary, and that is why the discussions must be conducted extremely fruitful and well, and everyone should be aware. So I am making a reverse proposal that this bill should not be dealt with this week in the Chamber, but the next time it is available, and when the committee reports come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u18	I'd like the floor by procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u19	What procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u20	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u21	Here you are, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u22	In the manner of conduct, Madam President, because you allow MPs to make a proposal for a Law that has not even entered the agenda. I understand that he got on the agenda first. Secondly, nothing prevents your experts from finally writing this report from Monday to today or until tomorrow, and the Bill can be seen tomorrow. Colleagues, look at the agenda. We are once again a disgrace to the Bulgarian society, and we are supposedly a country with European development, for which BSP has always insisted. In a European country, it is normal for the agenda to be filled with laws. At the moment we have absolutely no laws to see this week.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u23	Mr. Stoynev, if you could just keep it down a little bit, because I'm about to get another remark.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u24	This week we have absolutely no laws! That is why we offer you this bill to enter the hall and watch it because it is necessary for the Bulgarian students. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I see we have laws in the program for this week. I don't know which program you're reading. I put to the vote the proposal of the parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria" in the Programme for today to enter: First vote on the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law for lending students and PhD students, vh. No 854 01/26 January 2018, submitted by the National Representative Lalo Kirilov and a group of MPs. Vote 179 MPs: 77, against 58, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. I'll read you a few messages. Draft and draft resolutions from 14 March 2018 to 20 March 2018: Report on the activities of the Fiscal Council for 2018. Importer is the Chairman of the Fiscal Council. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft decision to award state monetary awards for special merit to the Bulgarian state and nation. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. Bill amending and supplementing the Law on limitation of payments in cash. Importers are Menda Stoyanova and Stanislav Ivanov. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act "National Security." Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act is the lead. Dear Madame Chairman! I withdraw my signature under the bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products, No 854 01-16 of 7 March 2018, submitted by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and a group of MPs. I request that this circumstance be reflected in the relevant registers and bases of the National Assembly. Radoslav Stoychev, MP. Messages: The National Assembly has received: Report on the implementation of the Ministry of Finance's programming budget for 2017, accompanied by a summary. Report on the implementation of the Ministry of Tourism's programming budget as of 31 December 2017. Summary of the Report on the implementation of the budget of the State Agency "National Security" for 2017. The detailed report is submitted separately and is located in the Registry for National Classified Information of the National Assembly, Piazza "Knyaz Aleksandar I", floor 2, room 280. Report on the implementation of the budget programme "Electronical management, electronic identification and information security" of the State Agency "Electron management" for 2017. The reports are made available to the Committee on Budget and Finance and to the relevant committees and are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. The National Statistical Institute has received information about: Key results of the labour force monitoring in 2017; Inflation and indexes of consumer prices for February 2018. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Mr. Bikov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u26	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On 19 March 2018, we witnessed once again an inadequate and unacceptable speech by a Member of Parliament from the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria, which undermines the prestige of the National Assembly and calls into question decades of consensus in the political and public life of the country. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] No, it's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u27	Quiet, please! A declaration on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u28	In his publication on the social networks, the People's Representative from BSP Tasco Ermenkov wrote: "Krim voted for President of Russia. Insulted by Russia's annexation, over 90% of those voted there are for Putin. Hello, U.S.A., FRG, France, European Union, after all, did you hear the voice of the people in Crimea? It doesn't really matter. Hear it or not, the Crimea has spoken its heavy word, and you, as Hristo Botev said:.. and you... are idiots! We leave without comment the results of the last elections in Russia, as we have not allowed ourselves to comment on election results in any country outside of ours. The understanding of the parliamentary group of GERB is that the relations between Bulgaria and Russia should be on a pragmatic and mutually beneficial basis, not based on feelings such as love and hate. In this sense, Tasco Ermenkov's statement violates not only the Bulgarian national interest, but also sabotages the pragmatic foundation on which Bulgarian-Russian relations should be built. We pay attention to this statement because it continues a dangerous anti-European trend, which has been developing for two years in the largest opposition party in Bulgaria. This is not the first anti-European speech by a BSP member. After this tribune of a socialist asks for a referendum on Bulgaria's EU and NATO membership [[Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria: "He is not a socialist! "]] Tasco Ermenkov's statement... Excuse me, commie! In the speech of Tasco Ermenkov partner countries such as the United States, Germany and France, and then the whole European Union, from which Bulgaria is part, are called the idiots. We recall that it is these countries and the European Union as a whole that are the main and sole guarantor both for the national security of Bulgaria and for the economic and social development of the country. At the same time, Tasco Ermenkov's statement expresses full and unconditional support for the annexation of Crimea by Russia, which contradicts not only the Bulgarian state position supported by several governments, but also the Bulgarian national interest, according to which it is strategically important to stop any redrawing of state borders in Europe. For Bulgarian national security, it is particularly important that the problems between the different countries are solved peacefully with the help of the international community and based on international legal order. The several-day silence of the President, the leadership and the parliamentary group of the BSP regarding the scandalous statement is very significant and disturbing. Today we demand that the President of BSP Cornelia Ninova take a clear position regarding the statement of Tasco Ermenkov. And if it still supports the consensus that Bulgaria should be part of Europe and that our country is against the revision of any state borders on the European continent, to categorically distinguish itself from it. We use the scandalous statement of Tasco Ermenkov to ask the following questions to the President of BSP, which are essential for the development and national security of Bulgaria, namely: firstly, do you support the preservation of the territorial integrity of Ukraine? Secondly, do you support a review of state borders in Europe that could affect a number of European countries? Thirdly, do you think the annexation of Crimea and the creation of an opportunity to review state borders in Europe beyond the international legal order serve the Bulgarian national interest or harm it? The specific answers to these questions are essential to the whole Bulgarian society because they will also answer the question: what party is BSP and how much of its strategic priorities are based on the Bulgarian national interest? In this context we also recall the words of the President of BSP two days ago, when we heard a call to Prime Minister Borisov to protect Bulgaria's national sovereignty and territorial integrity with regard to Turkey. Cornelia Ninova then referred precisely to international law and the principles of good neighbourliness. We hope and expect the President of the BSP to invoke these same principles in relation to the annexation of Crimea, for which the support is obviously a priority of its MP Mr. Tasco Ermenkov. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Pawnov. I kept quiet all the time. I didn't bring, but I don't know what you're going to tell me now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u30	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u31	For a personal explanation, you may, but in the manner of conduct, you have no grounds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! In this hall is trying a propaganda of type Goebbels a hundred times repeated a lie to become true. Mr. Tsvetanov started first. First of all, I want to tell Mr. Bikov that I am not a socialist, but a communist; this is not the opinion of the BSP that is the opinion of the Communist Party. And I supported the honourable Member who proposed that a referendum be held, only in order not to spend any more money, I suggested that there should be a referendum on NATO as well. This lie continues to be pronounced many times here and I think it is time to stop because BSP has nothing to do with what you are trying to sew. I am the first secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Bulgaria and this is the opinion of the Communist Party and not of the BSP, who signed when Bulgaria entered the European Union and respectively voted for NATO. Four people voted against Bulgaria's entry into NATO "Alexander Paunov," Professor Pantev, Saparev and General Luben Petrov. This is our opinion, but the BSP has nothing to do with it. They are a European party and when they voted for entry into the European Union, there simply was no GERB then, they did not exist. [[Noise and lines.]] I believe that if you continue this way, this party is very old... My friend Vejdi Rashidov offered to be banned. I'm sorry he's not here. It has been banned many times, it has been put into custody, in concentration camps, it has been shot, hanged, but at the moment it is there and will be there, but I doubt there will be GERB when you come out of power! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u33	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Personal explanation Mr. Tsvetanov. You've been mentioned, please. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u34	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Pawnov! Of course you have your political position, you have stated, even now you have also stated who voted against NATO. It is worrying to us that the periphery in the BSP parliamentary group is expanding with statements against the European Union and behaviour that does not correspond to European values. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u35	Personal explanation, Mr. Tsvetanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u36	Currently Mr. Tasco Ermenkov joins those who say that annexation of Crimea is acceptable, something normal. At the same time, however, your leader yesterday in Kardzhali said that international law should be respected. We do not know what your position is, so we are only talking about identity and behaviour that corresponds to the attitudes that are in your parliamentary group. But Tasco Ermenkov is now also part of your decision of your Communist Party to leave Bulgaria perhaps from the European Union and NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u37	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, we'll continue with our next statement. Mr. Vigenin, please come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u38	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! It is indeed a pity that this is the way we need to talk in plenary. I would very much like GERB's parliamentary group and GERB party to be at the height of its responsibilities, but very often it is not. You are a ruling party in a country that is President of the Council of the European Union. Instead of focusing on the important issues for Bulgaria and for the European Union, you are constantly bothering us with things that are not for the plenary. [[Noise and lines.]] Since the beginning of the year you have produced only scandals, conflicts, problems. [[Noise and lines.]] You make them! You're giving the opposition an excuse to use them. The problem is not the opposition, the problem is the government who fail to appreciate what the important things are and what the positions should take. For the past two months you have been analyzing BSP drafts, interviewing MPs. But the bottom line is to concern us with the Facebook statuses of MPs from BSP, who are in a personal profile that do not engage the parliamentary group or the party. And we are turning Parliament once again into some subprime court in which we deprive and feel that a representative of the people does not have the right to a different opinion, which is absurd, I say again, especially in a period in which we chair a free and democratic union of countries such as the European Union. Secondly, you concern Parliament with things that in no way affect the essence of its activities and the Bulgarian citizens. You demonstrate helplessness and despair with such declarations, and you have to understand that. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You are unable to adequately oppose the criticisms of the opposition and the only thesis you have left is to make us undemocratic, retrograde, anti-European, that hopefully the Bulgarian citizens will again choose the lesser evil in which you see yourself. This tactic has been going on for a long time, but it won't go on anymore. So it is better to focus on things that will be useful for you, for Bulgaria and for the European Union. I am particularly surprised at your MEPs, who, instead of taking their responsibilities seriously as representatives of the country, the President of the Council of the European Union, to behave like serious people, they behave like children in kindergarten. I'm sorry to say, since I've worked with some of them. The only thing that has become known for the last two months here in Bulgaria is the writing of documents against BSP to the European institutions and respectively to the Party of European Socialists, the Istanbul Convention, now the declaration against a fellow MP from the Bulgarian Parliament. I'm just surprised they don't deal with the more serious things we have to decide. Why not make a declaration about the future in cohesion policy, something to say about the future of the European budget, try to coordinate something together?! They concern the European institutions with who said what and what declaration she wrote as the BSP project and what she removed from it. I'm sorry, this is totally not serious. I don't know if inside GERB you realize this, but people see it. This tactic is detrimental to you, but it is also harmful to our country. If you are such a European party, I would still like to draw attention to the fact that, in my opinion, many of us do not understand the European Union, because you came ready in 2009, when we worked for more than 10 years for Bulgaria's membership in the European Union! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We've fought battles for which you have no idea. Of course, it's easy to make declarations here today. [[GERB lines]] And you don't even have the courage to do that by one of your party's leadership, but you're using mercenaries again. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This, first of all, is not serious, second, somehow does not give the necessary weight to what you say. Once again: if you are such Europeans, how many times did your Prime Minister come here to explain what is happening in the European Union? How many times has Bulgaria come to say what positions it takes before, but now also during the Presidency? I use the case from the tribune on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................................................... to invite him and say:.............................................................................................................................................. [[GERB lines]] because they have a commitment to reflect the Presidency. You act like an authoritarian party in an authoritarian state. The European Union is a democratic union of free and democratic countries. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The European Union encourages different opinions. The European Union would like to see decisions not drawn from Brussels, which are adopted in a clear and non-controversial manner. On the contrary, I believe that the truth is always born in the dispute, and in history has happened more than once when such single positions were then proved true. I'm not commenting on the case. I comment that for you the different opinion within GERB is unacceptable and it is never publicly expressed. You want everyone to be like you. No, that's not possible! BSP is a democratic party. It will resist its democratism, but along with it it is in very clear positions. You will not find any official position of the BSP to defend itself against national leadership and from the parliamentary group, which is contrary to European principles and European positions. And instead of, Mr. Bikov, asking Cornelia Ninova questions, open our documents, we stand behind them, we support them. In our official activity and positions we stick to them, which does not mean that a position should stay fixed and forever in time. The world is changing, and the positions need to change, and it is better to discuss them instead of labeling here who and what has said. I would like to assure you that not as much as the Bulgarian citizens that BSP has been, remains and will be the European party of Bulgaria, regardless of what assessments and labels you are trying to glue to it! Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u39	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We continue with the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION OF THE LEGISLATION AND ADVISION OF THE LAW FOR THE DEVELOPMENT OF ACADEMIC COMPOSITION IN THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u40	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Last week we came to a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man .... 13a.............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14a, para. 2, at the end of the provision after the word for Doctor and 600 BGN for the PhD of Science The Commission does not support the proposal. Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by MP Galya Zaharieva and Stanislav Stanilov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence second after the words 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The transfer from academic position to the same academic position to another university or scientific organisation may be carried out without a competition, with a choice by decision of the university or scientific organisation and under conditions and by order determined by their rules. In the same order, transfer of the same or appropriate academic position may take place from a foreign university or scientific organisation which are recognised and accredited by the competent authorities concerned for the foreign country. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 5 Finally, the right to participate in the scientific jury appointed by the order of this law shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to draw attention to our proposal, which is related to the introduction of order in terms of the payment of scientific degrees. Our proposal is as follows: for the educational and scientific degree.Doctor.The service is not less than 300 BGN, but for the scientific degree. With this proposal we try and propose to introduce justice and equality between the various scientific communities in the country. While there is virtually no particular problem for higher schools, because in most of them, the study I was able to do, these minimum payments are available. But the problem comes in the two major scientific communities. "The Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy. At the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences for the Educational and Scientific Degree "Doctor" at the moment the pay is 120 BGN, and for the Doctor of Sciences. Accordingly, after a budget adjustment, these minimum payments are expected to become BGN 210. for Doctor and 300 BGN for the Doctor of Science. At the Agricultural Academy literally a few days ago the Management Board accepted a payment of 210 BGN. for Doctor and 300 BGN for the Doctor of Science. We are talking about the same rules under which they are chosen, nominated and respectively grow in their career Bulgarian scientists, but this inequality in pay creates serious problems and tensions. Therefore, I believe that our proposal is legitimate against the backdrop of all the laws that have been adopted so far, in which there are minimal payments. We propose that it be firm and absolutely all scientific organizations move on to it. If there is an opportunity for higher payments respectively, it is already in the law of higher schools. The figures that I have partly made for the difference that needs to be covered in order to meet these requirements are for no more than a million and a half leva for the year. This creates a problem to be adopted in the Bill, which solves somewhat the issues of academic development and the requirements that are provided or proposed to be adopted as uniform standards for the entire scientific community. I therefore appeal to you with the proposal to support these proposals of ours in order to make it really possible for the career growth of scientists and motivation to provide them with a well-deserved payment for these degrees that they have acquired over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u43	Thank you. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u44	My fellow Members, I understand here the aspiration of the speaker before me to raise the salaries of the scientists in general, but in the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber, although I have always been about and I have spoken many times about this issue when we discuss budget or other financial issues, we cannot determine in it only payments for degrees. If we determine salaries, let's determine salaries for everyone: as associate professor, as professor, as chief assistant, and so on. This cannot be done without the Ministry of Finance and without all the political forces shaking hands and saying, "Come on, we are doing this." Furthermore, I have always opposed, we have opposed in law to fix amounts and funds, because, as you know, the financial status in a country like Bulgaria is erratic, it moves back and forth, up and down and can not, by setting a minimum, it can be valid for a long time. We voted in favour of this proposal in the Commission, I was against it, I do not remember if I abstained. The way to raise the incomes of scientists, which are uniquely low not only for Europe, even in Macedonia receive double salaries, the chief assistants for example receive twice as much as ours, is another, it is not for the Law on the Academic Chambers. That's what I think.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u45	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Line up, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u46	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Professor Stanilov! This question has been asked more than once. It was also placed during the discussion of the budget and then you did not support it. Otherwise everything remains fairy tales that we are about the Bulgarian science that we are willing to develop the academic staff in Bulgaria, but we do nothing and we do not want to move. I would like to ask: why, in the Budget Act, when it was proposed precisely this change, including the levels of payment of different degrees, did you again not support it? This is not about millions that the budget cannot provide. Now you say, not in this law, in the other law. I have no idea how you intend to resolve this issue precisely with this inequality between the different institutions in Bulgaria, which are involved in science.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u47	Thank you. Second line, please, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u48	Dear Professor Stanilov, I would kind of agree with your speech, but I would also like to remind you of something else because you spoke at all about the remuneration of academic positions. It is true that BSP colleagues had such a proposal when we examined the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber of First Voting here in the Chamber. I said then: let us not forget that the minimum wage requirement was introduced in 2004 and 2006. During the management of the Triple Coalition, it was abolished on the grounds that if it remained, the management model of higher schools and scientific organizations should be changed in the direction of withdrawing their autonomy. There have been examples of different countries such as Germany, but in these countries, such as Germany, the state has many powers in terms of higher schools and scientific organisations, including the appointment of the Rector. I will remind my colleagues in the hall and some of the opinion not of the Ministry of Finance, but of the Rector of Sofia University, who wrote on the occasion of a similar proposal to his colleagues from BSP: The minimum remuneration offered are at least twice higher than the current remuneration of Sofia University. At first glance, this means doubling the maintenance subsidy, given that at the moment it is only enough for half of the Fund, the rest of the Fund is provided by own funds, it is necessary to triple or double the subsidy, but also to double the student fees. The latter is not only socially unacceptable, but in a number of professional directions it is also impossible, as fees have a legally defined threshold. Here I will say that, in principle, when proposals are tabled, they must be motivated, whether written or in oral form, but they must also contain the necessary financial justification that is lacking in colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Is there another line? Professor Stanilov? You refuse. Are there any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs to create § 13a, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: 23, against 30, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 14, which shall become § 15. Vote 91 MPs: 83 against 3, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u50	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u51	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16, and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u52	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u53	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17, and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u54	Under Paragraph 17, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of §17, which shall become §18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 para. 1 is amended as The Academic position of the Chief Assistant shall be occupied only by a person who meets the minimum national requirements of art. 2b, para. 2 and 3, respectively, to the requirements of art. 2b, para. 5 and holds the educational and scientific degree of Doctor, which for the specialties of regulated professions corresponds to the declared contest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u55	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u56	Dear Mr. President, colleagues, I would like to say why we have made this proposal. Yeah, it really has something to do with medical school. We insist on adding to the regulated professions a specialty. I can give one example: you cannot give a person of various specialties reviews and an assessment of the scientific works of another colleague who is not of the same specialty or at least close to his. I thank the Commission for supporting this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u57	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 17, which shall become § 18. 90 MPs voted: 90, no opposition and no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u58	Under § 18, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of §18, which shall become §19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 the word "Developments" shall be replaced by "Developments" and "Developments" shall be replaced by 2. A t is created. 7. "7." a reference to the fulfilment of the minimum national requirements under art. 2b, para. 2 and 3, respectively, to the requirements of art. 2b, para. 5 which is subject to the necessary evidence laid down in this Law, in the Rules of Application and in the Rules of Higher Schools or Scientific Organizations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u59	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's version of § 18, which shall become § 19. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u60	Under § 19 there is a proposal from the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with Article 19. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 19 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u61	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 19. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u62	Under § 20, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words the legal requirements and the requirements of art. 1 shall be added, including the minimum national requirements of art. 2b, para. 2 and 3 and in the end it is added by art. 2b, para. 5. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The competition shall be held on documents no later than one month after the communication under para. 2. At the beginning of the closing session, the candidates made a brief presentation on a topic selected by them corresponding to the announced contest and answered questions of the members of the jury.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u63	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 20. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u64	Under § 21, there is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislava Stoyanova, made in accordance with the order of Art. 83, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, i.e. 1 after the words. 2b, para. The following words shall be added to the list: 2b, para. 3 and para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 2b, para. The following points are inserted after point 5 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u65	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 21 with the replacement proposed by the Commission. 1. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u66	Under § 22, there is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislava Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 sentence is created second and third: The order and the way to hold the vote in the selection shall be defined in the rules of the relevant university or scientific organisation. Only the members of the faculty council who are habilitated persons and persons with the educational and scientific degrees of Doctor and/or the scientific degree of Doctor of Sciences and the scientific organizations of the Scientific Council shall take part in the voting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u67	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 22. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u68	Under § 23, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs, which is supported by the Commission. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1 the following additions are made: In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 is finally added which for the specialties of regulated professions must be of the same specialty. 2. They're creating a t. 4 and 5. "4." meet the minimum national requirements under art. 2b, para. 2 and 3, respectively, to the requirements of art. 2b, para. 5; 5. not to be proven by the legal order plagiarism in scientific works.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u69	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 23. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u70	Under § 24, there is a proposal from the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with Article 24. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 24 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u71	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the rejection of § 24. Vote 91 MPs: 90, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u72	Under § 25, there is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 24, in c. 1 after the word "Law" the rules for its implementation shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u73	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 24, with the addition to the text under point 25. 1 which is proposed by the Commission after the word "Law" is added the Rules for its implementation. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u74	Under § 26, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall be added at the end, including the decision referred to in Article 1. 26, para. The sentence is created and the second sentence is created: The materials are published in the order of art. 4, para. 13. 2. In para. 3 words according to the fulfilment of the conditions under art. 24, para. 1s and 1s shall be replaced by.. in accordance with the results of the consultation under art. 26, para. At the beginning of the closing session the candidates make a brief presentation on a topic selected by them, corresponding to the announced contest, and respond to the remarks mentioned in the reviews and opinions, as well as to the questions addressed to them by the members of the scientific jury. 3. In para. 4. (a) in the text before t. 1 the words............................................................................. 24, para. 1s are replaced by. under art. 26, para. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (b) c. 1: (aa) in (a) in (a) the words and (b) the words of the lecture courses shall be deleted; (bb) point (b) is repealed; (c) c. 2: (aa) in point (a) the words "sustaining in research projects," participations with reports of international and national scientific forums' shall be deleted; (bb) point (b) is repealed; (c) in point (c) the word "racionalisations' shall be replaced by "other intellectual property products'; (dd) point (d) is repealed; (d) c. 3: (aa) in the text prior to the letter (s), the word (s) shall be added to the text (s) after the word (s) of the artwork (s) or sports (s); (bb) point (s) is amended as follows: (s) participation in projects; membership of a creative or sports organisation (s); (c) in point (b) after the word (s) the art (s) shall be added (s) or athletic achievements (s).
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u75	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 26, which shall become § 25. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u76	Under § 27, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs The Commission shall support the proposal, which shall be reflected in its respective systematic place in § 30. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Stanislava Stoyanova according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27a the following additions are made: 1. In para. The second sentence after the word "Selections" is added, including the way of voting, after the word "Organization" is added, and the second sentence is created: "In higher schools only members of the faculty council who are habilitated persons and persons with the educational and scientific degrees of Doctor and/or the scientific degree of Doctor of Sciences" participate in the voting, and in the scientific organizations, respectively the members of the Scientific Council. 2. The creation of para. 3: The Faculty, the Scientific Council, may, by reasoned decision, reject the proposal made by the Scientific Jury on the basis of the speeches made.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u77	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 27, which shall become § 26. They voted 103 MPs: for 102, against 1, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u78	Under § 28, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 is finally added which for the specialties of regulated professions must be of the same specialty. (b) To be created t. 5 and 6: It's five o'clock. meet the minimum national requirements under art. 2b, para. 2 and 3, respectively, to the requirements of art. 2b, para. 5; 6. not to have proven plagiarism in scientific works by legal order. 2. A new para is being created. 3: The applicant shall provide a reference for the fulfilment of the minimum national requirements under art. 2b, para. 2 and 3, respectively, to the requirements of art. 2b, para. 5 and a reference to the original scientific contributions to which the relevant evidence laid down in this Law applies in the Rules of its application and the regulations of higher schools and scientific organisations. 3. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u79	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 28, which shall become § 27. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u80	Under § 29, there is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs: The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: In the cases referred to in art. 4, para. Article 11 shall apply. 26, para. 4 and 5
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u81	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 29, which shall become § 28. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u82	According to § 30, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 29, in which it shall. 3 in the letter "in the letter "in the letter "in the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter of the letter The words "participations with reports in international and national scientific forums" in point (a) shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 29, with the amendments proposed by the Commission in the text and which were presented by the rapporteur. Vote 97 MPs: 93, none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u84	Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29c the following amendments and additions are made: 1. They're creating an al. 1, 2 and 3: The Faculty, respectively the Scientific Council, may be ruled on procedures for taking up the academic position only if at least one third of the members of the Board with the right to vote is by persons holding the academic position. (2) In the composition of the Council under para. 1 compulsory include the members of the faculty or scientific organisation concerned who take up the academic position..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (3) In case of failure to fulfil the condition under para. 1 for participation in the specific procedure for taking up the academic position of Professor can be attracted to external members who meet the requirements of para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 2. So far, text becomes para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u85	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 30 with a text which was presented by the rapporteur. Vote 98 MPs: 95 against 2, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u86	Under § 31, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. In the end, they are added to their compliance with the requirements of this Law, its Rules of Application and the regulations of higher schools, respectively of scientific organisations. 2. In para. 2 Finally, the words "country concerned' shall be replaced by a person concerned, covering: 1. infringements of the procedures carried out; 2. conflict of interest in the formation of the members of the scientific jury according to the order of this law; 3. existence of plagiarism in the thesis and submitted publications; 4. impreciseness of the scientific data presented. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The signal under para. 2 must contain the name, address and signature of the sender, a description of the infringements and an indication of the evidence supporting it. The time limit for the submission of the alert shall be the end of the relevant procedure. 4. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: Within three days of the signal being received under para. 2 The Minister of Education and Science shall issue an order to carry out an inspection, which shall include: 1. verification of the eligibility of the signal in accordance with the requirements of para. 2 and 3; 2. verification, in substance, of the alert concerning compliance with the requirements of this Law, its Rules of Application and the Rules of Higher Schools and Scientific Organizations, including the existence of plagiarism in the dissertation and/or publications presented in the relevant procedure, unworthy of the scientific data presented and/or conflict of interest in the formation of the compositions of the jury in accordance with this Law. 5. A new para is being created. 5 and para. 6.. 11: The check referred to in paragraph 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure set out in paragraph 1. 4 t. 1 shall be carried out by a committee which includes a legally binding lawyer and expert responsible for the activities of higher schools and scientific organisations. Within 7 days of the appointment of the Commission, the Commission shall deliver a reasoned opinion on the eligibility of the alert. (6) When the Committee under para. 5 expressed its opinion that the signal is admissible, the Minister of Education and Science, within three days of receipt of the opinion, commissioned the Committee on Academic Ethics to carry out the examination under para. 4 t. 2. (7) In the cases under para. 2, p. 1 and 2 the examination shall be carried out by the Committee on Academic Ethics in accordance with the rules of application of the law. (8) In the cases under para. 2, item H and 4 within 10 days the Committee on Academic Ethics shall determine for the specific procedure not less than three arbitrators who are habilitated persons from the register under art. 2a which: 1. have scientific degrees or are habilitated persons in the same specialty or professional direction; 2. have not participated in the relevant procedure in any other quality; 3. there is no conflict of interest with the person indicated in the signal under para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. There is no conflict of interest with a person giving the signal under para. 2. (9) The Committee on Academic Ethics shall rule within 30 days with a report to the Minister of Education and Science on the existence or absence of violations under para. 2, p. 1........................................................... The report on infringements under para. 2, p. 3 and 4 shall be drawn up on the basis of the views of each of the arbitrators. (10) In cases of necessity, the Minister of Education and Science may, by order, extend the term under para. Nine, but no more than 30 days. (11) Before ruling in the cases under para. 2, p. 2, 3 and 4 The Academic Ethics Commission shall enable the applicant who has submitted the evaluated work subject to the verification, respectively, to express his opinion on the person indicated in the alert for conflict of interest. 6. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 12 and in it: (a) A new sentence shall be created second: the Committee on Academic Ethics shall discuss those attached to the alert under para. 2 evidence, as well as any evidence presented by the persons under para. 11. b) The previous sentence second becomes the sentence third and is amended as follows: The check ends with the report under para. 9 which also contains findings on the regularity of each individual stage of the procedure
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u87	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Statements? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u88	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to start by saying that I liked much more the text of the importer at first reading of the Law, as the question of the infringement of the procedure and the plagiarism of the Commission, which created the Minister of Education, is generally resolved there and the specific cases put forward. As the procedure is described, it is not working for me and in practice whatever commission you appoint will not be able to resolve the issue of plagiarism. Why? Because you are saying that you will appoint three applicants, and these three arbitrators will do their reviews or their opinions. When we have plagiarism in the pure sense.. rewriting motamo, as one to one says, there are no problems there even you do not need arbitrators. But when this plagiarism is related to interplaying research, to interpretations of research by other authors, these three arbitrators, believe me, will never have the same opinion. These three reviews will be quite different because each of these arbitrators has an opinion on the matter. I would find it very difficult, or the Commission, which must then decide who is right and who is wrong, how the matter will be resolved. Look, it's another thing if the three arbitrators unite around one opinion and propose it, then we're really talking about some consensus on certain points of support and not all over the material. But when three people write different reviews and we need in some form the Commission to understand what is going on in the scientific area in which they are proposed, believe me, this is not going to happen. I therefore believe that this proposal is extremely inappropriate and will not create prerequisites to resolve the issue of plagiarism in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u89	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? Professor Stanilov's line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u90	Dear Mrs. Professor, we've made it look a little like a second juror here. If we leave only one arbitrator, only one reviewer to call him, the minister himself and the Ethics Committee itself can be accused of how to be unexecutive. When there are three of these, come on, to be super reviews, to give opinion and analysis, we can achieve objectivity. Otherwise, the assessment of the scientific product is generally extremely complex. So far in the world, no measurement of its value, evaluation has been found except in reviews and we have nothing else to do. You criticized us here that this is the kind of case we've developed, but you're not offering us anything, you mean you didn't say what to do. Bring in something better. But I think it's one of the good decisions, the possible solutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u91	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Another line? I won't. You have the floor for the coat, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u92	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Stanilov, all right, three arbitrators, but come up with one opinion. This is the proposal, not for everyone to have a separate opinion. There is no way to be one-to-one opinion in the same direction, knowing the scientific community, and each one of what capacity has to understand the problem or views on the particular issue. Therefore, if you have to look for a solution, say that there are three arbitrators who come up with a general opinion. So the three have taken and accepted in some form that there is a problem and they have expressed it as a single opinion if you are looking for a proposal. But each individual, believe me, the first procedure will have a problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u93	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u94	These three arbitrators, within the meaning of the Law, are not entitled to a final decision. After all, their opinions are expert and have the appearance of some council to the Committee on Academic Ethics itself. The Committee on Academic Ethics prepares this opinion and sends it to the Minister, who should send it if he agrees with it, to the Rector, respectively, of the Academic Council. That's the point of the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u95	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 31. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: 79, no objection, abstention 15. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u96	A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new §32: ........................................................ Article 3 is replaced by the following: H0a: Art. 30a. (1) A Committee on Academic Ethics shall be established with the Minister of Education and Science to examine the signals addressed to him concerning infringements of the procedures for the award of scientific degrees or the taking of academic posts, and with regard to signals of plagiarism in the thesis and the publications submitted for evaluation, the unworthy of the scientific data presented, a conflict of interest in the formation of the compositions of the jury in accordance with that law. (2) The Committee on Academic Ethics shall carry out its activities in accordance with this Law and by regulations issued by the Minister of Education and Science. (3) The Committee on Academic Ethics shall consist of five members, one of whom shall be a competent lawyer. The President and three of the members are representatives of the four scientific areas proposed by universities, scientific organisations, non-governmental organisations of scientists and social partners. They are habilitated persons included in the register under art. 2a, possessing an educational and scientific degree of Doctor and at least a 10-year internship in the specialty. (4) The position of Chairman and Member of the Committee on Academic Ethics is incompatible with the occupation of the Rector, Vice-Rector, Dean and/or Director of a subsidiary in a higher school, respectively Chairman, Vice-President and Director of the Institute of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy. (5) The President or a member of the Committee on Academic Ethics shall be released in: 1. the receipt of his written application; 2. systematic failure of obligations; 3. actual inability to perform the job that lasted more than six months; 4. incompatibility with the positions and requirements of para. 4; 5. the entry into force of an act establishing a conflict of interest; 6. by decision of the Minister of Education and Science. (6) The decision to release a President or a Member of the Committee on Academic Ethics shall be taken by the Minister of Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Statements? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u98	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In practice, we create a three-step structure that starts with a jury, a committee to the Minister of Education, and then we have the Ethics Committee. First of all, I would like to ask the importers who made this proposal, the committee itself, as Mrs Damyanova said just now on the occasion of my proposal relating to minimum payments, that there should be motivation, apart from this, there should be economic estimates in this complex structure that requires additional funds, have these estimates been made? I am concerned that the Minister of Education decides on the second stage of the procedure with a different type of committees. Apart from that, there is absolutely nothing to say how this committee will be formed, what mandate it has. Thus, as it is written, it means that the Minister of Education can at any time replace this committee because it is not said that this committee has a term of office of two years, three years, four years. The rules showing the Commission's release mean that this committee can at any time be recalled accordingly if it does not make the right decisions, which can also be a motive provided that all decisions are taken precisely by the Ministry of Education and Science of a procedure concerning the scientific community. I would like to say in general that it is good in law to lay down rules that work against systematic violations of choice and also plagiarism. My fellow Members, I am under the impression that the whole law is being done against plagiarism, but this is not the main problem of science and growing up in science, because if this has appeared as a problem in recent years, we need to take measures, but we are changing the whole law by saying that those who are dealing with science, the main thing they are doing is copying. The problem in science is its funding and sustainability of scientific personnel, and not just the plagiarism that the Law is fighting against. You may have information on who plagiarates are and how they do it, but only one I think is convicted, others are not. And in this way, we, making these decisions related mainly to plagiarism, personally, seem to me that it is quite offensive that the emphasis falls on this particular problem, but I still wish that when such proposals are written and proposed, they will be with a sufficiently clear concept of what will be in the rules. Thus written, the rules can sign whatever they want with regard to the members of the Ethics Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u99	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? For a line, Professor Stanilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u100	You can't read the law like the devil reads the gospel. It is not true that the Law is made mainly because of plagiarism and we have concentrated on plagiarism because there are numerous such cases, and such cases have happened before. This one, first. Secondly, this Ethical Commission, which in its original form was to the Council of Ministers and there was a committee of appeal, we agreed at the insistence of the Ministry to go to the Minister of Education and Science so as not to burden the Council of Ministers with non-existent activities. The meaning of the Law is not what you are talking about, Mrs. Bachvarova, but the meaning of the Law is to bring the state back into control in the development of the academic community, to have some control and most importantly to have an appellation, to have a place to complain, because until now the appeal was in court and nowhere in the world, and you have heard it from my mouth many times, nowhere in the world the court determines who is a scientist and who is not. I just don't have words to say anymore!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u101	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Another line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u102	You voted in the Commission for the European Parliament! In the Commission, you all voted for the Commission! And now you're going out here and wasting the National Assembly's time to counter it. You stubborn...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u103	Thank you, Professor Stoilov. If you want...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u104	Why didn't you deny it there? Aren't you embarrassed?! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u105	Thank you, Professor Stoilov. Is there another line? For the second line please, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will tell the microphone what Professor Stanilov said about voting in the Commission. All these texts were voted unanimous after many debates, after many working groups, including representatives of the academic community, trade unions, representatives of the Rectors Council in the face of the President of the Council of Rectors, the Rector of Sofia University. The law has been under review for a long time. I would disagree with you, Professor Bachvarova, that a three-step structure is being created. You've got it all wrong. The last commission, which is to the Minister, first of all, that it has the functions of an advisory board, and, second of all, do you know how many complaints are going into the Ministry, including the Committee on Education and Science, to which we cannot at the moment in practice respond to either the Commission or the Minister. And these are mainly complaints from young people, young people who are not admitted for one reason or another to go along the path of their academic growth, and in this sense I think that this is how we create transparency, restore trust in the procedures for academic growth and give real guarantee to young people that these procedures will be transparent and will be in their interest. This is the purpose of the Law, not to create a three-step or I do not know what structure to obtain relevant degrees, to occupy academic positions. Transparency and control! Let people really have where to complain so that we can also ensure the transparency of procedures in their growth and, therefore, the transparency at all of what is happening in academic circles.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u107	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Third line? There's no third line. Here's your coat, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Professor Stanilov, does that mean I don't have the right to an opinion on this? I'm not a member of the Commission. Are you telling me that I cannot speak in this House on something that you unanimously accepted in the Commission?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u109	I didn't mean to tell you that at all!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u110	That's what you meant! Apart from that, I began by saying that the importer liked the text much more than what you wrote during the discussion in the committee itself. You know what's gonna happen? Your option is better, because in so-called procedures there will be no procedure, the mine through a jury that is not challenged by anyone! Believe me! The avalanche will be huge! You say a lot of complaints are coming to you. Well, tell me how many complaints there are and for what, because at the end of the day, when you're saying a lot, say five, six, ten times the procedures that have passed, there are objections, and that's why we accept this option. It's not three-step, but it's at three levels, first of all, we complain to the Minister, he decides through a relevant committee, which is of two people, it's written, a committee of two will probably stay, because a third or fourth one is not told which one can be, decides whether the signal is admissible. Then, when it's admissible, it goes to the Ethics Committee, which I don't know what it's gonna do, and what do you do after all? Do you understand? This procedure will create extremely many problems, because the avalanche of objections will be huge. I've been in a scientific community, I've worked and I know what I'm talking about, but since you still want to put in order that I'm about, I still think the offer of an importer was better than those scheduled texts. And that's my opinion. I'm going to vote really in conscience for what I think is right and what is working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u111	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u112	I have never denied anyone the right to express their own opinion on this tribune, but we are now talking about quite other things. Maybe the original proposal was really better. I'm his author, and if I wrote it, then I think it's better. That's what I told you, ma'am, in a private conversation. That's what we've all been able to accomplish. Thus we were able to make a consensus in order to adopt the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria. How will these two-step and three-step work? All scientific communities work on two or three degrees. It's a big deal. In one scientific organization first passes through the Department or through a section, then goes to the Scientific Council and then goes to the following procedures as scheduled in the Law. These two or three degrees are in each scientific community, regardless of where they are located in Bulgaria or elsewhere. It's complicated, but research itself is complicated. There's no doubt about it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u113	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. - What's the line? There are no lines. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new article. 32 with a text which the Commission proposes and which was presented by the rapporteur. They voted 99 MPs: 82, against 7, abstention 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u114	Under § 32, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 32, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 shall be added at the end of a three-day period from the expiry of the period referred to in Article 1. 30, para. 6.................................................................................. 2. In para. The second sentence shall first be deleted. 3. In para. 5 the words "or a deputy minister's authority" shall be deleted. 4. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: When the conditions under para. 4 and the Minister did not issue an order to resume after the one-month period of suspension, the procedure may be resumed by the Rector of the Higher School, respectively by the Head of the Scientific Organization. 5. They're creating an al. 7 and 8: In cases of infringement by the Committee on Academic Ethics and in cases of non-resolving of infringements under art. 30, para. 2, p. 1 and 2, when the relevant evidence is not presented within the period under para. 4 as well as in the presence of plagiarism in the thesis and the publications submitted for evaluation or indecentness of the presented scientific data, the Minister of Education and Science shall issue an order for termination of the relevant procedure. (8) In the case of systematic violations in the conduct of the procedures for the acquisition of scientific degrees and for the holding of academic positions, as well as in the event of failure to comply with the orders under para. 2 to remedy detected violations in the conducted procedures, the Minister of Education and Science proposes the withdrawal of the programme accreditation of the relevant PhD programmes of the higher school or the scientific organisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u115	Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to make you an announcement about the presence of the balcony in the plenary hall of a delegation of the Friendship Group Macedonia, led by the Vice-President of the Assembly of the Republic of Macedonia, Frosina Tashevska. Let's welcome them. [[Applause.]] We're continuing work on the report. Statements under § 33? Here you are, Mrs. Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u116	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want to make an addition to para. 8: The Ministry of Education and Science proposes withdrawing the program accreditation of the relevant doctoral programs of the higher school or the scientific organization of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. Who's he proposing to? She's one, but she has to take her.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u117	Instead of point of the last sentence of para. 8, to add to the National Assessment and Accreditation Agency. Any lines to the statement? Here you are, Professor Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Professor Klisarova, there is no point in this proposal. Programme accreditations are generally given to the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency. There's no point in legal tautology. We've just announced that the Law and I have to comply with the law. There's no point in this thing, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u119	Is there another line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Professor Klisarova, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u120	I withdraw the offer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u121	Please state it from the stands so the protocol is complete.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u122	Honourable President, honourable Members, I withdraw the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u123	Are there any other statements on the text of Paragraph 33 discussed? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the wording of Paragraph 33 of the Commission's version. They voted 102 MPs: 100, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u124	Under § 33, there is a proposal from the National Representative Milen Mihov, made in accordance with Article 33. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 34. Mr. Chairman, before I report the text and the editing, I would like to note that there is a technical error in the paragraphs and I will read the new ones directly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u125	If the technical error is obvious, read the new ones with the corrected technical error and we will pay attention to the MPs that we are doing this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The creation of a new one here is the first technical error: to read "al." 1 and 2 and para. From 3 "7" instead of what is written in the Report "create" para. 1 and para. 2.. 9..:.......................................................................................... The orders of the Rector of the Higher School, respectively the Head of the Scientific Organization for the occupation of academic positions and the acts for the award of scientific degrees, may be challenged by administrative order before the Minister of Education and Science for violations under art. 30, para. 2, p. 1........................................................... (2) The proceedings before the Minister of Education and Science shall begin on a complaint by the person concerned lodged through the higher school or the scientific organisation within 14 days of notification of the adopted acts under para. 1. (3) The Rector of the Higher School, respectively the Head of the Scientific Organization, may cancel the Act under para. 1 after having received an opinion on the complaint from the faculty, the Scientific Council accordingly. The opinion shall be adopted in order laid down in the rules of higher education, respectively, of scientific organisations. (4) If the Rector, respectively, the head of the scientific organisation shall not cancel the act of incorporation under para. 1, it shall forward the complaint and all documentation with its opinion to the Minister of Education and Science within 14 days of receipt of the complaint. (5) Within one month of receipt of the documents under para. 4 The Minister of Education and Science organizes an inspection according to the order of art. 30, para. 4? 12. (6) Within the term referred to in art. 30, para. 9 The Academic Ethics Committee shall adopt a reasoned report which it shall send to the Minister of Education and Science. In its report, the Commission proposes to: 1. confirm the adopted act of the university or scientific organisation, or 2. cancel the adopted act, and it is sent for consideration in a new procedure by another Chamber of the Scientific Jury. (7) The Minister of Education and Science shall issue an order in accordance with the proposal in the report under para. 6 confirming or canceling the administrative act of the higher school or the scientific organisation for the holding of academic positions or the acquisition of the educational and scientific degree of the doctor or the scientific degree of the PhD. 2. So far, para.1 becomes para. 8 and amended as follows: (8) All acts of the higher school bodies, the scientific organisation for the acquisition of a degree or for the holding of academic positions under this law, as well as the orders of the Minister of Education and Science issued in connection with the exercise of his powers under Chapter Four, may be appealed before the court under the terms and conditions of the Administrative Procedure Code. 3. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 9 and is amended so.. here is the second technical error. Read: The appeal of the acts referred to in paragraph 1 shall be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union. 8 does not stop their 4. The creation of para. 10: In the case of some of the grounds under art. 99 of the Administrative Procedure Code relating to infringements under art. 30, para. 2, p. 1. 4 for the entry into force of acts for the acquisition of scientific degrees and for the holding of academic positions under this law, the proceedings under the relevant procedures may be resumed in accordance with Chapter 7 of the Administrative Procedure Code, and the examination shall be carried out by the Commission under academic ethics under art. 30, para. 5? 12. The alerts shall be issued after knowledge by the interested parties of the infringements committed under art. 30, para. 2, p. 1...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u127	Are there any statements on the reported text with the two corrections to technical errors introduced? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. We shall proceed to the vote on the wording of § 33, which shall become § 34, in the version of the Commission with the corrections made in the Report. 99 MPs voted: 95, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u128	The Commission proposes to create a new § 35: .............................................................................. A new article shall be created. 33: Art. 33. In the event of a conflict of interest when drawing up the scientific jury in accordance with that law, the persons concerned shall not be entitled to participate as members of a scientific jury for 3 years from the date of entry into force of the act establishing a conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Are there any speeches on the proposal to create a new art. 33? I can't see. We are going to vote on the wording of § 35 in the version of the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 95, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u130	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." where it is demonstrated by the legal order of plagiarism or indecentness of the scientific data presented in scientific works on the basis of which it has acquired or participated in a procedure for the acquisition of a scientific degree or has taken up or participated in a competition for the holding of an academic position. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 1, t. 1 shall also be taken away from the scientific degree acquired under this law to which the infringement relates. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The removal of a scientific degree and dismissal shall be carried out by the Rector of the Higher School under the Law on Higher Education and the rules of the Higher School, respectively by the Head of the Scientific Organization in accordance with the rules of the Organisation concerned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u131	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the reported text of § 34, which becomes § 36, as proposed by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u132	Proposal by the National Representative Stanislava Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ Article 36 is amended as follows: Art. 36. In the event of dismissal from academic position under art. 35, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 and the withdrawal of a scientific degree under art. 35, para. 2 all personal rights of the person arising from the scientific degree and academic position shall be deemed to be revoked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u133	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the wording of Paragraph 37 as proposed by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u134	According to § 35 there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Stanislav Stanilov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 38: ....................... 38........................................................... The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) To be created t. 2a: It's 2a. A conflict of interest shall exist where a member of a jury or associated persons has a private interest which may influence the impartial and objective performance of his or her powers or duties in relation to his or her participation in the proceedings concerned. b) To be created t. 7 - 21: 7. Plagiarism is a presentation for own works which are written in whole or in part or created by others or the use of published scientific results, without reference or quoting in the procedures for acquiring scientific degrees or for occupying academic positions. 8. The rules on the conduct of the procedures under this law, the procedure for control of them and the minimum national requirements on professional fields for the acquisition of scientific degrees and the occupying of academic positions laid down in this law and in the Rules for its implementation are uniform state requirements. 9. "Refered and indexed editions" are editions in which the articles are published after an anonymous review and which are part of the international research space and are referred and indexed in world-famous scientific data databases. 10. A scientific publication has been published, which contains a complete and comprehensive study of a particular subject, problem or person written by one or several authors sticking to the same view. Monography is a scientific work that does not repeat or summarize existing knowledge, which has a scientific editor and/or scientific reviewers, owns ISBN and is in a volume of not less than 100 standard pages with 1800 characters per page. It contains unfolded content, comprehensive bibliography, with references to other scientific works in the text. 11. The main text of scientific work, which has a scientific editor and/or scientific reviewers, and which deals with a separate problem or issue of the common theme, defined in the title or marked by a number published in a non-periodical scientific publication, which has the ISSN or ISBN respectively. It can be from one or several authors. 12. There is a scientific study published in a magazine, a collection or a separate one, which deals with certain aspects of problems and issues, there is a scientific editor and/or scientific reviewers, respectively ISSN or ISBN, and its volume is from 20 to 99 standard pages with 1800 characters per page. 13. A research study has been published in a magazine, a collection, or alone, making a critical review of published literature on a particular scientific problem, possessing ISSN or ISBN, respectively, and its volume is from 10 to 99 standard pages with 1800 characters per page. 14. A scientific work meeting the requirements of this article has been published. 12, which contains a description of original research and is in volume up to 20 standard pages with 1800 characters per page. 15. It is a reference to a scientific publication of the author in another scientific publication or patent. The reference to a publication shall be considered as a single citation, no matter how many places in the text it has been made. 16. It is a quote in which the quoted and quoted publication has at least one common author. 17. It is a deliberate use of non-true and/or manipulated output data in the creation of scientific work. 18. "Habilitated persons" are: (a) the persons who occupy or have occupied the academic positions of a professor or professor, with the exception of the persons referred to in art. 36; (b) the persons who have acquired a PhD, respectively, a Senior Research Fellow, or a PhD Professor, respectively, a Senior Research Fellow I, within the meaning of the repealed Law on Scientific Degrees and Scientific Awards. 19. "Faculty Council" is the body of art. 26, para. 2 of the Law on Higher Education. 20. The Scientific Council is the body composed of habilitated persons and defined in the establishment acts of scientific organisations or of higher schools. 21. A person concerned is any person who has acquired a scientific degree in the relevant professional direction or who is a habilitated person under the heading. 18......................................................................... 2. Paragraph 2a and 2b are inserted: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the indicators referred to in art. 2b, para. 2 can be included publications and quotes in publications with scientific review which are not referenced and indexed, as the articles and quotes are referred to articles and quotes in referencing and indexed editions through corresponding numerical values of compliance. § 2b. In the application of art. 24, para. 1, t. 3 in separate professional fields, according to their specifics, only monograph work may be allowed without its equalisation to equivalent publications in specialized scientific publications. 3. Paragraph 3a is inserted: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Decisions relating to the conduct of the procedures for the holding of academic positions under this law in subsidiaries and main units of higher schools, except faculties, shall be adopted by the academic board of the relevant university. 3. Paragraph 4a, 4b and 4c shall be inserted: .................................................................................. (1) The Minister of Education and Science through the National Information and Documentation Centre shall maintain a list of contemporary Bulgarian scientific publications, referred and indexed in world-renowned scientific data databases, as well as carry out relevant reports on foreign scientific publications, referred and indexed in world-famous scientific data bases. (2) The Minister of Education and Science through the National Information and Documentation Centre shall establish and maintain a National Reference List of contemporary Bulgarian scientific publications with scientific review. § 4b. Military Academies and Higher Military Schools shall apply the provisions of this Law to the extent that nothing else is provided for in the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. § 4c. Signals on the existence of plagiarism and/or lack of credibility of the scientific data presented with regard to completed procedures for the acquisition of scientific titles and for the taking of academic positions under this law, as well as for the acquisition of scientific degrees and scientific titles under the repealed Law on scientific degrees and scientific titles shall be examined and verified by 30, para. 5 " 12 of this Law. "
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u135	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. Ladies and gentlemen, are there any speeches on the reported text? I suggest, if there is, we proceed to the discussion after the break, but I do not see any willing. If there isn't, we'll vote. I put to the vote § 38 on the Commission report, with the clarification made by Mrs Zaharieva on the name of the Committee on Ethics when submitting the report. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. A 30-minute break. We'll continue at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u136	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the Second Reading Report! Mrs. Zaharieva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Under § 36, there is a proposal from the National Representative Milena Damyanova, made in accordance with Article 36. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. Paragraph 9b shall be inserted in the Transitional and Final Provisions: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. (1) Where the degree diploma or certificate of scientific rank issued in accordance with art. 34 (e) of the repealed Law on scientific degrees and scientific titles have been lost, destroyed, damaged or become unfit for use, the National Centre for Information and Documentation to the Minister of Education and Science shall issue a certificate which shall necessarily contain the three names of the person, the scientific degree or scientific qualification, the scientific speciality, the date and number of the diploma or certificate. (2) The certificate under para. 1 shall be issued at the request of the person and, in the case of documentation showing that the document lost, destroyed, damaged or become unfit for use has been issued. (3) The certificates under para. 1 shall be issued according to a model approved by the Minister of Education and Science. (4) The holders of a certificate under para. 1 enjoy the rights of holders of a degree diploma or a certificate of scientific rank issued under art. 34 (e) of the repealed Law on Scientific Degrees and Scientific Awards.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u138	Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the text proposed by the Commission for § 36, which becomes § 39. Vote 74 MPs: 70, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u139	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u140	We are voting on the name "Transitional and final provisions." Vote 78 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u141	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u142	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the importing text of § 37, supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 82, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u143	Under § 38, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. All materials of the completed until the entry into force of this law, conducted under the terms and conditions of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, shall be published on public access on the website of the relevant university or scientific organization in accordance with art. 4, para. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u144	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the wording of § 38, which becomes § 41, in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: 80, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u145	Under § 39, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 39, which shall become § 42: .............................................................................. Within three months of the entry into force of this law: 1. The Council of Ministers shall amend and supplement: (a) Rules of Procedure under art. 2b, para. 3; (b) the classification of the fields of higher education and professional fields. 2. Minister of Education and Science: (a) issue the ordinance under art. 2a, para. 9; (b) (c) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) Mr. Chairman, I want you to read it here. It's 10 and not all. 9..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u146	Instead of "al." 9 "Read.................................................................................................... I note the correction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u147	(b) amend and supplement the rules on the structure and operation of the National Information and Documentation Centre; (c) issue the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on Academic Ethics and determine the composition and subject to the requirements of this Law; (d) create the National Reference List of contemporary Bulgarian scientific publications with scientific review.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u148	Are there any statements on the reported text? Here you are, Mrs. Damyanova. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u149	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I would rather make an amendment to the Commission's text. After discussing and clarifying with the Ministry of Education and Science and colleagues in the holidays in relation to issues arising, and regarding the entry into force of the Law, I propose that, within three months of the entry into force of this Act, be replaced by
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u150	Excuse me, just to clarify the type that acquires the paragraph: Within three months of entry....to be done within two months....
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u151	That's right. This is the version of this paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u152	In this text, only this is the amendment. I will put it to the vote because it is still a change that is being proposed in plenary. Any lines to the statement? I won't. We are going to vote on the text under consideration. Firstly, I am voting on the proposal made by Mrs Damyanova in the wording of § 42 to change the time limit from the three months to the two months proposed in the version of the Commission. We are voting on a proposal from the MP Mrs. Damyanova. Vote 87 MPs: 81, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the text by importer in an version proposed by the Commission, with regard to the amendments that have just been voted on on on a proposal from the National Representative Milena Damyanova. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u153	Under § 40, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 40, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... Within 6 months of the entry into force of this Act, higher schools and scientific organisations shall: 1. align their rules in accordance with the requirements of this law and its implementing rules; 2. adopt the European Charter for Researchers, the Code of Conduct for the Selection of Researchers and the Ethical Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u154	Are there any statements on the proposed wording of § 40? I don't see anyone who wants to. We are going to vote on the text by importer, supported by the Commission and in the version proposed by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u155	Under § 41, there is a proposal from the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 2 and does not support the proposal under point 2. 1 in para. 1 the word "six months' is replaced by "three months'. Proposal by the MP Milena Damyanova and Stanislav Stanilov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 41, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... (1) The National Information and Documentation Centre of the Minister of Education and Science shall form the Register under art. 2a from the electronic database for protected dissertation works and for the habilitated persons in the Republic of Bulgaria, which is brought into compliance with the requirements of this law within 6 months of its entry into force. (2) Within the term under para. 1 higher schools, scientific organisations or persons under art. 2a, para. 7 provide references, respectively declarations of the circumstances under art. 2a, para. 5 and compliance with the minimum national requirements under art. 2b, para. 2 and 3 indicating the individual numerical values of the indicators, reflecting their scientific achievements and/or the indicators reflecting their achievements in artistic or sports activities, as well as the indicators reflecting the academic achievements in teaching activities. (3) Until the obligations under para. 2 The composition of the scientific jury under art. 4, para. 4 is formed in the current order. (4) The persons who, within the term under para. 2 do not meet the minimum national requirements under art. 2b, para. 2 and 3 shall be entered in the register referred to in Article 3. 2a after submission of evidence that they have achieved compliance with them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u156	Are there any speeches? I don't see any MPs who want to make a speech. I put to the vote a proposal received by the MP Svetla Bachvarova, which is not supported in one part, namely: a proposal for a change in the text proposed by the Commission to para. 1 the word "six months" shall be replaced by "three months." We are voting first on this proposal by the MP Svetla Bachvarova. They voted 96 MPs: 21, Against 14, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of § 41, which becomes § 44, on the Commission report in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 84, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u157	Under § 42, there is a proposal from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova, made in accordance with Article 42. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 45: § 45. In the Law on Higher Education (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 6 point (d) is inserted: (d) where plagiarism has been established with regard to the Rector of the Higher School in scientific works on the basis of which a scientific degree has been acquired or an academic position has been taken or where the Rector has failed to discharge his/her duties under art. 58, para. 1, t. 4 person found to be plagiarism in the line of business. (b) A new item shall be created. 8. It's 8 o'clock. exercise control over higher schools and organizations under art. 47, para. 1 on compliance with the requirements of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, under conditions and by order defined therein; information on the checks carried out and the results thereof shall be published on the websites of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Higher School, respectively the scientific organization. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42, para. 1 is created t. 3: "3." 3rd degree after the acquired educational and qualification degree Master, with a period of preparation and independent research work as defined in art. 8, para. 2 of the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria, and the graduates are awarded an educational and scientific degree. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53, para. 2 the words "selection" and "selection" are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u158	Are there any speeches? Professor Klisarova, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u159	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'd like to withdraw my offer under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Rector of the universities is elected by the General Assembly and his employer is the President of the General Assembly. At this point, we should also not eliminate that there are faculties and there is a dean. Dean is also elected by the General Assembly of the Faculty. Therefore, I propose to amend § 45 so that in art. 10, para. 2, p. 6 to drop the words when regarding the Rector of the Higher School the plagiarism is established, we should not say that only the Rectors are plagias on the basis of which the scientific degree or occupied academic position is acquired, but to do in art. 58, para. 1, t. 4 shall be added after the words by order of the Rector, or by decision of the authority which has appointed them. This means that, when plagiarism is established, the Dean, Rector, or any other member, when appointed by the General Assembly body, must be released from that body. To clarify: in the event of non-compliance with these rules, then the Minister has the right to propose the withdrawal of the programme accreditation in the given specialty. Thank you. I've got it in writing and I'll bring it in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u160	Thank you. It has become a little more complicated, we will have to put it to the vote, as this proposal of yours you are withdrawing is recognised by the Commission, it is included in the report and is present in the text of the Commission. We will put your proposal to a separate vote. Are there any lines to the statement? I don't see any lines. Professor Stanilov, are you speaking? [[Noise and clarification.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u161	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I recognise the withdrawn text and insist it be voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u162	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. The text is present in the Commission's proposal, in the version which is of the attention of the Members of the National Assembly. Are there any other speeches on the subject discussed? [[Noise, lines and details.]] There is an offer to invite the representatives of the Ministry to take part in the discussion. Do you have the opportunity and desire, of course, to take account of the texts? Here you are, as far as the issue has gained expertise, we are ready to listen to your opinion. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u163	Thank you. The ministry supports the text as it was adopted at the Commission meeting at the time with full consensus from all who attended and who was now re-enlisted as a proposal by Professor Stanilov. This is an extremely important text, because at the moment we, not as the Ministry, but as a country, are faced with the absurd situation of the Law allowing a rector of a higher school caught in plagiarism to be in no way sanctioned, because the Law practically requires him to dump himself. To think that the General Assembly can do this job if teachers are dependent on such a teacher, he has passed a choice in the General Assembly, is naive and means not to see things in their real light. If we want change, if we want the Bulgarian education system to be normal, to be by world and European standards, we must take this step. Bear in mind that this law, as it was proposed here, went through a very hard discussion in the Commission, very hard, and everyone involved in the discussions realized that they were taking one big step for their country because we are solving problems accumulated for decades and we are making Bulgarian education, Bulgarian higher education from a heavy swamp in which it has entered. Our appeal to the Ministry is to strongly support Professor Stanilov's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u164	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. Are there any speeches by MPs on the text discussed? If there is not, we shall proceed to his vote, and first of all we shall vote on the proposal that has been made in today's sitting. Mrs. Damyanova, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, on behalf of our parliamentary group in order to specify the texts with colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria and with colleagues from the Ministry, we want a 20-minute break.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u166	There's an opportunity for this vacation. I'm calling a 20-minute break. The sitting continues at 12.50. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u167	Dear colleagues, take your seats. We are continuing our work. We suspended the hearing during the examination of § 45. Are there any speeches on the proposed texts by the Commission and the text proposed by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova? I don't see any requests for speeches. Let's move on to the vote. Honourable Members of Parliament, we shall proceed to the vote on the proposal by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova for amendment and supplement of § 45 of the Commission Report in art. 10, para. 2, p. 6 drop the words when plagiarism is established with regard to the Rector of the Higher School in scientific works, on the basis of which a scientific degree has been acquired or an academic position is occupied and at the end of § 45 to be established. 4. "4." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 58, para. 1, t. 4 shall be added after the words by order of the Rector, or by decision of the authority which made them. Please vote. We vote on Professor Klisarova's proposal. [[Noise and lines.]] There are non-voting MPs, I'll wait... Please cancel the vote. I see there are unvoked MPs. We are going again to vote on the same text proposed by Professor Klisarova. Please vote. They voted 96 MPs: 20, against 38, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of § 42, which becomes § 45, in the version proposed by the Commission, including the text supported by Professor Stanilov in today's sitting. Please vote. They voted 99 MPs: 84, against 13, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mrs. Damyanova, you have the floor. You made a commitment to make a proposal, that's probably what this is about.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u168	Yes, Mr. President, I almost made the proposal in my previous speech, but here is the time to put it to the vote. I'm making a proposal to create a new § 46 that sounds like this: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The law shall enter into force one month after its promulgation in the Official Journal. This is once again in order to synchronise deadlines and enable the development of regulations, and in order not to create prerequisites for blocking procedures for academic growth.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u169	Thank you, Mrs. Damyanova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any comments on the proposal made? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposal of the National Representative Milena Damyanova for the creation of a new § 46 for the entry into force of the Law one month after its promulgation in the Official Journal. Please vote. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The proposal to create a new § 46 has been accepted. With this we concluded the vote at the second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Chamber in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u170	We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR CONDITIONS AND PROCUREMENT OF CANDIDATES, PRESENTATION AND PUBLIC DISCLOSURE OF DOCUMENTS, RECOGNITION OF CANDIDATES IN THE COMMISSION FOR CORRUPTION FIGHTING, CONFLICATION OF INTERESTS AND PARLIAMENT ELECTRICITY AND THE SELECTION OF A REFUNDER AND THREE MEMBERS OF THE COMMISSION FOR THE PROCEEDANCE OF CORRUPTION AND FOR THE REFUNCTION OF NON-CONFICIOUS PROFESSIONALITY. Here you are, Mr. Valkov, to present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u171	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing candidates in the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics and election of Vice-President and three members of the Anti-Corruption Commission and withdrawing illegally acquired property The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission at its meeting held on 15 March 2018 discussed procedural rules for conducting a public procedure on the basis of art. 93 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly for the election of President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. On the basis of art. 9 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, the National Assembly elects Vice-President and members of the Commission on a proposal from the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. In accordance with art. 93, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be made following a public procedure. The procedure shall be conducted on the basis of the rules of procedure adopted by the National Assembly drawn up by the committee responsible for each election, according to art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. On the basis of art. 9 in connection with Art. 35 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property, the procedural rules to be validated by the National Assembly shall also apply the following declarations: Annex No 1 "In writing consent of the applicant to be proposed for the post of Vice-President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property; Annex No 2 "In writing consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position of a member of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of the illegally acquired property; Annex No 3 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the Declaration of Membership of Bulgarian Citizens to the State Security and Intelligence Services of the Bulgarian People's Army; Annex No 4............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The following MPs were treated by the procedural rules: Boris Yachev, Milko Nedyalkov, Kristina Sidorova and Ihsan Hakki. Following the debates, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission, with 7 votes for abstentions, 2 votes for abstentions, and without acknowledgment, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision: ? RESPONSIBILITY? adopting procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing candidates in the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics and the election of Vice-President and three members of the Commission for the Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 8, para. Article 6 in conjunction with Article 6 9 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and art. 93 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates in the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics and the election of Vice-President and three members of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. I. Offering candidates and submitting documents to candidates for Vice-President and three members of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 1. Proposals for candidates for Vice-President and three Commissioners for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property shall be made by the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. The proposals shall be submitted in writing through the National Assembly's case-law to the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics within 7 days of the adoption of these rules by the National Assembly. 2. The proposals shall contain written reasons justifying the high professional and moral qualities of the candidates. The following documents shall apply to the proposals: - the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position in the template "Annex 1' or "No 2' to the decision; - written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex 3" to the Decision; - detailed professional CV; - a copy of documents for completed higher legal or economic education, as well as a certificate of legal capacity for Vice-President; - a copy of documents for completed higher education, with an educational-qualification degree - evidence of criminality; - documents certifying that the applicant meets the requirements for internship under art. 8, para. 3 and 4 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property. 3. Within 7 days of the publication of the applications, each candidate shall submit to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics: - a written concept of his work as a member of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in paper and electronic media; - declaration of incompatibility on a template established by the selection authority - a statement of assets and interests on a template established by the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. II. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The proposals, together with the documents referred to in Section I, shall be published within two working days of receipt of them on the website of the National Assembly. 2. The publication of the proposals and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use, higher schools and scientific organisations may present to the Commission for the fight against corruption, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics opinions on the candidate, including issues to be put to him. The opinions and questions are sent by post to the city of Sofia, Knyaz Aleksandar I: No 1, the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, or by e-mail: anticorruption@parliament.bg no later than seven days before the hearing of the candidates. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 4. Opinions and questions shall be published within three days of their receipt on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. III. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. 1. Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the President of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics. 2. The results of the verification shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. IV. Check for admission of applicants to a hearing. 1. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Commission at a separate meeting prior to the hearing shall verify whether all the necessary documents have been presented and whether the proposed candidates meet the requirements for taking up the post of Vice-President and members of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for withdrawing illegally acquired property. 2. Where the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission finds that the applicant has not submitted all the necessary documents, it shall inform it that it may present them within 5 days of notification. 3. No applicants who have not submitted the documents under Section I or who do not meet the requirements of art. 8, para. 3 and 4 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the forfeiture of illegally acquired property. 4. Following the verification, the Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Commission shall draw up a list of candidates for Vice-President and members of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property admitted to hearing. The list shall be drawn up in alphabetical order on the names of the candidates for Vice-President and members of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property and shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. V. Hearing of eligible candidates for Vice-President and three members of the Anti-Corruption Commission and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 1. The hearing is held at an open meeting of the Commission for Combating Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics, which is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. 2. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee only listens to the candidates admitted on their order on the list. 3. The President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property presents the applicant in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. The applicant shall be given the opportunity to supplement data from his professional biography and present his concept of work as Vice-President or Commissioner for Countering Corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property in an exhibition within 15 minutes for each candidate. 5. Members of the National Assembly may ask questions to the applicant, including those of the opinions received from non-profit legal entities registered for public use activities, universities and scientific organisations. Question statement time is up to two minutes. 6. Each candidate shall be given the right to answer after asking a question to him. The time to answer each question is up to two minutes. 7. A full stenographic protocol shall be drawn up from the hearing, which shall be published on the website of the National Assembly. 8. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interests and Parliamentary Ethics Committee shall submit to the National Assembly a detailed and reasoned report from the hearing, to which a list of candidates participating in the hearing shall be attached, alphabetically arranged for their own names. The report shall also be accompanied by draft decisions on the election of Vice-President and members of the Commission for countering corruption and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. VI. Election of Vice-President and three members of the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly, the candidates admitted may be present at the meeting. 2. The Anti-Corruption, Conflict of Interest and Parliamentary Ethics Committee shall present a report from the hearing held. 3. The candidates shall be represented by the President of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property under their order as defined in the list of candidates for Vice-President and members of the Commission for Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. Discussions shall be held on the submitted applications under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly. 5. The vote shall be taken separately for each candidate on the order defined in the candidate list. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. 7. If the applicant does not receive the necessary votes, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u172	Thank you, Mr. Wolf. Dear Members of Parliament, I give the floor for speeches. I won't. I will put to the vote the decision to adopt procedural rules on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing candidates in the Anti-Corruption Commission, conflict of interest and parliamentary ethics and choosing a Vice-President and three members of the Anti-Corruption Commission and withdrawing illegally acquired property. They voted 102 MPs: 81, against 4, abstention 17. The decision to adopt procedural rules, together with the relevant Annexes thereto, is adopted. Once again, I will put to the vote a draft decision with the annexes which are an integral part of the rules of procedure. They were read by the rapporteur as an application in the text, but were not read entirely one after the other. Again, we are voting on the same draft decision with the relevant annexes. Voted 103 MPs: 80 against 8, abstention 15. The offer is accepted. Let's continue with: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR THE DELIVERATION OF THE COMMISSION FOR ENERGY AND WATER REGULATION UNDER § 41 OF THE TRANSITIONAL AND FINAL PROVISIONS OF THE COUNTERPARTY LAW AND COMPLIANCE OF THE ENERGY LAW (ARNE, BI, BI) 17 of 2015, DEA, B.C. 48 Since 2015), as well as for the presentation of Candidates to members of the COMMISSION for energy and water regulting, presupposition and public interference of DOCUMENTS and the hearing of CANdidates in the COMMISSION for Energetics, as well as the procedure for selecting from folk selection. Mr. Dobrev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u173	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the conduct of lots for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, as well as the proposal of candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. At its regular meeting held on 15 March 2018, the Energy Commission examined and discussed the Rules of Procedure for the conduct of the Commission's renewal lots for its energy water regulation. Under Paragraph 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory during the first term shall be renewed by lot and the President of the Commission shall not participate in it. After three years of its election, the Commission shall be renewed with four members. In accordance with art. 93, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly shall be made following a public procedure. The procedure shall be carried out on the basis of rules of procedure adopted by the National Assembly, which shall be drawn up by the committee responsible for each election, according to art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure adopted by the National Assembly shall be annexed to Annex No 1 "A declaration of written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the position of member of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, and Annex No 2 "A Declaration of written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Attitudes on the procedural rules took the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Tasco Ermenkov. National Representative Tasco Ermenkov proposed the following editorial amendments in Section I: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4.2 in sentence two, the words "empty' are replaced by "contents' and in sentence three, the words "empty' are replaced by "contains' the words "not terminated'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4.4 sentences second and third are amended as follows: "The boxes are opened and the guest pulls out of the first box one envelope, removes the paper in the envelope, shows it and reads it loudly and clearly written name. The same guest draws from the second box an envelope, removes the paper in the envelope, shows it and reads it loudly and clearly written text. National Representative Delyan Dobrev proposed the following editorial amendments: 1. In Section I, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4.5. after the word "over and over', the following is added from the selection of the new members and the second sentence is deleted. 2. In Section III, point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 digit 3. In Section IV, point (a) is replaced by the following: The third sentence shall be added in each decision and the name of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, whose term of office shall be terminated in accordance with the lots held under Section I. The proposed editorial amendments were submitted to separate votes and adopted unanimously by 18 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... After the discussion, the Energy Committee with 18 votes for the Energy Committee, without the opposition and the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to examine and adopt the following draft decision with the two declarations attached to it: Project! DECISION adopting the Rules of Procedure for the conduct of lots for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (promote, SG No. No. 17 of 2015, Dop., No. 48 from 2015), as well as the proposal of candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (prom., SG No. No. 17 of 2015, Dop., No. 48 from 2015) and art. 93, para. 7 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt Rules of Procedure for the conduct of lots for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, as well as for the offer of candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly. I. Conducting lots for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission 1. The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be updated by lot with: (a) two members with experience in the field of energy; (b) one member with internship in the field of water supply and sewerage; (c) one member from amongst the members with legal experience and experience in the field of economics. 2. The lot shall be held on 5 April 2018 at 14.00 pm in the Hall of the National Assembly at an open meeting of the Energy Commission, which shall be broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The lot consists of three separate withdrawals as follows: a) first withdrawal for renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with members with experience in the field of energy; Alexander Yordanov, Vladko Vladimirov, Georgi Zlatev and Evgenia Haritonova participate in the withdrawal; b) second withdrawal for renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with a member with internship in the field of water supply and sewerage; Valentin Petkov and Dimitar Kochkov participate in the withdrawal; c) third withdrawal for renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission with a member with legal internship or internship in the field of the economy; Remzi Osman and Svetla Todorova participate in the withdrawal. 4. Each draw is produced with two boxes. 4.1. In the first box, as many envelopes as the number of members participating in the relevant withdrawal shall be placed in each envelope, with a sheet bearing the name of the Member of the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory from the withdrawal. 4.2. In the second box, as many envelopes as the number of members participating in the relevant withdrawal shall be placed in each envelope. In the first draw, two of the sheets which are placed in the envelopes contain the inscription In the second and third withdrawals, one of the sheets which are placed in envelopes contains the inscription "The label is terminated" and one of the sheets contains the inscription "the label" is not terminated. 4.3. Opaque boxes are used to draw the lot. The envelopes are identical and opaque. Empty boxes, envelopes and leaflets shall be opened and displayed on all sides of the person present. Then the boxes are closed, the paper is placed in the envelopes, the envelopes are placed in the boxes and the boxes mixed; 4.4. Each withdrawal shall be carried out by a different guest at the meeting of the Energy Committee outside the members of the committee, the staff of the National Assembly and the members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission who have expressed a desire to do so. The boxes are opened and the guest draws from the first box an envelope, removes the paper in the envelope, shows it and reads it loudly and clearly written name. The same guest draws from the second box an envelope, removes the paper in the envelope, shows it and reads it loudly and clearly written text. The procedure shall be repeated until all the towing envelopes are opened. 4.5. Upon completion of the withdrawal, the Chair of the Energy Commission shall declare the names of the members of the Commission for energy and water regulation whose term of office shall be suspended from the election of the new members. 5. The Energy Committee shall draw up a report on the results of the lots carried out and make it available to the Members of the National Assembly. The report is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 6. From the meeting of the Energy Committee, a full stenographic protocol is drawn up, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. II. Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the submission of candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission 1. Proposals for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be made by Members of the National Assembly or by Parliamentary Groups in accordance with the lots held. The proposals shall be submitted in writing to the Energy Commission through the President of the National Assembly until 17 April 2018. 2. The proposals for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall be accompanied by written reasons which justify the good professional reputation of the applicant concerned. The following documents shall apply to the proposal: (a) the written consent of the applicant to be proposed for the post of model Annex 1 to the decision; (b) written consent of the applicant under art. 27, para. 2 of the Act for Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army according to the model "Annex No 2" to the Decision; (c) a detailed CV; (d) certified by the applicant a copy of a diploma for completed higher education with an educational-qualification degree of Master. (e) a criminal record; (f) documents certifying that the applicant proposed for: (aa) a member with experience in the field of energy shall meet the requirement of professional experience under art. 12, para. 1, t. Paragraph 2 (a) and (b) of this Article shall apply mutatis mutandis from the date of entry into force of this Agreement and from the date of entry into force of this Agreement. 59 of the Additional Provisions of the Energy Act; (bb) a member with internship in the field of water supply and sewerage shall comply with the requirement of professional internship under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 point (b) in relation to § 1, point (b) 59a of the Additional Provisions of the Energy Act; (c) a member or a member of a staff member or an economist shall meet the requirement for professional experience under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (c) of the Energy Act, respectively under art. 12, para. 1, t. 2 (b) of the Energy Act. III. Public disclosure of documents. 1. The submitted proposal, together with the documents attached to it, shall be published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly without delay, but not later than 5 days before the hearing. 2. The publication of the proposal and documents shall be carried out in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act. 3. Non-profit legal entities registered for public use and professional organisations may submit opinions to the Committee on Energy on the proposed candidates, including questions to be put to them no later than three days before the hearing of the candidates. 4. The mass media may send to the Commission on energy issues to the candidates to be assigned to them. 5. Anonymous opinions and alerts shall not be considered. 6. Opinions and questions shall be sent by post to the following address: gr. Sofia, Pl. "Knyaz Aleksandar I " No 1, Energy Commission, or by e-mail: komisia_energetika@parliament.bg. The opinions and questions are published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly, subject to the Personal Data Protection Act and the Classified Information Protection Act. IV. Perform a preliminary check under the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army Candidates shall be checked for belonging to the bodies referred to in art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. The request for prior verification under art. 27, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army are made by the Chairman of the Energy Commission. The results of the verification shall be published on the specialized thematic site on the website of the National Assembly. V. Hearing of candidates 1. Before hearing the proposed candidates, the Energy Commission shall verify the documents submitted and whether each of them meets the requirements for taking up the relevant position. 2. The hearing is held in an open meeting of the Energy Commission, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals in alphabetical order of the names of the candidates for members within 5 minutes of a candidate. The presentation also includes details of specific preparation, motivation, public reputation and public support for the applicant. 4. Candidates for members shall present their concept of the Commission's energy and water regulation activities as a regulatory authority.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 5. The Energy Committee shall hold debates on the proposals made. The Members of the National Assembly shall place their questions separately to the candidates for members in alphabetical order of the own names of the candidates. After the questions asked to the candidate concerned by all Members of the National Assembly are exhausted, the applicant shall be in charge of up to 10 minutes. 6. The President of the Energy Commission shall present in summary the opinions and questions of the persons referred to in Article 3. 93, para. 3 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, to which no reply has been received within two minutes each. 7. The applicant's reply to the submitted opinions and the questions raised within 5 minutes. 8. The Commission may request additional information from both the applicant and the relevant competent authority. 9. A full stenographic protocol is drawn up from the hearing, which is published on the specialized thematic website on the website of the National Assembly. 10. The Commission shall draw up within the meaning of art. 93, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly a report from the hearing of the candidates and submit it to the National Assembly. The report shall be accompanied by a draft decision to select each candidate for the relevant position in the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Each decision shall also declare the name of the Member of the Commission for energy and water regulation whose term of office shall be terminated in accordance with the lots held under Section I. 11. The refusal of a candidate to participate in the hearing shall not suspend the procedure with regard to the other candidates for the position concerned. VI. Election of members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission of the National Assembly 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates are present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The National Assembly shall hear the report of the Energy Committee. 3. Each candidate shall be represented by the applicant within two minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote is evident through the computerized voting system. If there are several candidates for one position, the vote shall be carried out in alphabetical order on the applicant's own names, unless the National Assembly decides otherwise. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates for one position have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who has received the highest number of votes for the House shall be elected. 7. Where none of the candidates for the position concerned receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall take place, in which the two candidates who received the most votes for the position concerned shall take part. 8. If none of the candidates for the respective position receive the necessary votes in the second vote, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Annex No 1 to the Decision The delegation of power The undersigned................................................................................................................................................................... DECLARES THAT: I agree to be proposed for the position......................................................................................................... (Description to be discharged) Declaration:......................... (signature of the declarant) Annex No 2 to the Decision The delegation of power The undersigned................................................................................................................................................................... DECLARES THAT: I agree to a preliminary check to be carried out to establish belonging to the bodies under art. 1 of the Law on Access and Disclosure of Documents and the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Declaration:....................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u174	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u175	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'm proposing an editorial amendment. In what I read, the decision on page 25 was published on the website of the European Commission. 1, I, t. 2: The draw is held on 5 April 2018 at 14:00 p.m. I propose to replace the draw on 4 April 2018 at 14.00 p.m. The reason is that 6 April is not working day, and it is good after the lot on 4 April, 5 April morning the President of the National Assembly to read a message about the draw. In this way we will get more publicity and all Bulgarian citizens will know about the results of the draw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-21.u176	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. What else? There's no counterproposal. I will put to the vote the proposal made by the Parliamentary Representative Mr. Dobrev for editorial amendments in: The implementation of lots for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, i.e. 2 The text is held on 5 April 2018 and is held on 4 April 2018 at 14:00 p.m. in Hall "West" of the National Assembly at an open meeting of the Energy Commission, which is broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly. Vote 96 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. I put to the vote the decision to adopt procedural rules for the conduct of lots for the renewal of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission pursuant to § 41 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (promise, SG No. 17 of 2015, dop. ...), as well as the proposal of candidates for members of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, presentation and public disclosure of documents and hearing of candidates in the Energy Commission, as well as the procedure for election by the National Assembly with the adopted editorial amendment in: I, p. 2 as well as Annex 1 and Annex 2 which were presented by the rapporteur. 99 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 2. The decision's been made. Members of Parliament, the next regular plenary session shall be on 22 March 2018. At 9:00 p.m., according to the adopted programme. We're adjourned.
