ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u1	154 MPs were registered. I'm opening the meeting. New questions: A question was received from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Dora Yankova to Nikolay Nenkov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, concerning a policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works on the implementation of the European Union Strategy for the Danube Region. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 4 May 2018. Written response from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Emil Hristov, Manoil Manev and Radostin Tanev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Nighyar Jafer; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Diana Savateva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Julian Papashimov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Dessislava Atanasova; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the MPs Ivan Mihovski, Pavel Hristov, Ivan Valkov and Valentin Milushev; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the MPs Asya Peeva, Evgeni Budinov, Nelly Petrova and Emilia Staneva-Milkova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Vladimir Valev, Emilia Staneva-Milkova, Nelly Petrova, Ruslan Toshev and Tanya Petrova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Konstantin Popov, Zapriyan Yankov, Mladen Shishkov and Hristo Grudev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to ask the MPs Alexander Ivanov, Vladislav Nikolov, Irena Dimova and Maria Ilieva; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Evgenia Angelova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the MPs Svetlana Naydenova and Julian Papashimov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Elena Aksieva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov of two questions from the MPs Ivelina Vasileva, Dimitar Petrov, Diana Savateva, Galya Vasileva, Asya Peeva and Ivan Valkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Plamen Manushev and Daniela Dimitrova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Krasimir Velchev and Alexander Alexandrov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Ivan Mihovski and Kalin Vassilev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Daniela Daritkova-Prodanova and Krasimir Subev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Nikolay Sirakov and Iglika Ivanova-Subeva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Konstantin Popov, Zapriyan Yankov, Mladen Shishkov and Hristo Grudev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Dilyan Dimitrov and Irena Dimova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Daniela Saveklieva, Alexander Matsurev, Georgi Dinev and Stefan Apostolov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Plamen Petrov, Vladislav Nikolov and Ralitsa Dobreva; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Petya Avramova and Krasen Krastev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Kiril Kalfin and Radoslava Chekanska; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Plamen Petrov, Vladislav Nikolov and Ralitsa Dobreva; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the MPs Spas Panchev and Dimitar Georgiev; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Dimitar Stoyanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Boshkov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Petar Vitanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova on a question from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov. Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u2	Honourable colleagues! As I have received an answer from the Ministry of Economy to a very specific question, but there is nothing in it related to the content of the question, I would like to address you and call you. I do not wish to concern honourable Members with the question itself, but I would like to address you with a request to contact the Ministry of Economy and ask them to be so kind as to respond specifically, because in the end this is the supreme authority in a parliamentary republic and should demonstrate a more serious attitude when answering questions from MPs. I would therefore officially like to return the question. Here you go. [[The National Representative Petar Vitanov returns the answer to the question to the President.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. A conversation will be held with the Ministry of Economy. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. First today Mr. Boyl Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev about the house of Rayna Popgeorgieva Futhekova Here you are, you have the floor, dear Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u4	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, all of us, as descendants of patriotic Bulgarians who have won the freedom, are obliged to keep the tradition, spirit and memory of the feats. To ask you my question, I was provoked by the anniversary of the April Uprising, the International Day for Protection of Cultural Monuments on 18 April and 29 July 1917 and as a member of the Committee on Culture and Media I am seriously concerned about the fate of the house of Raina Popgeorgieva Futekova or Raina Knyagina in Sofia. I wish, as naive as it may sound, it would be a symbol of the memory of the heroism of the Bulgarian woman, as is the house museum of the woman, the creator of the flag of the April Uprising in the city. Panagyurishte. The museum house in Panagyurishte is still one of the emblems of the city, the history of the uprising and the patriotism of our people. Unlike her, however, the house of Raina Princess, in which she spent the last eight years of her life in Sofia, is in a miserable state. It was built with a donation to the pilgrims in 1909, but today it can only be proud that the merciful line of Raina Princess' life continues to be home to the hobos. The house is on three floors, with broken windows, wooden windows, and in the yard there are remains of improvised bedrooms of homeless people. Of course, here we can also apply photo material from the condition, which was literally two days ago. [[Shows picture material.]] You can see it very well. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u5	Dear Members of Parliament, I ask for silence in this Chamber and more respect for the questioner.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u6	The only memory of Raina Princess there is the commemoration plate at the entrance, which says that she is the last home of the patriotic Bulgarian. Mr. Minister, Raina Knyaginya rests in poverty in this very house, located on Street. "Sofronius Vrachanski" No 119, Serdika district, Sofia. I don't want to think that anything in our minds as guardians of cultural heritage has changed since then. Please clarify. We've moved forward in time, not to get into the details, maybe in the supplementary question... Give us information about the house and what you have in mind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u7	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Chenchev! In answer to your question, I will inform you of the following. By order of the Minister of Culture from 5 October 2016 to the site of the House of Raina Knyaginya in Sofia, the status of historical unit of real estate is granted, category of local importance. For the real cultural value are defined regimes of conservation with borders and prescriptions. By letter of 25 April 2018, the Ministry of Culture agreed a visa for the investment design of a conservation, restoration and exposition of a real estate property with a category of local importance. "Sofronius Vrachanski" No 119 "Sofia City." Importer of the project documentation is Mr. Todor Krastev, Mayor of Serdika District. The visa complies with the provisions for the preservation of the historical single real estate cultural value. The next phase of design, investment project under Part Architecture and Structures is necessary and will be reviewed again at the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage and the Ministry of Culture in accordance with art. Art. 83 84 of the Cultural Heritage Act. In order to assist the Ministry of Culture for the conservation of real estate cultural value, owners of the property or persons with transferred management rights may apply for the allocation of funds under the Programme "Conservation of real estate cultural heritage" under conditions and in accordance with the rules for the selection of sites and the definition of activities for the provision of targeted financial support in the field of conservation and restoration of real cultural values. The application procedures are available on the Ministry's website. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u9	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chenchev, do you have a line? No, there won't be. This is the only question for Minister Banov. Thank you for your participation. Goodbye! We move on to a question to Mrs. Angelkova, Minister of Tourism, who will answer to the MPs Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova and Ruslan Toshev about unguarded sea beaches. Here you are, Mrs. Milkova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u10	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Regarding the upcoming summer season and its recent official opening, as well as the preparation for the season itself, in response to a question addressed to you about the upcoming summer season and to what extent this preliminary preparation has reached, you have stated that by 31 March an order will be issued with a list of unguarded sea beaches to meet, of course, the expectations and requirements of both Bulgarian and all foreign tourists who have chosen our country of destination Bulgaria for their summer vacation. It is necessary to provide a number of services on sea beaches, i.e. to manage them as by law. The health and safety of summerers are also directly dependent on the provision of water saving and medical care. In this regard, Madam Minister, I address you with the following question: what measures has the Ministry of Tourism taken to reduce the number of unguarded sea beaches and have results been achieved to ensure security and good conditions for the normal course of the summer season 2018? Has the control activity carried out during the last summer season 2017 provided greater revenue in the state budget? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. Madam Minister, you have the floor for an answer. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u12	Thank you, dear Lord President. Dear ladies and gentlemen, Mrs. Milkova, Mr. Toshev! With regard to the management of sea beaches, we make maximum efforts to minimize the number of unguarded beaches in order to optimal and sustainable recovery of the country's tourist potential, as well as to reduce the possible spending of public resources to secure beaches that remain unguarded. We have been building this consistent policy since the first day of this management mandate. I would like to stress that, despite the short deadlines we had, at the time of entering office of Borisov 3 in May 2017, as a result of the extremely active work and marginal mobilization, we were able to reduce the welded number of unguarded beaches from 106 to 89. The measures taken to improve the quality of the summer tourism product are directly linked to a reduction in the number of unguarded beaches. The guaranteeing of a maximum number of water-saving stripes, sanitary and medical care are the main focus of the policy led by the Ministry of Tourism. These steps also reflect favorably on the amount of revenues in the state budget, with the total revenues from concessions and rents last year amounting to more than 17 million. BGN, which represents an increase of 22% compared to the previous year. A key point is the strengthened and continuous control that we exercise with regard to the management of sea beaches. For information, I inform you that 428 checks were carried out last summer, both planned and in relation to each specific signal we receive. We foresee these control activities to be carried out at an even stronger pace during the current summer tourist season. Regarding their results in a digital dimension, I inform you that penalties have been imposed in connection with contractual relations, as well as penal decrees amounting to nearly 300 thousand. BGN, the nature of the main violations found are lack of sufficient number of lifeguards, size of the area for free beaching and use of additional commercial area. It is vital for us to exercise timely and strict control to prevent these violations, and in this regard I remind you that our best partner in this regard are the users of the tourist service, who will be able to signal us during this season on the specialized phone that has been operating in the Ministry since the summer of 2016. In connection with the execution of art. 7, para. 7 of the Black Sea Coast Construction Act declaring a list of sea beaches not granted on concession or rental by the end of March, I have issued an order announcing the names of 86 sea beaches which, at the date of its issue, do not have existing concessions and rent contracts. In this context again we have a decrease in the number of unguarded beaches. Regarding sea beaches to which no interest has been shown for renting or concession, but nevertheless remain highly preferred for beaching, the regional managers of the Black Sea districts have sent schemes to provide water saving activities. The same is true for the beaches for natural tourism "White, Karadere, Irakli and Coral. In other words, they will also be secured in accordance with the current regulations, like any summer tourist season. In order to ensure the safety, life and health of visitors, the aim of the Ministry of Tourism is to ensure that the number of unguarded beaches becomes lower by renting them or concession, thus ensuring not only the public interest, but also a reduction in the spending of the public financial resources needed to secure the visited beaches without owners with the required water saving activities. The efforts of the Ministry of Tourism are aimed at ensuring the smooth running of summer season 2018, as well as the preparation of summer season 2019. More than 20 high-visit beaches expire in 2019 and the procedures for their concessionation need to start immediately this year, therefore preparatory action is underway at the moment. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u13	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? I can't see. Dear MPs, I waited for the entry into the hall of Minister Valchev to present the guests in his presence a group of students from Valchi Dol municipality. Let's say hello. [[Applause.]] Madam Minister, that was the only question for you. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions to Minister Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, who will answer, firstly, a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova-Piralkova and Stoyan Mirchev regarding the pay of the labor of the employed in science. Here you are, Professor Piralkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Our question with colleague Mirchev to you is related to the pay of labor in science. This is not a new topic for you, all the more so, that especially in the last three or four years the problems of paying the work in science are also about supporting the leading scientific directions and institutions - the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy - is becoming a serious issue that is quite neglectful. November 1st instead of becoming a Day of Spirituality, usually the last three years have become a day that we have protests and these protests are really about attitude, firstly, towards Bulgarian science and higher budgets related to the realization of scientific potential. These are not questions that are raised only by Bulgarian scientists. In the updated research development strategy, which was adopted 2017, the findings made there are categorical that there is no consistent national science policy in recent decades and this leads to the emigration of young and established scientists abroad, the closure of a number of scientific directions in which Bulgaria has been leading in its development. It is particularly worrying that the scientific potential for research is also reduced, which has a negative impact on a number of other key sectors of the country, including innovation, which Bulgaria is willing to realise its potential through an economy in which innovation can be leading. We are provoked to ask you a question about pay in science based on your speeches a few weeks ago, perhaps a month ago, since we asked the question when you committed to reaching an average salary in education 1500 BGN. for teachers, which, of course, is commendable. Against the background of these average salaries, which will respectively be realized in education, again I say, this is good for the development of education, what happens at all to the Bulgarian scientists and the pay of the work in science? Our specific questions to you are related to: what is the average salary of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy and do you believe that current levels of pay of labor motivate employment in science, and what is the vision of the Ministry of Education and Science to pay for the work in science? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u15	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Here you are, Minister, for your answer you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u16	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Bachvarova! You MPs of this National Assembly have adopted a Research Development Strategy with the support of all political forces almost unanimously, which places a clear emphasis on human resources in the system of preserving, preserving and developing scientific potential and also sets clear parameters for increasing funding for research. This increase has a clear emphasis and commitment to results. Why? Because we, as a society, have to justify the public resources that we spend and each lev has its alternative value, it can be put into multiple state functions, before that it has to be seized by taxpayers, and that is why we should not just increase the funds for research, but we also have to prove their public return. The first step was taken this year with the budget. We have an additionally purely over 65 million increase in research funds, which, imposed on the base, is a significant percentage of increase in funds. Specifically regarding the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The Budget Act increased the budget subsidy by 6% and additional 15 million were granted, so the overall increase of the subsidy of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences was 25%. At the moment, what we have as an average gross salary of employees at the Academy is BGN 1100. We have no data on the Agricultural Academy, which is a secondary authorising officer to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry. What are we supposed to do from now on? You must implement this strategy. You did the comparison with the teachers. The teachers and I have a clear public task for teachers and educational institutions. This public task is for them to train children and students, respectively, in kindergartens and schools. The number of staff in schools is a function of the number of children, respectively the classes and the standards for teaching work, while in autonomous scientific organizations we do not have this specified public task. Yes, we must maintain scientific potential, but it is not enough in itself to justify public returns. We must direct the funds for science and important public tasks, of course, realizing that there is also fundamental science and so on. This is a conversation that is also being held at European level, as we have a common challenge both within the European Union and separately Member States to direct the funds for research towards these important public tasks. Within the European Union, we are talking about a mission-oriented approach so that research can help address these societal challenges. We are planning to propose perhaps ten national scientific programmes that will be in line with the principle of connection with the tasks that individual sectors have and the principle of concentration and partnership. You know that our scientific system, apart from being relatively small, can also talk about fragmentation. We are trying to overcome this fragmentation by laying down conditions for the partnership of scientific organisations. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] All of this should give us back the trust that we can effectively direct the resources for research to the important tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u17	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova. You have the floor for attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Mr. Minister, I did not hear specific numbers related to the pay of labor and the differentiation, which is obtained even in relation to the average wage for the country and the pay of the labor in the field of science. Several times, and during the discussion of the budget, results are said. Appreciate these results! Both BAS and the Agricultural Academy have sufficient indicators in their scientific reports, in which you can make an accurate assessment of what they have achieved and whether this corresponds to the pay. For example, the Agricultural Academy of 80% of the varieties are owned by the state and the Academy. Another point is that it does not pay for them afterwards when they are realized in production. It's the same at the BAS. Look at the patents, the useful models that are protected in these two structures, and you will judge whether the taxpayer's money goes to waste, as it is explained each time that we hardly have a support in science that does not carry this return that we expect, although the scientific process is long. In order to achieve some scientific result, you need accumulated seven, eight, ten or more years to have the result and effectiveness of these researches. Sixty-five million, you say, has more in the budget. I don't see them. If you tell us where the 65 million is and how it will be distributed, it will really be some news that we can comment on. Finally, again in the same 2017 Strategy, which we unanimously adopted, the reason was to launch the programme, it is written that there should be a legal act regulating the minimum salaries of scientists in the relevant PhD students, post-doctoral students, budgetary scientific organisations and higher schools. We have tried several times to offer such minimally equal rates of pay, however, in parliament is not accepted. You have the task of preparing such a legal act. Will there be such a legal act, on what basis, when will you develop it and propose that the budget, for example, in 2019, is in line with precisely these new requirements that the Strategy says? Because the number of scientists involved in research at the BAS and the Agricultural Academy is decreasing, young people are not going, and this is a long-term problem. I personally worry that at some point we will only implement innovations from other countries, but Bulgaria will not be able to cope with the challenges in the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u19	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Before the doppelganger, there's a request for procedure. [[Reply from the National Representative Anton Kutev.]] It has nothing to do with the current dialogue. Yes, thank you for that. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u20	Dear Mrs. Bachvarova, we have the same concerns. We could say we're talking the same thing. The difference is that you are starting from wages, and I would like to focus more on what we expect from scientific organisations. That's why we're trying to refocus the conversation. There's a few things I've been trying to answer and how these 65 million will be distributed. One of them is the national science programs I told you about. Their total value will be over 25 million. The second, we have currently drawn up a Draft Decree for amendment and supplement of Decree No 90 on scholarships of students and PhD students. These funds will provide additional funds for scholarships to PhD students, but again linked to the results, i.e. where we actually have the intensity of scientific production and PhD students involved in this scientific work. Part of the funds will go to increase the budget of the Fund for Research and Research, part of the funds will go to pay and subscription access to international databases and some of the funds have already been allocated to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences to increase the subsidy, which will also be distributed according to the results. A first evaluation was made last year under the Rules of Evaluation and Monitoring of Scientific Activity. What we have found is necessary change, improvement. It's not reliable enough to evaluate the first version of her that we've done. We've prepared amendments to the Rules of Procedure. Soon they will be established after the period of public consultation is over, that is, we have a series of actions aimed at this. Yes, wages are important, but we have to justify them even more when we don't have this specified award as in science. In science, indeed, the result is the longest and most invisible, the most difficult to appreciate, and therefore it is key to bind some of the research resources to the public tasks and challenges that we have. We will try to integrate science back with these public tasks, because it is a fact that these were actually your words that in recent decades we have a broken relationship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u21	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Come in now for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u22	Dear Mr. President, I apologize that it is you that I will make the procedure, because you are not the person to hear it. My procedure in the manner of conduct relates to a bill which was tabled on 21 September 2017 by me, respectively by the Patriots on 20 September. I deliberately left them one day before I was introduced the Bill for Citizens with Housing Savings Deposits or the so-called Bill for Liqueurs. It was introduced in September, like I said. His first viewing at first reading was an extraordinary procedure by the Patriots in January. I think it was January 17th. From 17 January until now, this bill has not been dealt with in committees, respectively for second reading. I would like to say that this is done very deliberately by the majority of the people of Menda Stoyanova as chairman of the leading committee and the group of GERB in order not to solve the problem of the people. You quite falsely, gentlemen of GERB, voted in the Chamber of Commerce and you have done everything possible not to enter this bill at either first reading or second reading, stressing that this is something you do for the second time, because the fate of this bill in the past National Assembly is exactly the same. The same bill in the past The National Assembly passes at first reading by majority and then you do not insert it until the National Assembly expires to make it impossible to watch and should be re-entryed accordingly. Mr. Chairman, I ask you to implement all the rights of the President of the National Assembly and force Mrs. Menda Stoyanova not to lie to her constituents and to put the bill in front of the Financial Commission, which is the leading committee, so that she can then enter the Chamber. I warn colleagues from GERB that in advance, knowing what will happen, we made a rather big petition. There are over 2,000 signatures in it. I call on citizens who have housing-saving deposits to quickly organise themselves and to go out to protest before the National Assembly, because otherwise GERB will lie to them, and I will do my best to make sure that all citizens who have signed in the register receive a personal invitation from me for such a protest, so that we can thus force Party GERB to fulfil the commitments it has made at first reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Your opinion has entered the transcript. I hope this is a sufficient sign of the position and requires a reaction. In today's session, it can't be taken. We continue with the questions to Minister Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. Question from the MPs Georgi Turnovalyski, Dimitar Georgiev and Teodora Halacheva. It refers to the means of repairing Plovdiv schools, whose buildings are monuments of cultural heritage. Who's going to develop the question? Here you are, Mr. Georgiev, you have the opportunity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, we have a question for you concerning several schools that are monuments of culture. You know that Plovdiv is the oldest city in Europe and has about 800 cultural heritages, some of them are five schools. One of these five schools is the Yellow School, which was established in 1868, and today part of the building complex of the Academy of Music, Dance and Fine Arts; the National School of Commerce, whose building was established at the initiative of the Plovdiv Chamber of Commerce and Industry; Geo Milev Primary School, which was founded in 1900; the Primary School of Aleko Konstantinov, which was established in 1907, which is known as the First Men's High School, and the Profiled Humanitarian High School of St. St. Cyril and Methodius, whose building was designed by the Italian architect Pietro Montani and in which for the first time in 1851, was celebrated the celebration of Slavic first-teachers Cyril and Methodius. The budget of the municipality of Plovdiv is not able to finance the renovation of these schools, all the more so that the schools themselves fall under the heritage of cultural monuments. Our question to you is: has the Ministry of Education allocated any funds for the renovation of these schools?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u25	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, of the schools listed only the National School of Commerce in Plovdiv is a public school funded by the Ministry of Education. As a specific beneficiary under the priority axis 3 "Regional Education Infrastructure" from the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" the Ministry has included the high school in the implementation of a project for repair of 11 professional high schools in the districts of Plovdiv, Smolyan and Kardzhali. The grant contract is worth less than BGN 14 million. To date, procedures are being carried out for the selection of contractor for engineering and construction supervision. In the implementation of the construction and installation works in the high school on the project are provided 940 thousand. BGN, which will perform a complete renovation of the educational infrastructure in the school. The main activities that are carried out include complete facade restoration, main roof repair, thermal insulation, complete replacement of water and electricity station, complete internal renovation of the buildings of the high school and repair of the sports site. The project is intended to deliver equipment and furniture to classrooms worth more than 97 thousand. lv. The Ministry of Education and Science supports initiatives to improve student learning conditions and seeks the opportunity to provide funds for such initiatives. In this connection in the town of Plovdiv are planned repair activities in a total of six professional Gymnasiums under Operational Programme. In the system of pre-school and school education there are nearly 4,700 institutions and nearly 4,500 buildings of these educational institutions. A small part of them are state educational institutions. The Ministry of Education and Science has nearly 400 secondary officers, without higher schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, of which just over 300 are schools and centers for special educational support. The needs of all these educational institutions cannot be met. You know, education infrastructure involves multiple, multiple elements. The fact is, however, that for the first time we have so much money under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" and to it we add the Rural Development Programme. Nearly 500 educational institutions will be affected under these two programmes and, apart from that, an improvement of educational infrastructure by state budget and municipal budgets is being financed. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The fact is that at the moment municipal budgets have a much greater opportunity in terms of capital expenditure than that of the Ministry of Education and the main part of the efforts are made by the municipalities, and the municipalities are the beneficiaries of Axis 1 of the Operational Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u27	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev. Meanwhile, esteemed MPs, perhaps by chance, and perhaps not, in the presence of the Minister of Education guests of the National Assembly are another group of students - representatives of the Municipal and Student Council - Lovech, and volunteers to the Association. Let's welcome them! [[Applause.]] Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u28	Mr. Minister, you mentioned that the only public school is the National School of Commerce, but our particular emphasis on this issue is that these schools are monuments of culture and they are in a special regime, you know, harder to repair and improve working conditions. The Humanitarian High School. St. Cyril and Methodius are studying over 2,000 students, but I would like to tell you that in this school some of the greatest Bulgarians have studied "Vasil Levski," Ivan Vazov, Peyo Yavorov, Todor Kableshkov and other famous Bulgarian revolutionaries and Buddhists. You said there was a 2014 Project for the National School of Commerce. We know about this project. This project has been delayed quite a bit, but let us pay attention if you need to, together with the Minister of Culture of these schools, because, you all know, Plovdiv in 2019 will be European Capital of Culture and these schools are in quite poor shape. If you wish and your colleague Mr. Banov can help improve the conditions of the students and preserve our cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u29	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Here you are, Mr. Minister, to supplement your response.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u30	Thank you. I accept your offer. When we have funds, we need to prioritize them, choose these educational institutions to invest funds in first. For others, in which we have higher utility of the funds invested, this was also done for the purposes of the Operational Program "Regions in Growth", the educational institutions, the vocational schools in this case were prioritized by criteria, such as the number of students, because the higher the number of students, the greater the use of a unit investment under equal conditions; whether they train in priority professional directions; whether they are recognized as national ones of national or regional importance, i.e. whether students from other districts and municipalities are trained. I admit, there is no criterion for objects of historical and cultural importance. Such a criterion would be useful from this point of view that these buildings also have additional importance in terms of the preservation of cultural and historical heritage and the formation of architectural image of cities. So I take that as a remark. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u31	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to the Minister of Education and Science is from the MPs Stanislava Stoyanova, Daniela Maleshkova, Venka Stoyanova, Asya Peeva and Galya Zaharieva. It refers to the results of the joint work mechanism for institutions to cover and detain children in educational institutions. You are welcome to develop this issue on behalf of a group of MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u32	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! One of the main priorities of the government is education, one of the objectives being the implementation of decisive measures to fully cover all educationable children and to prevent dropping out of the education system. With the management programme, the government said the state with all its institutions, policies and employees has to deal with this task. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what are the results of the mechanism for joint work of institutions to cover and detain children in compulsory pre-school and school age and what is the number of returned students in the system?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u33	Thank you. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u34	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Maleškova! Yes, it is. One of the main priorities not only of the Ministry, but also of the government, this should be one of the main priorities of the policy in the sector to embrace every child in compulsory preschool and school age and to effectively involve him in educational institutions. The work on the... if we have to give a general assessment is that it has produced good results, it has shown that the joint work of the institutions has very high added value. There are activities that individual institutions cannot handle on their own in the best way. According to the Preschool and School Education Act, the commitments to cover children in compulsory pre-school and school age are primarily of municipalities, but, on the other hand, we rely most on educational institutions to deal with this challenge, but they cannot do it themselves. A coordinated interaction of all institutions is needed. This was also at the heart of the mechanism. I thank fellow ministers of the interior, of labour and social policy, who were firm enough to give the signal to the structures that this is one of the important tasks they need to undertake. Perhaps to the greatest extent we should thank outside the system of municipalities not only the municipal mayors, but very often also the mayors of settlements, mayors and district mayors, local committees to combat anti-social events. All this was a committed resource of nearly 11,000. Souls. Now let's say that each one of them has been involved effectively at any given time, we will probably not be exact, but the fact is that there has been commitment by many institutions, many employees, which we may not have seen in relation to other activities. One hundred and thirty-four teams were on the move. What was initially taken out as a lack of cross-section between the children who are in the information system of the GRA and the children who are in the information system of education are missing 206 thousand. Children. The mechanism made 214 thousand. Address visits. Not all these children are visited because most of them are known to be abroad. This in the small settlement is known to both the neighbors and the mayor. Twenty-two thousand sixty-eight are the children students covered by the Mechanism so far, of which 17 297 have been enrolled in school and kindergarten as a result of the September campaign on scopes, 4618 The teams are currently carrying out the third stage of running. The regional management heads shall draw up weekly schedules for the addresses coordinated with the other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u35	Here you are, Mrs. Maleshkova, to supplement the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u36	Thank you, Mr. Minister, for your comprehensive response. Thank you for the active work of the Ministry of Education, and also the work of the other institutions in this direction, because this is indeed one of the main priorities in the management program of the Political Party GERB. I hope that this active work will continue in the future. Thank you again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u37	Thank you. Mr. Minister, will you take an attitude to take the opportunity for two minutes to develop your response?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u38	Yes, thank you. You said you hoped it would continue in the future. We have published for public discussion a draft order of action of the Mechanism, with which we hope to make it sustainable. We have tabled changes in the mechanism itself, we are binding the responsibility of each educational institution with an area of scope. We hope that all of this, together with the additional measures that are in the social assistance system, the additional administrative measures, the information assurance that we have created through the information system under the.................................the governor knows how many children should be subject to acts of administrative misconduct under the Pre-school and School Education Act, to control the mayors, all these measures jointly will have an effect. For this year, the Council of Ministers voted on the National Program together for each child, which will be awarded 450 thousand. lv. for the academic year 2018 - 2019 The portal with good practices is available for support of the teams. Within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency, we have raised the issue of a common European pilot initiative to monitor the training of people migrating with their parents to other European countries. The fact is that in modern conditions, when we have mobility opportunities, this mobility prevents us as if to follow the exercise of the right to education by children, and this is one of our challenges together with the Ministry of Interior and the Border Police to find the effective mechanisms within the free movement within the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u39	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're done with that. We move on to the next and it is back from the MPs Tanya Todorova Petrova, Vasil Tsvetkov, Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova, Radostin Radoslavov Tanev and Asya Atanasova Peeva regarding changes in the system of delegated budgets and expected results. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u40	Mr. Minister, Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The question we have for you with our colleagues Tanya Petrova, Vasil Tsvetkov, Milena Damyanova and Asya Peeva is about changes in the system of delegated budgets and expected results. The government is committed to increasing investment in education and guarantees an annual growth in the education budget. Since 2018, the system of delegated budgets has changed, and funding will not depend only on the number of children and students. My question is: what are the changes taken in the delegated budget system, and what will they result in? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u41	Thank you, Mr. Tanev. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tanev, funding and allocation of funds is an instrument for achieving the goals we have. First of all, the distribution of funds in the system must provide equal opportunities for educational institutions and kindergartens to carry out the learning process depending on their size, depending on their location, respectively the costs they have to ensure. Secondly, this distribution system must provide incentives for schools to achieve better results, to make more efforts, and, thirdly, to provide certain specific activities. This is the concept laid down in the Preschool and School Education Act. What has been found in the previous years is that this allocation mechanism needs its improvement. This was claimed as a task of improving the mechanism in the priorities of government management and was implemented with changes in the Pre-school and School Education Act through the State Budget Act for 2018. In this sense, we have fulfilled the commitment with regard to a change in the funding model, but it is not fully implemented. The funds in schools are already distributed not only on the basis of the number of children and students, but on the basis of the number of groups and classes and number of institutions. Thus, under equal conditions, higher funding is provided for small schools and kindergartens, as there are also those that do not depend on size in the function of their costs. In addition, regional differentiation in the distribution mechanism was introduced. Small and remote municipalities from the district center and from the largest settlements receive additional funding. This is because under equal conditions it is difficult for them and will become more difficult to attract young people to work in these educational institutions. Young people generally prefer to live and work in large cities, and we must make this equal access to good teachers in all educational institutions. Additional funds will be obtained at schools and kindergartens working with children and students from vulnerable groups, as there, again under equal conditions, must be made much more effort to carry out numerous additional activities, including general and additional support for these children. The rules for the allocation of these funds are already laid down in the Regulation on the financing of the institutions. What we are about to do in the coming years is to upgrade this system with an evaluation based on the results by developing such an assessment, and it must also cover the assessment of the inspection over the long term, but in order for it to be introduced, this assessment must be assessed as sufficiently reliable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u43	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Petrova, do you have a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u44	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! On behalf of the Members of the National Assembly who asked this question, thank you for your reply. I would like to share with you that school directors, especially from small towns, share their satisfaction with a fair distribution of funds and also share that this is the first government that has thought of these schools. These schools work peacefully, children in small towns, in small schools I really assure you that they have largely equal access to education and education services, along with students from large schools in large cities. I express my satisfaction as a long-standing director because of the funding of vocational education in Bulgaria. In addition, more funds are allocated to professions which are rare or which have not yet been seriously developed in our education system. So I allow myself, on behalf of a large medium-educated community, to thank your ministry and I am convinced that this educational policy will continue from now on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u45	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Mr. Secretary, you won't have the back. The next question is from the MPs Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova and Irena Todorova Anastasova regarding the organization and control of the activity of acquiring professional-qualification degree of pedagogical specialists. Here you are, Mrs. Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u46	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Valchev, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament! We know that the new Preschool and School Education Act is already in force, and so the reform of education that has been waiting for must be made, and a key point in order for this reform to take place are the teachers, for which we are all unanimous. The qualification of teachers is also an extremely important moment for their preparation so that education in our country can be raised to a higher level. Regulation No 12 of 1 September 2016 categorically determines how this is to be done, namely the conditions and procedures for improving the qualification of pedagogical specialists, professional qualifications, the terms and conditions of their acquisition, as well as the system of qualification credits. What have we observed in recent months, and what signals have reached us? Very serious problems in the quality of training by different training institutions. The organization of trainings, curricula, the competence of lecturers, the conduct of exams and the receipt of relevant certificates. Particularly heavy are the signals we receive from the Department for qualification and improvement of teachers at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. It is not a secret opinion of many of the teachers about the quality of the trainings and the ways of issuing the certificates. I can only give one or two examples. According to Ordinance No 12, the session should be between 15 September and 15 November. The fifth and fourth grade exams shall be held continuously throughout the year. Groups of teachers gather in regions where there is nothing wrong with them, but what happens there? Two hundred to three hundred or one hundred teachers in the smaller regions are gathered to conduct this. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll say the question, I'm done: 90 BGN, first, once by hand, then another 70 BGN. The official data and figures to be collected by hand are other than those which are officially announced. And finally, this year, it's 200 leva. More than 20,000 have been trained in 2017. teachers, so far for 2018 Over 7,000. teachers. Therefore, I ask you to answer the following question: is the Ministry of Education and Science familiar with the Ministry of Education and Science and what control the Ministry of Education exercises not only on the Institute for Advancement in Sofia University? Kliment Ohridski and for the other institutions to acquire professional-qualification degrees from pedagogical specialists? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Klisarova. I'll make an announcement. Dear colleagues, an exhibition will be opened in the Northern lobby on the occasion of 69 years since the day the concentration camp in Belene was established. The exhibition presents testimony to former concentration campers, memories of prisoners and repressed by communist power. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Thank you. Here you are, Minister, for the answer to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u48	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Klisarova! Under the provisions of the Preschool and School Education Act, improving the qualification of pedagogical specialists is carried out by specialized service units, by higher schools, scientific and training organizations. Training programmes are entered in the register of approved programmes to improve the qualification of pedagogical specialists. The control activities of the implementation of these programmes shall be carried out through checks by a committee designated by my order. The composition of authorised persons shall be consistent with their functional competence and with the specifics of the programmes approved and entered in the information register. The Department for Information and Improvement of Teachers at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski is implementing an ongoing education and realization of the link between the national training of teachers and their permanent additional qualification and professional development. The academic autonomy of higher schools gives them the right to conduct trainings to improve the qualification, which is carried out according to the educational documentation, the requirements to which are laid down in the regulations of the higher school. The Rules of Procedure and the Activity of the Sofia University "St. Kliment Ohridsky also regulates control forms. The control board shall carry out checks independently and jointly with the other authorities, and checks shall be carried out on the basis of referral or on its own. According to the provision of art. 10, para. 2, p. 7 of the Law on Higher Education, the Minister of Education and Science has the power to exercise control over higher schools in compliance with this law. Checks are usually appointed upon receipt of an alert for violations of the provisions of the Law. During the examination of the S &amp; D sc. Kliment Ohridski. The university found numerous violations in the work of the Department for Information and Improvement of Teachers, which is why he will be called disciplinary responsibility. The Rector of Sofia University has reported to the Sofia District Prosecutor for criminal liability within the meaning of art. 308 of the Penal Code for Documentary Crimes. We also received the signal on 16 April 2018, i.e. 11 days ago, it was forwarded to us by the State Financial Inspection Agency. We have ordered a check, but since the specifics of the signal and the fact that it is conducted by a department that is at Sofia University suggests that we should carry out checks under several laws... both under the Pre-school and School Education Act for the specific qualification activity and under the Higher Education Act, since it is a higher education unit, as well as under the Internal Audit Act through our Internal Audit Unit, as it is required to check non-small financial documentation. Here is our main restriction, because I just told your colleague that we have more than 400 units with us, and with the higher schools and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (BAS) about 435, so that our internal audit unit cannot carry out checks and carry out enough intensive control over all of them, but we have planned this inspection. It's ordered, I guess it'll start next week. I share your concerns with regard to the specific signal we will check it, but it is more important how we carry out effective quality control activities in this diversity and many approved programmes. This committee, which I have set up, cannot exercise control during the conduct of all training activities. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In the long term, I am sure that not only control but also competition is the one that will sift and evaluate the individual training programs for qualification of pedagogical specialists. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u49	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Klisarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, Ministers! Mr. Valchev, I listened carefully to the answer and I was very pleased that you took concrete action, especially at the Department of Sofia University. Professor Klisarova and I decided to ask this question because the signals we receive are not only from the Department of Sofia University, but our meetings with teachers in the country in many places talk about reduced quality of these trainings, which are conducted by various NGOs, so-called training firms and so on. Of course, there are problems everywhere. But in teachers, this attitude prevails. You know that they have an interest in acquiring a fifth and fourth professional-qualification degree, especially with the requirements for occupying the position of senior teachers and so on under Regulation No 12, but they still tell us that they would like to and, besides that it is good for them to acquire this qualification, that it is training that will really benefit them and not so. We ask Professor Klisarova about control by the Ministry. If necessary, let the Ministry also consider changes in the regulations which allow for precisely such control, especially according to the requirements of Ordinance No 12 on the subsequent qualification. We ask this question because this is ultimately a damage to the budget of the state because there are some professional-qualification degrees, e.g. fifth and fourth, which are respectively 20 and 25 BGN. to people's salaries, without real quality and without real training then using the college in their teaching work. So we thank you for taking action and therefore we hope that you will inform us of the results of the inspection of the Department in Sofia.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. We won't have the back. That concludes the questions to you, Minister. We are moving on to questions to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. The first question is from the MPs Georgi Yordanov Yordanov and Ilian Angelov Timchev regarding problems with medicine supply in the country. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u52	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! It is known that medicine supply in the country is entirely in the field of private enterprise. For a long time we have received complaints, signals from the country about the lack of pharmacies in smaller settlements, where disclosure of a pharmacy, of course, is not economically profitable under the current conditions. We are receiving complaints about an insufficient number of 24-hour pharmacies, including in district cities and even the lack of 24-hour pharmacies in several district cities, which is paradoxical. Over the years, several teams leading the Ministry of Health have come up with a proposal to regulate this proposal. Unfortunately, nothing happened. My question to you, Mr. Ananiev, is: what is your opinion on this case? Do you and your team intend to take measures to regulate this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u53	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u54	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev! On the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria there are currently 3996 pharmacies operating year-round. In 16 small municipalities in the country with a total population of 50 thousand there are no pharmacies. Sharp is the problem with day-to-day pharmacies. Only 0.8% of pharmacies have 24-hour operation. There are no such in major regions as Vidin, Vratsa, Razgrad, Smolyan, Targovishte. At the same time, as an average indicator, the number of pharmacies per capita, Bulgaria ranks among the first countries in Europe with 1806 people served in a pharmacy against a average European indicator of 4450 people served by a pharmacy. This shows that our country is in one of the top pharmacies per capita, but it is in one of the last places on access to pharmaceutical services. The regime for issuing marketing authorisations for medicinal products is laid down in the Act on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The right to carry out retail trade shall have any natural or legal person registered as a trader under the Bulgarian legislation or under the law of the Member State which meets the other requirements of the Law. The legislation in the country does not regulate the criteria regarding the distribution and density of pharmacies by territory or the mode of operation of pharmacies. The assessment of the place of establishment of a pharmacy, its mode of operation, the volume of services and products provided is only in the hands of the business initiative of the carrier of a marketing authorisation for medicinal products. In order to solve the problems, the Ministry of Health, in cooperation with the National Health Insurance Fund, the Bulgarian Drug Agency and the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, has taken action towards developing a package of measures to stimulate the provision of pharmaceutical services in small towns, weakly populated municipalities, which will be introduced by amending and supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The proposals aim at meeting the minimum needs of activities provided by pharmacies and stimulating the approach of pharmacies to patients in small towns. The introduction of the public-private partnership to provide pharmaceutical services in the settlements with difficult access to medicines is another way of dealing with the problem. Currently 39 municipal pharmacies are operating in the country, most of which are located in small towns. The disclosure of pharmacies in small settlements could also be carried out by negotiating a joint operation between municipalities and existing local companies holding a pharmacies permit. Where there are no pharmacies providing day-to-day work, the municipality could subsidise the operation of this activity. In regions where pharmacies do not have any profitability in maintaining drug relief activities paid by the NHIF, municipalities could also provide targeted subsidies to maintain this nomenclature. Since 2016, there has been an information platform developed by the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union for automated summary information combining the registers of the Ministry of Health, the Drug Executive Agency, the National Health Insurance Fund and the retail outlets of medicinal products. The same will be a valuable tool in drawing up the National Pharmacy Card and identifying the needs of the population and access to pharmaceutical services. In conclusion, the formation of various policies to stimulate the detection of pharmacies in municipalities with few populations and ensuring equal access to medicines, pharmaceutical services and care should be sought both in national health policy and in the policy of local authorities and regions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Yordanov, prior to your reply, we have young people from the Youth Parliament at the Municipal Youth Home at Ruse. Let's say hello to them. Welcome. [[Applause.]] Here you go, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, I am pleased with your answer because it is obvious that you are thinking about regulating the situation. I'd like to draw your attention to one situation. It is known that in small settlements where people are mostly in retirement age, the main drug supply or the purchase of medicines occurs at the beginning of the month when the Jeep discharged the drugs. In this aspect of thinking, I think that perhaps Mr. Mareshki will agree that it is not economically cost-effective for a pharmacy on each working day of the week to work as required with full-time. There was a proposal that involved the possibility of opening mobile pharmacies. I think that for our country and for the hard-to-reach regions this is a good proposal and must be regulated legally. So my additional question to you is: do you think about solving a mobile pharmacy market, if I may say so?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u57	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Yordanov, my answer will be brief: we are working on this topic. Of course, as you have said, a change in the regulatory framework is necessary in order to regulate this form of service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u59	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to you is addressed by the MPs Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova, Georgi Yordanov Yordanov and Ilian Angelov Timchev on the structure of the district hospitals. Who will present the question? Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Since the time of asking the question it has been some time and the answer has been a little delayed. At the time, you initiated a proposal to introduce a financial standard for managing district hospitals. I do not mind, I am not opposed to this standard, naturally, but we have always considered that the appropriateness of the existence of a hospital, of a hospital is something that is first in the chain, and then comes the financial provision of this activity. In this regard, I believe that before proposing this financial standard for the activities of regional hospitals and general hospitals in the country, there should be a standard that concerns the medical activities of state, university hospitals and those with predominantly state participation, because it would determine what volume of activity they should do and from there on the way of financing, regulation of funding and so on. Once again, I would like to confirm that the financial standard is a good thing and must be introduced. My question to you is: do you think about the medical standard for the activities of district hospitals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u61	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u62	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Professor Klisarova, Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev! The regulatory requirements for the structure of hospital care facilities are laid down in the Law on Medical Institutions in Ordinance No 49 of 2010 and the medical standards of the individual medical specialties. In addition to the general requirements for the number of structures depending on the type of medical establishment and the number of beds in them, Regulation No 49 lays down specific requirements, such as the mandatory establishment of a pathological compartment without beds, an emergency room with beds for diagnostic clarification within 24 hours, and a department of transfusion haematology. The number and type of other hospital clinics, wards and hospital beds revealed in them shall be determined according to the specific needs of the medical process, and shall be regulated in the Rules on the structure, activity and internal order of the medical establishment. In a specific section of the regulations establishing individual medical standards are the requirements for additional structures and activities which must be provided in order to carry out the activities of the medical speciality concerned. The regulatory requirements mentioned form the mandatory framework to which the structure of the hospital care facility must be consistent. These requirements are also complied with in the application of the Financial Management Standard of the State Health Services, which aims to stabilise the financial situation of hospitals by introducing uniform rules for management of financial and human resources, procurement, ongoing monitoring and reporting of activities. The closure or merger of structures shall be addressed only in cases where they do not comply with the requirements of the relevant medical standards in respect of the minimum required personnel and/or are ineffective due to the achieved minor volume of activity. So it is the existence of these structures that compromises the quality of medical care rather than their closure or merger. Regarding your question whether the Ministry of Health is planning to regulate a mandatory ward of district hospitals that exist regardless of their financial instability, as I have already mentioned, this has been done by Decree No 49. The imposition of more than the requirements laid down by this regulation, provided that some hospitals could not meet them, would only cause the hospitals themselves to be unable to exist, and this would make it even more difficult for the public to access hospital care. The needs of the population of available outpatient and hospital medical care are determined and planned on a territorial basis with the National Health Card. It enables hospital managers themselves, as well as investors willing to reveal medical institutions, to invest in the development of medical activities for which there is a shortage in the territory concerned. Last but not least, I believe that the administrative-command approach to the overall regulation of the structure of multi-profile hospital care facilities is too limited to all other hospitals in the relevant territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Line, Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u64	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I'll be brief. To understand, Minister Ananiev, I just want to look at the issue of the AG wards. Now we have a demographic crisis, and AG wards in district hospitals naturally do not work in full volume. They've got the bedside base, they've got the medical staff, everything's secure, but there's no mothers. It's clear why there aren't any mothers. When the teams that are healing the hospital pass, they say: this ward is economically disadvantageous and by market rules must be closed. Unfortunately, these wards serve patients with a status that does not allow them to give birth in private hospitals, because they enter this 1 million Bulgarian citizens who are uninsured, those Bulgarian citizens who cannot raise additional money for this important act of birth, and want to give birth in their district hospital or in the state hospital. However, they do not bring income to the health institution, but practically only expenses. God forbid the case is complicated and we have difficulties, and then we need blood transfusions and so on. Thus, the cost for these patients appears to be higher than the average cost of a normal birth, which is preferred by private hospitals. The point is that these wards, in the district hospitals, are doing their job, however, they are economically not carrying this income to say that this is an economically justified activity. So my point is to find these financial instruments to say that this department in this area should have it according to the National Health Card, to secure its funding, to keep its activities. If today we close the AG wards, I sincerely hope that there will come a time when Bulgarian girls and women will start giving birth in Bulgaria, then we will have already wiped out our footage and will not be able to because there will no longer be enough obstetricians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u65	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Will you have the back? No. Dear colleagues, Lord Minister, have informed me from the National Assembly's leadership that we should take 30 minutes off, and at 11.00 we will continue. In relation to what I read to you just now, I will read it to you once again: an exhibition will be opened in the Northern lobby on the occasion of 69 years from the day of the creation of the Belene concentration camp. The exhibition presents testimony to former concentration campers, memories of prisoners and repressed by communist power. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. At 11.00 we will continue with the other questions to the Minister of Health Mr. Ananiev. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u66	Honourable Members, we are continuing our work on parliamentary control. Let me make an announcement first. In connection with the upcoming Day of Labour and International Workers' Solidarity, Tuesday, I inform you that the Members of the National Assembly and the parliamentary groups may make their proposals for the work programme of the National Assembly for the week 2 - 4 May, under the terms and conditions of art. 50, para. 3 and para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly until 18:00 on Monday, 30 April 2018. We continue with the questions to the Minister of Health Mr. Kiril Ananiev. There is a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihaylov concerning the establishment of registers of diseases in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u67	Madam President, honourable Members. Dear Minister Ananiev, in recent years a commendable but serious fact is that there has been a significant increase in drug therapy funds that cover large groups of socially significant diseases and rare diseases spent by the National Health Insurance Fund. However, it is also known that the balance between public funds spent on drug therapy and public funds spent on hospital care was disturbed in the NHIF budget. One reason for this is the lack of an electronic file of patients, the lack of clear criteria for the application of especially high-tech therapy, but a serious reason for this is the lack of records of individual diseases in the Republic of Bulgaria, including rare diseases, regardless of the established Commission for Rare Diseases, which performed a small amount of work, but still do not exist in a full volume of registers for both individual diseases and rare diseases. My question to you is: what measures do you think the Ministry of Health urgently needs to take in order for this issue to be resolved both for the benefit of the funds spent and for clarification of the overall disease map in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u68	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u69	Dear Madam President, dear Professor Mihailov, a really good question. One of the directions in which the Ministry of Health has focused its efforts in the development of eHealth in the Republic of Bulgaria is through the implementation of the Project "Do build up of the national health information system "stage 1 and stage 2" under a procedure for providing financial assistance under the Operational Programme "Good Governance" 2014 " 2020" with priority e-health. Registers have a key role to play in the health care system. The work on them is carried out within the Project. A solution to the problem in the long term will be found through the realization of activity, development and further development of the necessary registers for the implementation of the National Health Information System. The scope of the activity is intended to develop and implement, upgrade or integrate at least 23 national electronic registers. The aim is to implement the electronicisation and standardisation of registers in the sector, which will facilitate the management of the processes of entry, change and deletion of data, their storage and their provision in real time to other systems. By building the web-based information system for the electronicisation of registers as an environment for self-creation and management of registers, it will be possible to develop and implement, upgrade and integrate registers in a structured form. The system will maintain standard processes with the possibility of recording, deletion and verification of circumstances and will control the processes in the information system while ensuring the necessary level of security and identification. At a later stage, a set of tools will be able to create separate type registers. This will allow additional registers to be added without the need for software changes. Last but not least, through the integration of registers, the creation of automatic data validity control capabilities and the preparation of specific wide-ranging reports on the needs of control bodies will achieve better results in improving control activities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u70	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Professor Mihailov, you have the opportunity to make a reply to Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u71	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Minister Ananiev, what you have presented as a concept is undoubtedly impressive, the problem is only that everything you say is about to be done. There is one problem that I would allow myself to share with you and is very important within the framework of the implementation of this programme. This is the centralisation of registers within the National Centre for Public Health. This was started by the previous team in the past government and it concerned problems of existing registers, but with relatively outdated models of registration, such as the Canzer-Register of Bulgaria. A decision was made to move this register to the National Centre for Public Health. Unfortunately, I do not know, but as far as I have information, the relocation of this register has encountered very great resistance, which can be met by the Ministry's management in the creation of these 23 registers, which you say, because they concern different groups of diseases, and normal is under the authority of the Ministry to urgently be created by the specialized scientific companies themselves. In this sense, I would help you with this idea and I would like to hear your opinion on what you think could be done by the Ministry's management in a specific plan in 2018? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u72	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here you are, dear Minister, to answer the question: "Is there resistance and are you ready to accept the idea of national companies dealing with this issue?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u73	Dear Professor Mihailov, as Minister for five months, I really haven't gone into the depths of this problem. I will meet colleagues about the state of this activity. Indeed, the link between the current registers is on a very outdated technological basis. Once we develop this project, which is extremely important for healthcare and raises the quality of the information system to a completely different level, the links between registers and the results that will be achieved, I think we should focus on it. Just to share with you that we are working very quickly on this project. At the end of June we will announce public procurement on all modules and we expect Bulgaria to have a National Health Information System and e-health system at the latest at the end of next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u74	Thank you. Before we proceed to the next question, honourable Members, I would like to inform you that students from the Leader club for student self-government at the Third Primary School of Dimitar Talev and Blagoevgrad are attending a visit to the National Assembly. Welcome! Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] We continue with the next question by the MPs Georgi Mihaylov and Milko Nedyalkov on the healing plan of the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment, Professor Paraskev Stoyanov, Lovech. Here you are, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u75	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, Mr. Minister, I will not be too much of a talker. You, as principal, must know the unfortunate financial condition of the hunting hospital. From the data that has reached us in recent weeks, there is again a problem with payment of wages. Even in the media came an open protest letter from the employees of the hunting hospital. The Ministry's leadership has announced a healing plan for the hospital. And in order not to be in the area of general wishes and comments, we would like to know from you what the financial results are in the last three months, compared to those of the months of January, February and March 2017, and how this healing plan is going so that the employees of the hospital and the citizens in the area can still find their peace for the future of health in this important region for Bulgaria. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u76	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Here you are, Minister Ananiev, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u77	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Professor Mihailov, Mr Nedyalkov! As a result and as part of the healing plan of the Multi-profile Hospital for Active Treatment, a prosecutor was appointed with the task of carrying out the healing plan, which includes restructuring of wards and beds and reducing costs in order for the medical institution to be able to service its activities on an ongoing basis. After a vacuum has been created, you know, in the long run of the RZIF, in the previous month the management of the medical establishment was placed before force majeure to provide funds for staff salaries, for which there is a contract for joint operation with another medical establishment. In the hospital continue the outlined steps in the implementation of the set parameters according to the healing plan. The second question. They are unparalleled for the first quarters of 2017 and 2018 the performance indicators due to the fact that payments and activities for invasive cardiology are still being made in 2017, carried out by the private structure of Cardio Life, whose revenue is being made at the Hospital Lovech. In comparison, the financial result reported for the quarter of this year 2018 is a loss that is double the loss for the first three months of 2017. Currently it is 205 thousand, compared to 391 thousand for the first quarter of 2017. All this is due to the progress of optimization of the activities in the medical establishment. The hospital's total revenue in comparison significantly decreases. Two million. Three hundred and thirty-seven thousand. lv. In 2017 the Commission decided to initiate the procedure 615 thousand. lv. in the first quarter of 2018, as I have already noted, due to the cessation of the activity of invasive cardiology. The total costs followed a downward trend in revenue, with an increase of 2 million. 728 thousand. lv. At the beginning of 2017, it fell to 1 million. 820,000. lv. for the first quarter of 2018 Significant is the trend of reduction in the cost of medicines and consumables of 326 thousand. lv. In 2017, 181 thousand. lv. in the first quarter of 2018, the Council adopted Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] amending Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council [3] laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of In the short-term obligations to suppliers for the first quarters of 2017 and 2018 there is also a reduction of 3 million. Eight hundred and sixty-seven thousand. lv. At 3 million. 048 thousand. lv. The average number of staff in the first quarter of 2017 was 386 employed against 302 employed for the first quarter of this year and the process of optimizing staff costs has not yet been completed. There are also some major medical-statistical indicators, namely a reduction in the number of patients passed from three thousand in the first quarter of 2017, to two thousand four hundred thirty-one people in the first quarter of 2018. The value of one who passed through the disease, which from 754, 52 BGN. for the first quarter of 2017, optimize within the limits of BGN 594. for the quarter of 2018 The problems related to the difficult financial condition of the medical establishment are complex and are not from a day and two, but accumulated for many years. Time and joint efforts are needed to overcome them and the Ministry of Health is doing everything possible in this direction in order to preserve the hospital. Dr. Paraskev Stoyanov. All legal opportunities will be used for the hospital to continue working in the service of the citizens of Lovech district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u78	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Before I give the floor for a reply, Members of the National Assembly, please congratulate the students from secondary school Tsanko Bakalov Tserkovski, Nikola Koslevo village, Shumen district, who are guests of parliament today. [[Applause.]] Dear Mr Nedyalkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u79	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am delighted that you once again confirmed that the Ministry of Health will work further, within the limits of legal possibilities, to preserve this important medical facility on the territory of Lovech region. I'm worried about the fact that in this medical facility, there's a paradox. There is no need here for the Ministry of Health or any other state structure to close it down. It is at risk of shutting itself down because of the breakdown of the healing activity in this multi-profile hospital for active treatment. At the beginning of April a collective resignation passed the pulmonary ward, two weeks later the threshold was to be closed and the gastroenterological department. I thank the procurist whom the Ministry of Health has appointed, who has managed to persuade people to stay and continue to work in this medical facility. They've been protesting again for three days. They protest because they are not paid three salaries, that they do not see the perspective of the activities of this medical establishment. The rest that you have read here as a positive fact of reducing the cost of medicines, they are worried that due to lack of medicines, medicines and other auxiliary materials, they cannot perform quality medical activities and therefore reduces the flow of patients. It's a lot to deal with. Difficulty in this medical facility is even to find a guide. As you can see, the board of directors resigned a long time ago. There is no general meeting, there is no one on the one hand to take responsibility, and also to have a dialogue with the people who have remained, and, I would like to say, are real local patriots who work in this medical establishment. We would support any efforts of the Ministry of Health in this direction to preserve the medical establishment. In an open letter, people from there hinted at another time. 100 of the Law on Hospitals. This is the only legal way, the only legal norm that the Ministry of Health has not exercised in recent years. Maybe it's time to apply it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u80	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Here you are, Minister Ananiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u81	Dear Mr. Nedyalkov, indeed the staff of the hunting hospital did not receive three salaries, but what you probably know is that from the moment we developed and entered the recovery plan, there is not a month in which they did not receive their remuneration. It may be a day or two later, but they get their reward every month anyway. The idea with this healing plan was to create such conditions that it would start to receive more revenue so that, along with the return of its debt to creditors, it would remain something to pay some of the old salaries that they did not receive. Unfortunately, the main creditor of the hunting hospital is the private hospital and we are... [[Reply.]] Yeah, and the NRA, but the NRA and I are dealing with it, it's not a fatal obligation to the NRA. We have invited the director of the Cardiolife tomorrow to talk to him again to raise the bank's balance so that the hospital can function normally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u82	Thank you, dear Minister. Next is a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov, Hristo Prodanov and Rumen Georgiev on the policy of the Ministry of Health regarding the National Specialized Hospital for Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation. Here you go, Mr. Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The issue arose due to the serious public interest on the subject and also many media publications. I know there are signals that have been sent to you, too. I would like to show how important the hospital is by sharing with you that it was established in 1949 as the Institute for Resortology and Physotherapy... now National Specialized Hospital for Physics Therapy and Rehabilitation, which scientifically develops balneo-, air conditioning and problems of physical medicine and rehabilitation. The properties were donated for this purpose and with the help of the local population this hospital was built. For many years the Institute has been integrated into the Medical Academy, there is also a laboratory that works successfully. Decision No 30 of 13 January 2017 of the Council of Ministers transferred part of the capital to Sofia Municipality for free. According to the analyses, this decision is not appropriate and legitimate in the light of the obligations which it currently has in the order of 182 thousand. BGN, which will seriously hamper the activities of the hospital. However, they're being transferred. In a conversation with a colleague of mine, Mr. Hristo Prodanov, you said you were implementing the Council of Ministers' decision. In this regard, we are interested in what is actually the policy of the Ministry of Health at this hospital because it is unique? A few other questions also arise: what are the reasons for the release of the current director of the hospital? Why is the hospital decapitalized in this way, and last but not least, why is the hospital's capital heavily undervalued? I'll just tell you that he's listed at 534 thousand. lv. It's even smaller now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u85	Mr. Tsonkov, Mr. Prodanov and Mr. Georgiev! The State is the sole owner of the capital of the National Specialized Hospital for Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation. The rights of the State as sole owner shall be exercised by the Minister of Health. In accordance with art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, the company is on the mandatory list of privatisations. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the Ministry of Health has not been discussed and the issue of liquidation or transformation of the company is not on the agenda. The vision of the current management team of the Ministry is the same to maintain its current status, to maintain the medical activity carried out as volume and quality and to develop in a positive direction. The laboratory that is located in it, as you stressed, is the first specialized laboratory in the country for analysis of mineral waters and the only one in Bulgaria to prepare balneological assessments for the Ministry of Health, which is another important and serious reason for preserving the medical establishment and the activity carried out. In the context of this reply, I would like to add that yesterday, my Deputy Minister of Health, visited the hospital, met with the hospital staff, told about our vision of how we see it developing. People are calm and working right now. That he had transferred a property that was at the hospital to Sofia Municipality, indeed, it is a decision of the Council of Ministers and I can't help but keep it. I have to keep it. No procedural action has been made with regard to the Trade Register since the decision was taken by the Council of Ministers. That is why, of course, the Director is responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u86	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Tsonkov, come in for a line. Colleagues, let's say hello to the ladies of Kardzhali, who are visiting us today on the balcony. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I am not satisfied with your answer because with the implementation of the Council of Ministers' decision you are actually decapitalizing the hospital. For the previous director, I will only tell you that last year he submitted several investment proposals for the hospital's recovery. They were rejected by the Ministry of Health. Meanwhile, you yourself said that the properties so far have not been registered with Sofia Municipality. How, then, Sofia Municipality, with its structures, wrote and applied with these properties under the Operational Program "Science and education for smart growth" and won them at the value of 30 million? Moreover, you said that the Laboratory is successful and is one of the oldest makes science. One project is to create exactly such a new laboratory. Why? This is ridiculous! A few questions arise: You say you will not liquidate the hospital, but provided that out of 530 thousand you reduce to 80. 90 thousand capital, how can this hospital function? Moreover, it is the only one of its kind and, not least, there can still work people with small opportunities to go and heal themselves. Another question arises regarding these European projects: does the municipality want to steal the property of the hospital, which is 52 decares, and buildings that have both cultural and architectural value? Who's gonna take that $30 million? [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Apparently the appetites are for the money, to steal the properties and 30 million that are on the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u88	The weather, Mr. Tsonkov. Thank you. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat. There's not gonna be a duvet. We continue with the next question by the MPs Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova, Ilian Angelov Timchev and Georgi Yordanov Yordanov on the implementation of EU Regulation 2016/679 and the Council of 27 April 2016. Mrs. Klisarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u89	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We all know that a Regulation of the European Union 2016 on the protection of personal data is to be implemented. They say personal data to users-clients and in the health field, you know that these are our patients. Many courses, seminars that explain how this regulation will be implemented in our terms and how it will be respected in relation to the protection of personal data have already been organised in the public domain. Unfortunately, our colleagues took part in these seminars for payment. That's not the biggest problem. The problem is that when asked how to apply this regulation in the field of health, much of the lecturers have no answer and cannot direct how to properly implement the Regulation. You know that medical, non-medical specialists and a large group of students, such as medical students and other medical specialties, nurses, midwives work in the field of health. They all have the personal data of patients, and in the Regulation they fall within the group of highly sensitive data, as is precisely under the European Regulation. Therefore, our question to you is: does the Ministry of Health provide for action to be taken and to draw up methodical guidelines to clarify the practical application of the Regulation in the activities of medical institutions and the training of medical professionals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u90	Thank you, esteemed Professor Klisarova. Here you are, dear Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u91	Mrs. Chairman, Prof. Klisarova, Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev! The Regulation is generally applicable, binding in its entirety and directly applicable. It shall apply directly in all Member States as soon as it enters into force without having to be transposed into national law. Pursuant to Recital 139 of the preamble to Regulation 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data repealing Directive 95/46/EC, a European Data Protection Committee is hereby established as an independent body of the European Union, which will replace the Working Group for the Protection of Individuals with regard to the processing of personal data established by Directive 95/46/EC. As of now, the working group under art. 29 shall assist Member States in their efforts to prepare for the implementation of the Regulation. The European Data Protection Committee will not only issue guidelines on the interpretation of basic concepts of the Regulation but will also be called upon to adopt a binding decision on disputes concerning cross-border data processing. This will ensure the uniform application of European Union provisions and prevent the same issues from being resolved differently in different Member States. Since the existence of a comprehensive and uniform set of guidelines is essential for personal data operators, the current guidelines at national level must be either repealed or aligned with the guidelines in the same area adopted by the Working Group under art. 29 by the European Data Protection Committee, respectively. Next. As authorities for the implementation of the Regulation and having direct contacts with stakeholders, national data protection authorities at national level are responsible for this is the Commission for the protection of personal data and are tasked with raising awareness and being the first point of contact for controllers processing personal data and for individuals. Notwithstanding the fact that the Ministry of Health does not have the power to develop and provide guidance on the practical application of the General Data Protection Regulation, given the specific and importance of the issue of the sector, the conduct of a joint meeting between the Ministry of Health, the Personal Data Protection Commission and the National Health Insurance Fund will be initiated to discuss specific issues concerning the implementation of the Regulation by hospital services, namely analysis of personal data processing activities; management of personal data protection risks; action plans for the introduction of certain technical and organisational measures; review of legal grounds for the processing of personal data, including on the basis of consent of individuals; awareness of data subjects and transparency of processing; practical exercise of rights by data subjects; notification of personal data breach, documentation and accountability. The medical establishments will be notified of the outcome of the meeting in order to be assisted in the practical implementation of the Regulation by them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u92	Thank you, dear Minister. Professor Klisarova, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u93	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Minister! I must say, we have heard a very complicated and difficult scheme for medical workers how this regulation will be applied, but I would like to tell you that everyone is counting on this meeting. I welcome the idea of having such a meeting between the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data, the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund. We all agree that the Regulation must be implemented, that it must comply with European standards, but we are not clear on how this is going to happen? Let this meeting be sooner, because if we have to apply the regulation in May, we do not have time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u94	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Mr. Minister, you don't want the back. There is a question from the MP Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Anelia Klisarova about the structure and optimization of the work of regional health inspections. The question will be asked by Dr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In the last year, the structure and number of staff in the regional health inspection system in the country changed. The aim of these changes was to optimise the work of the units, increase the remuneration of staff and ensure the quality of their activities. One of the main ones we pleaded for in the adoption of the state budget for 2018 in the part of the Ministry of Health is the increase in salaries of employees and experts working in regional health inspections. Unfortunately, that didn't happen. The increase in basic remuneration in most inspections in the country is between two and five percent. You are aware that it concerns the regulation and control activity in healthcare and, last but not least, the fight against vicious practices in hospitals. Our question to you is: is there an optimization of the structure and number of staff in regional health inspections and the measures taken guaranteeing quality of activity and satisfaction of staff? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u96	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Here you are, Minister Ananiev, for an answer to this question, which excites many of those who work in the RZI.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u97	Mrs. Chairman, Prof. Klisarova, Associate Professor Yordanov and Dr. Timchev! In accordance with art. 8 of the Health Act regional health inspections are legal entities of budget support to the Minister of Health and are created, transformed and closed by the Council of Ministers. The Regional Health Inspections were established by Decree of the Council of Ministers No 1 of 2011, as the hosts of the transformed regional health centres of RDC and the regional inspections for the protection and control of public health. The employment and service relationships of employees from the transformed structures have remained, including the amount of individual basic monthly salaries. Due to the lack of free funds for staff costs on the budgets of the RDC and RIOCOZ at the date of conversion, on the one hand, and, on the other, the difference in individual basic monthly salaries of the individual categories of staff between the two entities in the newly formed regional health inspections has remained and significant disproportions have emerged. In recent years, the number of inspections has been optimized several times and in 2011 the total number has been reduced from 3341 posts to 3005 posts in total for the new structure. In 2014, the total number of inspections was again reduced to 2904 posts, and with the latest administration optimization in 2015, the total number of posts in inspections was again reduced to 2500 posts. The permanent trend for reducing the number of staff in recent years is visible. The State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 provides funds for the budget of the Ministry of Health in relation to the increase of the minimum wage, as well as for the increase of salaries of workers in regional health inspections. The Ministry of Health, as of 14 March 2018, allocated the budgets to 28 regional health inspections, which set an increase in staff funds from 1 January 2018, Dr. Timchev, by 18% year-round. The increase in the basic monthly salaries of the public administration employees was regulated in the Staff Regulations of Officials of the State Administration from 2012 and provided for the increase of the basic monthly salaries to be made according to the annual assessment for the performance of the post in the previous calendar year in a percentage ratio of up to 15%. Three groups are: 5%, 10% and 15%. The additional allocation for staff costs of regional health inspections allows for an increase in employee salaries, as well as the provision of vacant posts and the payment of additional remuneration for results. It gives the opportunity to develop both young specialists at the beginning of their development and career, as well as staff with proven experience, knowledge and skills. In conclusion. The analysis of the structure and number of staff in the RZI system showed a very different practice in the organization of work and staff structures in the individual RZIs. In this regard, the Ministry of Health took action to optimise their functions and tasks and introduce a single system of work and organisation in the administrative activity. During the next week meetings will be held with representatives of the RZI to discuss the issues raised by you as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u98	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Again, I give the floor to Dr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ananiev! The last thing you said was also the point of the question that I should hear from you, because what happened in the years, in the structure and in the organisation of the activities of regional health inspections is the same if we look at a pyramid turned around. We need to get the pyramid back to being a proper pyramid, because now the management staff, the services that run these units, are more than the working and actually performing this work. Anything else. One employee is a civil servant and the other is not, one has the right to increase his remuneration, and the other is hindered by the Regulation. You actually have money to increase their remuneration, to be fair to their increase, and at the same time the Ordinance prevents you from carrying out this activity. It happens that the structure should reflect the activity rather than the activity to fit into the current structure. I hope this happens because the protests of the system workers won't stop. On the contrary, they will even escalate and it will happen that in separate places in the country these structures cannot actually carry out their activities. There are employees who perform three jobs at the same time and at the same time there is no financial expression of this. I'll give you the protest declaration. It is also awarded to the Ministry's representative on the day of the protest, but still, as it is addressed specifically to you, I will present it to you. [[The National Representative Ilian Timchev submitted the declaration to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u100	Thank you, Dr. Timchev. Would you like a douche? Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u101	Dr. Timchev was very right. As soon as the new team of the Ministry took over the tasks, we encountered incredible differences in structure, organisation, functioning, pay of labor. This thing has led us to make a decision and really create common rules on the basis of which to operate regional health inspections. I would even tell you that this is the reason why I have not yet accepted and proposed the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, so we are working hard. The conversation we will have with them will be correct, concrete and I hope effective. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u102	Thank you, Mr. Minister, on my behalf and on behalf of the Members of the National Assembly for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions and answers of the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. The first question is asked by the National Representative Valentin Lambev about the extraction of limestone from the locality of Mingemar and the land of the village of Balvan, Veliko Tarnovo municipality. Here you are, dear Mr. Lambev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u103	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! The question I am asking you is provoked by tensions in the village of Balvan in connection with the upcoming revelation of a concession, there is even a petition going against the disclosure of this concession and there are serious concerns in the inhabitants of the village. In this regard, it is also my question to you. I was approached by residents of the village of Balvan, Municipality of Veliko Tarnovo, worried about the upcoming discovery of a career and the provision of a concession for the extraction of limestone from the locality of Mingemar. The worries of the residents are that the site is located in the territory of a forest fund and agricultural land, with a wide variety of plant and animal species that will have to be destroyed. The views of the mayor of the village of Balvan and the mayor of Veliko Tarnovo are also negative on the exploitation of the fields. In this regard, I am asking for your reply to the following: at what stage and with what parameters is the procedure for granting concession for the locality In what way will you react and what will you do in response to the legitimate concerns and reluctance of the inhabitants of the village of Balvan? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Lambev. Come in for an answer, Minister Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u105	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Lambev, by Decision No 118 of 15 September 2011, issued by the Minister of Economy, Energy and Tourism of the Commercial Company In accordance with the quoted authorisation on 13 November 2015 between the designated owner and the Minister of Energy, a contract was concluded for the study of construction materials, under the order of the Law on Underground Treasures for a period of one year in force from 15 December 2015. Geological research activities were carried out in 2016, and after completion and in accordance with the provisions of the Law on Underground Resources, the trading company owner submitted to the Ministry of Energy a final geological report and an application for registration of a commercial discovery. Under the current legal framework, a necessary condition for issuing a certificate of commercial discovery of a site of underground wealth is the existence of an effective decision on environmental impact assessment approving the implementation of the investment plan for extraction. If the Regional Environmental Protection Inspectorate approves the implementation of the investment proposal for the extraction of underground wealth from the locality of Mingemar with a decision in force, it shall, on the basis of art. 21, para. 7, p. 2 of the Law on Underground Treasures of the applicant should be issued a certificate of commercial discovery of a field of underground wealth, after which there are a number of coordination procedures to be followed, including with the competent ministers for the protection of national security and defence of the country, for the protected areas, objects and cultural values, as well as with the mayor of the municipality on whose territory the requested concession area is situated. Only after receiving positive opinions from the competent ministers and from the mayor of the respective municipality shall the next coordination be made according to the order of art. 32 of the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Ministers and its administration with all members of the Council of Ministers. If the opinions submitted are positive, the Council of Ministers shall adopt a decision to grant a concession. In the event that the RIEW does not approve the implementation of the investment proposal for the extraction of underground wealth, with an effective decision, it shall, on the basis of art. 21, para. 8, p. 3 of the Law on Underground Treasures, the Minister of Energy, motivated refuses the registration of a commercial discovery. The refusal of the Minister of Energy is an individual administrative act and is subject to judicial appeal. The EIA procedure has not yet been completed, as is apparent from the foregoing. And here is the point to point out that, under the current legislation, residents of the respective locality have the opportunity to exercise their rights in carrying out the environmental impact assessment procedure of this particular investment proposal by expressing an opinion in carrying out the mandatory public consultation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u106	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Lambev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u107	Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. The procedure is clear, we are aware that there is still a road that needs to be walked, but I would like to say that the villagers, of course, will have an attitude in public discussion, because in addition to the land of the village of Balvan, there are ultimately affecting the lands and two other settlements, which also have their concerns, as the possible concessionation would lead to problems with the municipal road infrastructure during the passage, with dusting, with disruption of the ecological balance. In any case, we will monitor this process and respond to the interests of the residents of the settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u108	Thank you, Lord Lambev. Would you like a douche? Here you are, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u109	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Lambev, really the procedure is underway and now is the time for residents of the specific settlement to express their opinion. I use this case to assure the residents of the respective locality and all Bulgarian citizens that the legislator has very clearly signed all the rules and procedures that are related to the finalisation of such a process and in them the place of the right of opinion of the respective residents of the locality is clearly established and reflected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u110	Thank you. Next is a question from the MPs Alexander Nenkov, Daniela Maleshkova, Desislava Todorova and Martin Tinchev on the Programme BG04 Energy efficiency and renewable energy. Please ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u111	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, Programme BG04 Energy efficiency and renewable energy was aimed at increasing energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources for heating in buildings in the production of biomass fuels, as well as activities for training and promotion of measures in the field of energy efficiency and renewable energy. During the last programming period were Bulgarian municipalities, small and medium-sized enterprises, training organisations and universities. In this regard, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: has an analysis of the results of the previous programming period under the Programme BG04 Energy efficiency and renewable energy and what does it show? In what deadlines is the launch of the new Energy Efficiency Programme expected and are its main parameters clear? What will be its resource and will Bulgarian municipalities be able to take advantage of the opportunities of the Programme?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u112	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. Here you are, Madam Minister, for the answer to that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Todorova, Programme BG04 "Energy efficiency and renewable energy" with Program Operator The Ministry of Energy was financed under the Financial Mechanism of the European Economic Area 2009 "2014" with a budget of 15 million. Six hundred thousand. EUR, including 13 million. $260,000. EUR, or 85% grant, and 2 million Three hundred and thirty thousand. EUR, or 15% national co-financing. The maximum aid amount was up to 100% of the eligible costs of the projects. Four open project selection procedures were carried out under the Programme and 52 grant contracts were concluded and implemented respectively and one contract for implementation of a pre-defined project, application of the European electricity market in Bulgaria, Phase No 2. The beneficiaries of the Programme were 32 municipalities, nine small and medium-sized enterprises and nine training organisations. In connection with the implementation of the Ministry's obligations as programme operator, the financial mechanism for approval and final technical and financial reports were drawn up and submitted to the Office of the Financial Mechanism for the analysis of the results achieved. In April 2017, the implementation of all 53 projects under the Programme was successfully completed. The total value of the verified and paid-up funds of the completed contracts amounted to 25 million. 452,000. BGN, which represents 92% of the planned funds for the implementation of the projects. Saved emissions are 71,000. 809 tons of carbon dioxide, five thousand. 605 megawatt hours a year saved energy and 43,000. 280 megawatts per year increased production of renewable energy. Here is the point to note that the Bulgarian municipalities were the main beneficiary of the Programme. Energy efficient activities and renewables were implemented in 115 municipal property buildings, of which 40 schools, 55 kindergartens, eight medical centers, 12 social institutions and administrative buildings. Verified and paid to municipalities is 20 million. 681 thousand. BGN, or 93% of the allocated funds for the implementation of the projects. On 9 December 2016, a Memorandum of Understanding on the implementation of the Financial Mechanism of the European Economic Area 2014 was signed. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. According to the signed Memorandum, the Ministry of Energy is the programmer of the new Programme The programme has a budget of 32 million. 941 thousand. EUR, of which 28 million EUR or 85% grant and 4 million 941 thousand. EUR, or 15% national co-financing. The concept developed by the Ministry of Energy of the new Programme was approved on 17 April this year by the Committee of the Financial Mechanism of the European Economic Area. The concept envisions one of the main eligible beneficiaries of the Programme to be the Bulgarian municipalities again, with expectations after mid-September this year to actually give the start to the first procedures and the new Programme to be announced accordingly. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u114	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mrs. Todorova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u115	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your comprehensive response. In my meetings with voters, citizens express support for the Programme, as the effect of it is ecological, social, economic, the lives of buildings are extended. I hope it continues, people and businesses have the opportunity to take advantage of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Todorova. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mrs. Todorova, this mechanism has indeed proved extremely good in terms of potential beneficiaries, as it has also become clear from the report that we have drawn up. For the most part, these are the Bulgarian municipalities and I believe that this measure to support energy efficiency in municipal buildings, in small and medium-sized enterprises has proved to be an extremely appropriate mechanism. Therefore, I also appeal within the new programming period for Bulgarian municipalities, Bulgarian small and medium-sized enterprises to be ready with appropriate projects aimed at the energy efficiency of buildings, respectively, to be able to apply again successfully after the second half of September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u118	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Next is a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev, Diana Savateva, Galya Vasileva and Asya Peeva on the security of the electricity system. Here you are, dear Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u119	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, we are on the verge of starting the summer tourist season and in this regard guaranteeing the security and reliability of the power supply is crucial for the optimal functioning of the country's electricity system. In this regard, my question to you, Madam Minister, is: what reconstructions and modernizations of the electricity network in Southeastern Bulgaria have been taken over the past year and what is to be done in order to ensure electricity supply in the region and in particular in the Southern Black Sea region? As we all know, there is concentrated the largest bed base of the largest Black Sea resorts and during the summer tourist season the consumption of electricity increases times. energy that is key to a successful tourist season. Following major accidents at the ESO facilities (the Electric System Operator) in March 2015 in the Rhodope area, what measures were taken by the transmission operator to secure the transmission network in the region? What repair activities have been undertaken to restore the affected electricity lines and how many funds have been invested in their reconstruction? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u120	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Come in for an answer, dear Mrs. Petkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u121	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, a very up-to-date and timely question. The guarantee of reliable electricity supply throughout the country, including the region of South and South East Bulgaria, is one of the main priorities in the work of the Electricity System Operator. For this purpose, the company shall carry out the reconstruction and modernisation of the air lines serving the two regions in a timely manner. With regard to South East Bulgaria, in particular the South Black Sea coast, in 2017 the ESO conducted the modernization of the airline of 110 kilovolts of the city of Varna and the renovation led to an increase in the security of the power supply in the direction of the town of Karnobat. The reconstruction of the 110 kilovolt airline in the section passing through the well-built sediments of the city of Neftohim Burgas, solved problems with the corroded poles from the aggressive environment and led to an increase in the service resource of the line, as well as an increase in the security of the resorts located south of the city of Burgas. The repair of the 110 kilovolt airline "Granichar" led to an increase in the capacity of the network in the area of hydroelectric power station "Ivaylovgrad" "the town of Elhovo" and the power supply of the substations in the region of Primorsko and Malko Tarnovo. This year, the reconstruction of the 220 kilovolt airline will begin from TPP Maritsa East 2 to substation "Kornobat" which was put into operation more than 50 years ago. By the end of August, it is also planned to complete the reconstruction of an open distribution system of 110 kilovolts in substations. The substation feeds domestic and industrial users of the cities of Karnobat and Sungurlare, as well as the traction substation of Karnobat. The completion of the reconstruction of the two sites will book the power supply of the entire region and will ensure the security of the electricity supply of the resorts on the Southern Black Sea coast. The investments made will be close to 6 million. Three hundred thousand. lv. For sub-station, the Carnobat and about 26 million. lv. for airline 220 kilovolts. With regard to the question you have raised regarding the really harsh winter conditions in the Rhodope region, as you rightly pointed out, really unprecedented low temperatures, snowfalls, we all remember 2015, led to serious accidents in the Rhodope region. In this regard, immediate measures were taken by the Power System Operator and the rapid restoration of the emergency lines, and as soon as the crisis situation was resolved, a complete reconstruction of the power lines was also started. lv. Both lines were put into operation through 1961. The main renovation with replacement of pillars was carried out on the 110 kilovolt airline. The value of the reconstruction was close to 5 million. $700,000. lv. The capacity increase was also achieved in the Haskovo-based area of Kardzhali, with the reconstruction of nearly 5 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. Work projects for the reconstruction of the 110 kilovolt airline are also prepared.The purpose of the renovation is to increase the capacity of the power line in the power station. In order to increase the security of the line by installing new pillars, approximately 5 million are envisaged. lv. In addition, a reconstruction of an open distribution system of 110 kilovolts of substation is envisaged, which is expected to amount to around 3 million. lv. Of great importance for the safe operation of the power lines and ensuring the security of the power supply in the Rhodope region is the regular cleaning of the prosecs in their mountain part. In 2017, 1890 decares were cleaned, in which the ESO invested just over 340 thousand. lv. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I can boldly say that the team of the Electricity System Operator is working extremely purposefully and very motivated to ensure the energy security of the Bulgarian citizens. A serious resource is invested in modernisation and rehabilitation, and I believe that the results are also present. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u122	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petkova. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u123	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I am pleased with your answer. Indeed, many adequate measures have been taken by the ESO and by the Ministry to secure the seamless power supply, which is indeed at the heart of not only a successful tourist season, but of people's lives at all. I do understand that we have many depreciated facilities, many exploited, many years of age, but you do have a serious analysis, you have focused where it is most necessary, and I really think that this will be enough to make us more comfortable for the upcoming tourist season and at all for the seamless power supply and supply of power by the ESO and by operators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u124	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Boychev, a really great challenge is facing the Bulgarian Electricity System Operator, as one part of the network is very old, depreciated, but colleagues work very well and we manage to participate in projects under the operational programmes of the European Union which are related to interconnection between countries. There are also several sites, several projects that are extremely important and they may be mentioned in the next issue, which is also presented by MPs, but five of these projects are really projects of common interest and they are very important. We will receive funding from the European Union, which is also another guarantee for the security of our system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. There are two more questions for you. The first one is from the MPs Petya Tsvetanova Avramova, Desislava Angelova Todorova and Martin Vladimirov Timchev on projects of the Electricity System Operator. Here you are, Mrs Avramova, to raise the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u127	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! The electricity system operator shall implement the single operational planning, coordination and management of the electricity system of the Republic of Bulgaria. The company is responsible for the joint operation of the electricity system with other countries' electricity systems, ensuring the operation, maintenance, reliable operation of the transmission network, maintenance of auxiliary networks and repair and services in the field of energy. In this regard, my question to you is: how many and what projects with attracted European funding implement the independent transmission operator of Bulgaria, which will help improve the security of electricity supply and the efficiency of the electricity system in the region? What is the amount of European co-financing? At what stage is the realization of each of these projects? Since I have read information about the construction of electricity lines with such funding, would you give a little more information about the realization of projects and the commissioning of electricity lines. How will this contribute to the integration of electricity markets in the region and contribute to the construction of trans-European energy infrastructure? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u128	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Avramova! The electricity system operator is working on the implementation of five projects that have received the status of projects of common European interest under Regulation 347 of 2013 on the construction of trans-European infrastructure. At the end of September 2017, the five projects became part of the Memorandum to complement the gas interconnection initiative with Central and South East Europe, where projects related to electricity connectivity between countries were involved. The projects implemented by the ESO are united in two main groups: the first includes the supply line of 400 kilovolts between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Hellenic Republic from the substation of Maritsa East to the substation of Nea Santa and several internal power lines of 400 kilovolts. The second group envisions strengthening the interconnection between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Romania and includes the project for the construction of an electricity line of 400 kilovolts between substation "Varna" and substation "Burgas" in Bulgarian territory and two electricity lines to Romanian territory. The total length of the new 400 kilovolt power lines is approximately 480 km with an investment value of 245 million euros. At the moment, the ECO has implemented pre-investment activities for all projects of common interest with free funding from the European Financial Mechanism for Connecting Europe, with the amount for free funding of approximately EUR 1 million. For the construction of the electricity lines was attracted free financing under the International Fund "Kozloduy" and by the Connecting Europe Facility. $31 million. lv. The construction of 94km of electricity line will be co-financed by the International Fund of Kozloduy from substation Plovdiv to substation of Maritsa East. By means of the Connecting Europe Facility of 120 million. lv. will be co-financed the construction of the electricity lines of 400 kilovolts from substation "Maritsa East" to substation "Burgas" and from substation "Varna" to substation "Burgas." The first envisions the construction of approximately 150 km of an airline of 400 kilovolts from substation of Maritsa East to substation of Burgas with a capacity of 1500 megawatts, and in 2018, the launch of construction and installation works is expected in order to put it into operation in mid 2021. The second power line has a length of 86 km and connects substation Varna. It is part of the group of projects of common European interest to increase capacity between Bulgaria and Romania, known as the Black Sea Corridor. Pre-investment activities for the construction of the electricity line are due to be completed by the end of May this year. The inter-system power line of 400 kilovolts between substation "Maritsa East", Republic of Bulgaria. Substation "Nea Santa", Republic of Greece, is realized by the Electricity System Operator jointly with the Greek independent transmission operator, and in this year is about to prepare a joint bid to attract free funding for the construction of the second interconnection between Bulgaria and Greece. It should be noted that the five projects of common European interest implemented by the ESO are key to the implementation of the priority energy corridor North-South and the trans-European energy infrastructure. The implementation of the projects will solve key infrastructure needs for increasing the capacity of the electricity grid, will lead to improved security of supply in the region, as well as speeding up market integration. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u131	Dear Mrs. Petkova, I welcome the efforts of the ESO and the Ministry of Energy to attract grants, external funding to implement projects and activities so important for our energy. I know that implementing such projects will improve the service, increase energy security, reduce costs. Investments in security of the ESO facilities and network, as well as investments in energy connectivity, are part of the country's overall energy security and I wish successful implementation of all projects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u132	Thank you, dear Mrs Avramova. Let's get to the last question. He is one of the MPs Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva, Georgi Zaprev Dinev, Emil Serafimov Tonchev, Stefan Apostolov Apostolov and Alexander Ivanov Matsurev on the gas interconnection Greece Which of the colleagues will ask the question? Colleagues are gone to ask their questions. How are we going to move on if Minister Radev is not here? Do we have any information? [[Noise and lines.]] The Minister is on his way, and those who have questions to him are in the Chamber. Let's hear the last question to Mrs. Petkova. The coworkers are already in the room. Please come in and ask your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Petkova, please excuse me for being late. We have a question with colleagues from Blagoevgrad region and it is about the gas interconnection Greece. This link envisions the construction of a pipeline that will connect directly the national transmission networks of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Bulgaria. The pipeline will also have an important strategic role and will provide real diversification of the sources and routes of natural gas supply to Bulgaria. In this regard, our question to you, Minister, is: at what stage is the project for the construction of the gas interconnection Greece, Bulgaria; when is it expected to start the construction of the pipeline and its introduction into commercial exploitation?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Saveclieva, first of all, I would like to note the actuality of your question. Indeed, the construction of the Greek interconnection is a very important project, a key project of strategic importance not only for Bulgaria and for Greece, but also for the entire region of Southeast Europe. This is a project that will enable real diversification of the natural gas supply source. It is also one of the main priorities in part of the programme of our government. The information I can present to you is up-to-date at the moment, but before that, if I may say so, that, as early as 2015, a final investment decision for the shareholders was adopted in December, respectively, of the project IGI Poseidon and IGI Poseidon. On the basis of the capital structure and financial parameters approved by the shareholders, the project company applies for funding, which is a necessary condition for starting the construction. At the moment, the project company "ICBG" has approved grant funding for the project of 45 million. EUR under the European Energy Recovery Programme. A final decision is also expected from the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme "Innovation and Competitiveness" which should be confirmed by the European Commission to amend the program and include the company "IGB" as a qualifying beneficiary. Under the programme, the project has the opportunity to receive free funding amounting to 39 million. Euros. In addition to the approved grant and the application for additional financing, the Bulgarian Government has approved in the adopted budget for 2018 a state guarantee of 110 million. EUR, when negotiating a loan for the project. In this respect BEH as a shareholder with 50% of the shareholding in the project company and a potential beneficiary of a state guaranteed loan is in the process of negotiating the terms of the loan and guarantee agreement with the financial institutions. It should be noted that at the beginning of March this year, after negotiations between shareholders at a management level meeting, a decision was taken to optimize the capital structure in accordance with the instructions given by Jaspers and the European Commission. Based on the decision to change the capital structure, the project company is in the process of updating, of cost analysis, which needs to confirm the amount of the financial deficit when applying new financial parameters. At present, in terms of the status of co-ordination and authorisation procedures for the project are in place: an environmental impact assessment decision for the whole route; a detailed development plan for the entire route of the Bulgarian territory entered into force; approved and agreed technical design for the whole route of Bulgarian territory and completed the design of the Greek section; a building permit for the Bulgarian territory issued and entered into force. In November 2016, the market test for reserve capacity of the pipeline was successfully completed, within which offers were received from five traders to book about 1 billion. 570 million. cubic meters of natural gas, of the total proposed 2.7 billion. cubic meters. During the past year the procedures under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of an engineer consultant for the project, the selection of a contractor for the supply of linear pipes, and the procedure for the award of engineering, supply and construction will start on Monday, 30 April 2018. In a positive scenario in the development of the procedure, the award of the construction is expected to take place in the last quarter of 2018, and the introduction into commercial operation should be carried out in 2020. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Petkova. Do you have a line? No. Thank you. You're free to go, dear Minister. We are moving on to the questions to the Minister of Interior Mr. Valentin Radev. The first question is from the MPs Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov, Plamen Dulchev Nunev, Diana Dimova Savateva and Plamen Tachev Petrov on the activities of renovation and modernization of police buildings and fire safety services for the period from May 2017 to March 2018. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is related to the material base and building fund in the buildings of the police services and departments and the buildings of the Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. Undoubtedly, one of your priorities is the fight against organised and domestic crime. As part of this struggle, in order for it to be effective, policemen and firefighters must have created good working conditions. My specific question to you is: do you keep statistics from the beginning of the government in which you are a minister, how many buildings have been renovated and renewed; are you still continuing the tendency for policemen and firefighters to have better working conditions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Dear Gentlemen Dimitrov, Nunev, Tachev and Mrs. Savateva! The Ministry of Interior participates in various programmes to increase energy efficiency, improve the state of the building fund and ultimately improve the working conditions, as you said to the employees. The maintenance costs of the building fund are reduced and an increase in the life of the buildings is achieved, with the funds being allocated now, and will then return repeatedly and go exactly for the motivation of the most important, as are the employees of the Ministry of Interior for their motivation, salaries including working conditions. Together with the mayors of the municipalities, the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Population Protection will take part in 23 partner projects to introduce measures to increase the energy efficiency of the administration buildings of the Directorate and 15 regional police stations worth more than 10 million. lv. That's for the deadline you're asking. 12 such partner projects are yet to be concluded. Let me just say for this period, because these are projects that are being done, started before, some are now finishing, others are starting now, so I'm not going to go into these frames, but to literally list in populated places where such improvements to the building fund have been made, in general. Blagoevgrad the fire department, I will use this popular term; Zlatograd the building of the firehouse again, of the border police. Popovo the fire department; Krumovgrad the fire department; Pomorie the fire department, police, plus video surveillance that also helps them; Burgas the video surveillance; Pernik the video surveillance; Sevlievo the firehouse is renovated; Devin the fire department also; Sandanski the firehouse and the district management. In many places we do them together on the initiative in general. Because the administrative capacity of the Directorate General for Fire Safety and Protection of the population is better and more experienced, they also help the police. In Sandanski, the fire department and police, jointly both buildings; the Cave of Fire and Police, I personally went to find them; I thank the mayors who help because they are beneficiaries of a large part of the money under the R &amp; R; R &amp; D; Troyan Fire Department; Mezdra Fire Department; Fire Safety Directorate, i.e. the fire department popular in Lukovit, General Toshevo, Balchik, Levski and so on. They're in reconstruction. There are nuances in where only reconstruction is done, in which settlements the renovation of buildings. Currently there is a public procurement in Ruse and a major reconstruction of one of the two buildings is being carried out again at the firehouse. A building from the big firehouses in Dobrich started renovating for $1 million. lv. The construction started in the capital of a new one, which is the name of a firehouse for nearly 2.5 million. I found her, I remember the price. There is a construction in Karnobat of a fire building for approximately the same amount. In Varna is currently working for the second building of the fire department. There are six centers for preparation of employees in Sofia, Vratsa, Gabrovo, Shumen, Pazardzhik and Burgas. I don't happen to mention these centers. They are very important because there are also those more than 212 voluntary units that will help the fire department. They are European criteria, we must have them. Under the operational programmes financed by the European Union, the Directorate-General for Fire Safety has so far managed approximately the numbers, to get an idea of the citizens, and also the employees about what money we are talking about......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv., aimed at the delivery of modern protective equipment. In addition to what you asked me about the building fund for equipment, the preparation of the population and the employees in the training centers. We expect in the spring of 2018. Now, by summer, let's win projects in total for about 50 million. lv. Eighty-six percent of the equipment, let me add this to the General Directorate for Fire Safety and Population Protection. In parallel, we have a brand-new technique, so far there hasn't been one. For example, heavy engineering equipment, boats, special cars for emergency and rescue activities, etc. A work project has been prepared to build a new building of the Regional Service "Fire safety and protection of the population" in the town of Levski, if local citizens are interested. Public procurement, start of construction and realization of the project is forthcoming. But this is coming, I'm just saying, because, as I said, some are starting, others are currently in process, and a third is about to be commissioned from here on, including the design. This is a common vague picture of the time that I have, to tell you what has been done for both police stations and fire safety, with the only focus on improving the work and working conditions of our employees, which will still be better at what they do, in the interests of society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. Do you have a line? Yeah, it was a pretty comprehensive answer. The last question is from the MP Georgiev Mihaylov regarding another case of attack on pet children. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! I am really extremely sorry that in a relatively short linear period I have to pay your attention to such a stressful society problem. More than a month ago, I asked you about the attack in a tragic accident involving the death of a dog fighting breed child. Then I received your answer, and in the course of the discussion between us I thought that there was a consensus that the Ministry of Interior, in whose person the public sees the main reperer for guarding public order, will take some initiative, but sadly next week, on April 10th, there were two very sad incidents, and on the same day again an attack by a raised dog fighting breed in the 121st school, in the district of Abadovica, also suffering two children at the age of 6 and 13 again. Again, the public sees you as a principal and your Ministry as the main holder of public order protection, and this is a blatant violation of public order. In your reply some time ago you pointed out that the legislator had put in other hands the protection of public order in this aspect, but it seems to me that in this matter there is also the desire to see some initiative from the Ministry of Interior, which can change this situation, of course, together with the institutions of municipal councils and with the created very recently then you went to a meeting there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u142	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mihailov! I can repeat several times thanks for trusting the Ministry of the Interior. You yourself said on 2 February I answered such a question of parliamentary control. Then you said: "Yes, there may be a new case tomorrow, and there may be a third and a fourth and a fifth, but I cannot come to answer every question. In particular, I can, if you MPs ask me, but again, as you said, everyone expects from the Ministry of Interior. But the legislator has actually said that this is not our commitment, and I will very briefly recall whose commitment and to whom these issues should be referred. Of course, I'll tell you what our responsibility is. Under the Animal Health Act and the Animal Protection Act, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, as its abbreviation, carries out control of compliance with animal protection and welfare requirements, carries out checks on signals and imposes sanctions in cases of detected infringements. All three things are done by the employees of this agency. The local authorities of the mayors, all of them, exercise control over abandoned animals in the territory of municipalities for identification, registration of dogs, compliance with animal protection requirements in the shelters and territories of the municipality concerned. As an example it can be pointed out that regarding control of the territory of Sofia Municipality according to art. 14, para. 1 of the Ordinance on the acquisition, possession and rearing of domestic animals, the control bodies within the meaning of this regulation are: the mayor of Sofia Municipality, the mayors of the areas of settlements or the officials and the Sofia Inspectorate authorised by them. In accordance with art. 18 of the same regulation, a joint inspection by an inspector of the regional administration and a representative of the non-governmental organisation shall be carried out upon a written signal for an aggressive dog at a known breeding address. We're not even in it. When the written alert for the aggressive dog is at an unknown address, only then does the District Police Department assist in establishing the address. You said "Zopoli". Yeah, that's what we've done since this year. There was no such thing for years. We have a Zoopolitan. They are obliged to go and do this to find the unknown address, and if there is aggression from the owner, then the police intervene. That is to say, she follows the rules of public order. Upon receiving a signal for an aggressive dog, for which there is sufficient evidence that it can carry out an attack, from the structures of the Ministry of Interior the signal shall be forwarded to the competent authorities. That's what we need to do right now. I would like to assure you that we are fully cooperating and all these Zoopolitsa, which I mentioned, are 433 in all districts of the Ministry of Interior, I am referring to Regional Directorates and the SDVR in Sofia, are ready to respond to a total of 29 or 25 branded cars, but only in the cases which have determined the law, and I specifically said them, this is art. 325 of the Penal Code: If a dog exhibits aggression... and so on. We're in right now, but only this way. There's no other way to do this. I am also curious to hear the answers of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency on this case that you are asking about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u144	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Mikhailov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, in fact your answer repeats the answer from the last time and this leaves me with relative frustration. I can say from personal experience, as you are talking about the municipal councils that in the territory of Sofia the municipality is definitely not fulfilling its obligations or may not be able to perform them. I have no particular idea about this. But with regard to compliance with the rules of the Rules of Procedure, which you have been given by the Sofia Municipality for breeding, pet care, none of this is observed on the territory of the city. This is not observed in the park territories of Sofia. We're witnessing every day that dogs walk free without being muzzled, without being... not going into detail. You're a man who knows well, I suppose, the situation. In this sense, I see the need, and I have therefore taken the liberty of asking you this question. We, the Members of the National Assembly, can also assist in a joint meeting of two committees to make some legal initiative in this regard. The Council of Ministers is a major legislative originator so that the protection of public order is not really changed, but the cooperation between the Ministry of Interior and those institutions that you mentioned is at a much more effective level, so that it does not occur periodically to such cases. For the past six months, I've been listening for four times. And on one of those occasions, unfortunately, we lost a child's life. I believe that it is possible for the Ministry of Interior to take an initiative and this way of operating, which the legislator, as you rightly said, has given, to change. Because my deep opinion is that the Bulgarian Food Control Agency hardly has the capacity, it hardly has the opportunity to perform the functions it definitely does not perform. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u146	Thank you, Mr. Mihailov. That's an interesting idea. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u147	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Mihailov! I agree with you. You didn't say the word sense, I'll use it. It really does feel that way. When I walk in the streets and see dogs, my first thought is: doesn't a cop see that? People are used to the police helping everywhere and everything. I did repeat, part of what I told you then, literally, what are the rules of the game. Yes, they are. I asked, of course, preparing for the answer to the question, what can we, the police, do if we should take initiative. It's either ours or yours to change the legislation. However, I do not see why we need to expand our functions. I agree with one thing and I didn't say this, but here I am telling you this now, we have to write a prescription: the Sofia Ordinance is not respected in order to comply with it. Inspectorate to go there, be kind. Also for the local authorities, I agree here. Perhaps there are provisions for this regulation as well. I'm talking about all the cities and settlements. Maybe with the work of the Zoopolds starting on January 23rd, they'll move things and layers, and we'll see how far their powers go. They themselves will say: "Yeah, we're going there, but it was better if we had gone at the beginning of the case to see the Zoopolitsa and not to be there first by this Agency or any other local authorities. This is to be done, to get to the truth. We'll see what international experience is. Maybe we'll add some more to the Ministry of Internal Affairs with some functions, but only in this part I'm talking about the Zoopol police. We're about to see this. It's a good thing you've asked the question twice. Like you, I resent how little children are bitten by dogs! We protect them from the criminals, now we protect them from the dogs... It's perfectly reasonable to refer to the police, but I'm still trying to find the boundaries and see whose responsibility it is. I understand we're doing this together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-04-27.u148	Thank you, dear Minister. That's the end of the question for you. I also thank all my colleagues for relatively strict compliance with our regulation. I will make one announcement: the next meeting will be on 2 May 2018, at 9:00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
