ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'll read you a message. Dear Madame Chairman! On the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we withdraw the bill for amendment and supplement of the Social Security Code, No 854-01-25, with importers Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. We continue with the first point for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR JUSTICE. They will be the first to brief us on the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Before presenting the report, I ask for a procedure for admission for the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Desislava Ahladova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u3	Please, fellow Members, vote on the procedure so done. Vote 163 MPs: 154 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guest to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u4	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on a bill amending and supplementing The Law on the Judiciary No 802-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 April 2018. At its meeting held on 25 April 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Judicial Law, No 802-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 April 2018. The meeting was attended by: by the Ministry of Justice Mrs. Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister; by the Supreme Judicial Council Mr. Boyan Magdalinchev who is responsible for the Supreme Judicial Council; by the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Kalina Serafimova, Prosecutor in the Department of Analysis of the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Ahladova, who pointed out that it provides that the Inspectorate to the Supreme Judicial Council would have access to the magistrate's banking secret when they declared their consent. It is proposed that the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council should be obliged to request the disclosure of a bank secret for persons who have not declared their consent in writing for access to the data necessary to verify their property declarations. The aim is to overcome the conflicting caselaw on the competent court, which may give rise to the disclosure of banking secrecy, and the draft law proposes that this be the regional court at the permanent address of the person. The draft proposed optimization of the rules for the verification of property declarations of magistrates, uniformisation of procedural rules on appeal of the chamber decisions of the relevant College for the appointment of the administrative directors and their alternates in the judiciary and clarification of the Order for the attestation of magistrates. Ms. Ahladova pointed out that the proposed changes accelerate competition procedures and procedures for the selection of administrative leaders. It is envisaged that the deadline for the preparation of a complex assessment of a judge, prosecutor or investigator from the Commission for the attestations and contests of the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council will run from the opening of the procedure for the attestation by a decision of the Commission. A penalty shall be introduced for not submitting the declarations within the time limit, and the provision shall also apply to persons who have lost the status of magistrates but who have remained obliged to submit declarations. The Law aims to align the criteria for the appointment of judicial officers in the bodies of the judiciary and the administrations of the Supreme Judicial Council, the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council and the National Institute of Justice by proposing that only senior and expert positions be appointed. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Krum Zarkov and Hristian Mitev, as well as representatives of the judiciary and executive authorities. Mr. Magdalinchev and Mrs. Seraphimova expressed their support to the Bill, stressing that a large part of the amendments concern issues arising in the practice of implementing the Law and they do not change the philosophy of the Law. Mr. Zarkov raised questions about the possibility of interested parties to be able to challenge the decision of the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council on the taking-up of the administrative leaders, the removal of the extraordinary attestations of magistrates when participating in a competition for promotion or relocation and failure to comply with the deadline by the regional governors to reflect changes in the state ownership acts. In response to Mr. Zarkov's questions Ms. Ahladova noted that the competitions are delayed by more than two years and pointed out that the actual attestations made in the current order are detailed, with no significant difference in the attestations. Ms. Ahladova clarified that regarding the act of the buildings that were at the Ministry of Justice, there is a working group between the Supreme Judicial Council and the Ministry of Justice, which has reached a compromise option for extending the deadline so that the criteria can be clear. Mr. Magdalinchev pointed out that the judiciary manages 264 buildings of state property, for a large part of which there is no complete documentation, and is currently beginning the process of passporting the buildings. He called on the Members of the National Assembly to provide for the allocation of funds to the General Directorate of Security. During the discussion Mr. Danail Kirilov expressed his support to the Bill, noting that he would make a proposal between the first and second votes on the possibility that the President of the Supreme Administrative Court could post a judge from a district court or a judge from a district court with the rank of a judge from a district court. Mr. Magdalenchev noted that he fully supports Mr. Kirilov's proposal, pointing out that the administrative courts are aligned to district courts and, if necessary, there is no way to complete their composition except by the district courts. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 11 votes for the Constitutional Tribunal, No 802-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 April 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Judicial Authority Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee report will be presented. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 802-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 April 2018. At its meeting held on 2 May 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 802-01-14 of 19 April 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov and the Ministry of Justice Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Aldahova, Deputy Minister of Justice. In his exhibition, the importer noted that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on the Judiciary aim to optimize the legal framework in the following main directions: - verification of the property declarations of judges, prosecutors and investigators; - uniformisation of the procedural rules on appeal against the decisions of the College concerned for the appointment of the administrative directors and their alternates; - precision of provisions on attestations; - regulation of the legal level of the appointment requirements, as well as of the conditions for the incompatibility of the judicial officer. The bill contains proposals on the status of judicial officers. The establishment of legislation at the legal level will align the criteria for the appointment of judicial officers and will lead to an increase in the requirements for those who wish to be appointed as a judicial officer, as well as for those holding the position of a staff member. In this sense, it is proposed that only higher-level persons should be appointed to management and expert posts. The proposed provisions will strengthen the independence of the judicial officer in the performance of his duties in the context of the independent judiciary. With the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the subsequent amendments to the Law on the Judiciary in Chapter 20th, Section IV According to Ordinance No 4 of 2008 on the rules and regulations for safety and security in the design, construction, reconstruction, modernization and exploitation of the premises of the judiciary (SG. 8 from 2008) The Security Directorate General of the Ministry of Justice shall guard both the judicial buildings and the buildings of the Ministry of Justice. In view of the transition of the power to manage the property of the judiciary to the plenary of the Supreme Judicial Council, it is necessary to explicitly regulate the existing legal and factual functional competence of the Directorate General for Security of the Buildings of the Ministry of Justice, intended for the Central Administration, as well as the building of the Office of the Central Government. It should be noted that since the Security Directorate General and currently carrying out the security of these buildings pursuant to Decree No 4 of 2008, there is no extension of the security of buildings and the extension of the functions of the Directorate, the proposed legislative amendments will therefore not lead to the need for additional funds and human resources under the budget of the Ministry of Justice. The Commission has received an opinion from the Ministry of Interior supporting, in principle, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judicial Authority and proposing the clarification of certain texts. On the basis of the vote taken, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee with 9 votes for the Constitutional Tribunal, No 802-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 April 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Law on the Judiciary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u7	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Dear Members of Parliament, I am opening the debate on the bill presented to us. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will not support the proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Judiciary, as we have done in the relevant parliamentary committees, and we have abstained. This is because the proposed amendments and additions to the Law, we recognize that they are designed to optimize the legal framework in several directions. Much of the proposals solve issues arising in the practice of implementing the Law, which is why they do not change its philosophy, both purpose and scope. First, it concerns the verification of the property declarations of judges, prosecutors and investigators. In cases where judges, prosecutors and investigators declare consent, the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council may have access to the facts and circumstances constituting a bank secret in order to avoid the procedure on the request of authorisation by the relevant regional court. In this way, the Supreme Judicial Council will also be obliged to request disclosure of banking secrecy only for persons who have not declared their consent in writing for access to the data necessary to verify the property declarations, part of which is banking secrecy. I would like to raise the question whether this is necessary and whether the functions of the district judge are seized, who must examine the application fairly and impartially and assess whether there are grounds for doing so. Second, with the proposed amendments and additions to art. 408a of the Law on the Judiciary provides for a penalty for persons who have lost the status of judges, prosecutors or investigators, but have remained obliged to submit declarations. Unification of the procedural rules on appeal against the decisions of the Board of Directors and their alternates, synchronization of the procedural rules on appeal of the Board of Directors and their alternates will lead to clarity in the arrangements, as well as to procedural savings in order to stabilise the chamber decisions more quickly and comply with the presumption of legality of the acts rendered by the Supreme Judicial Council. Third, the provisions on attestations are set out and provided for to be refined. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: No. 209, para. 1 The deadline for the preparation of a comprehensive assessment of a judge, prosecutor or investigator from the Commission for the attestations and contests to run from the opening of the procedure with a decision of the Commission for the attestations and contests, not as foreseen at the moment, from the receipt of the proposal under art. 203, para. 1 of the Law on the Judiciary, as the one-month period for the preparation of a complex assessment in the current version expires before the actual activity of the attestation has begun. It is also proposed to waive the exceptional attestation in the hypothesis of § 206. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, which leads to undue delays in competition procedures and procedures for the election of administrative leaders. This is extremely important because the previous version creates serious problems for those who participate in competitions when the new order on the attestation is applied for part of them, which requires the attestation of all participants in the competition procedure. The regulation of the legal level of the appointment requirements, as well as the conditions for the incompatibility of the judicial officers, the establishment of a legal framework with regard to the judicial officers will align the criteria for the appointment of judicial officers and will lead to an increase in the requirements for those who wish to be appointed as a judicial officer, as well as for those who hold the office of Judge. However, the following question also needs to be answered: will not the criteria that candidates as an administrative manager be reduced in this way, even more so, will there be some discrimination, i.e. different candidates being disadvantaged in some way or in some way? The proposed provisions should strengthen the independence of the judicial officer in the performance of his duties in the context of the independent judiciary and not put him in any kind of dependence. There are other solutions, for example, not removing this procedure, but increasing the capacity of the Test Commission, and this is worth thinking about. With the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the subsequent amendments to the Law on the Judiciary in 2016 in Chapter Twenty, Section IV............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... It is therefore necessary to explicitly regulate the existing legal, factual and functional competence of the Directorate-General for Security of the Buildings of the Ministry of Justice, intended for the Central Administration, as well as the buildings of the Agency for the Central Governance. There could also be a question of why so many years this has not been done with the adoption of the relevant Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary? Given the following parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will abstain and will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u9	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I just want to ask the conversations really a little quieter, there's really a very big noise background, it's very high. Let us give the speaker a chance to present these to him calmly, not to disturb him with noise. Thank you. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I would like to state our support for the bill we are discussing at this time. This bill was submitted by the Council of Ministers after a lengthy and precise work of the working group of the Ministry of Justice, in which representatives of the Supreme Courts and the Prosecutor's Office and representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council took part. In the discussions in the Committee on Legal Affairs in addition to the presentation of the bill by Mrs. Ahladova, Deputy Minister of Justice, the bill was actively supported by Mr. Magdalenchev, representing the Supreme Judicial Council. The orator before me detailed the relevant proposals for amendments to the Law on the Judiciary. You can see that their origins, their nature, are among the masters. The aim is to improve the application of the Law and to eliminate these discrepancies or uncertainties or problems which have occurred so far. In practice, such radical changes are not envisaged to rearrange the status of magistrates, their independence or to aggravate the achievements associated with the self-government of magistrates. For this reason, we believe that the bill should be supported. In the debate, which was detailed, there were specific questions on which I would say that the lawyers from the Committee on Legal Affairs expressed our views accordingly. I will not go into detail on the various topics and problems, but I think that we should support the legislative initiative of the Council of Ministers as a legislative body so as to support the work of the judiciary and the judiciary. Rules on the extension of the time limit for the admission and activation of buildings benefiting from the judicial system shall be laid down. These are the judicial buildings, as well as their security, for which reason we have also listened to the Commission's internal affairs and security report. I support to you the statement that I have made in the Committee on Legal Affairs that, between first and second readings, I will make a proposal to align the status of administrative judges with the general judges as regards the possibility that the President of the Supreme Administrative Court should post judges from both district and district courts. We believe that this is useful for both solving employment and the division of cases within the administrative justice system and for the equalisation of administrative judicial proceedings in the common civil and criminal proceedings. I'm making an appeal and an invitation to you to support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u11	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? I won't. We continue with further comments. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Judiciary, No 802-01-14, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 139 MPs: 96, against 2, abstention 41. The offer is accepted. [[The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov enters the hall.]] Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u12	Good afternoon, Minister. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: HEARING THE MINISTER OF REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT AND THE BLAGOSTERY 113 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION WITH REGARD TO PRIORITY PATIENT PROJECTS. Come in for the procedure, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In view of the importance of the topic under discussion and that the issue concerns, especially at the beginning of the summer season, all Bulgarian citizens, I am doing a procedure under art. 51, para. 2 for the direct broadcasting of the debates on the relevant point. [[(Laughter and shouts from "BSP for Bulgaria" (Laughter and shouts from "BSP for Bulgaria")]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u14	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Colleagues, I am putting to the vote the procedure done by the MP Hristo Gazhev. They voted 124 MPs: 106, against 2, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I give the floor to the proposer to make a presentation within 5 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u15	Madam President, honourable Members! Two are the reasons why we asked with colleagues today's hearing of Minister Nankov. The first reason and, of course, it is much more important is the seriousness and importance of the construction of the relevant important projects of road infrastructure sites that have started throughout the country, and in the last 10 years have been realized by the last governments of Boyko Borisov. It is important because, you see, until recently, if the mantra, that roads, asphalt are not being eaten, then in recent years it has clearly shown that without basic infrastructure in which Bulgaria has definitely fallen behind in the last decades, it is important in any case for the economy of the country. When we talk about growth in the economy of an average of 4% in recent years, most expectations from both people and society and politicians are not only to keep this pace of economic growth, but if it can be improved and these economic indicators to be much better than they are now. Most questions of colleagues in parliamentary control and in blitzcontrol, when the minister is present at these blitzcontrols, most of the MPs from different regions, always ask questions about this in their region which road, when it will be built, what stage is its implementation. Accordingly, each of us understands, albeit with political biases, which there is that without this thing the economy and the state cannot go forward. That's why we asked for the hearing, and that's the most important reason. The second reason, of course, is that we cannot stand by the opposition leader's statements on May 1st, literally a few days ago, in which she actually blames for poor construction, for poor road-making, that they were a hole to a hole that is not true. The other thing that certainly couldn't help but annoy us in recent weeks is the attempt of the president to attack the government precisely in the construction part of infrastructure sites and his desire is dictated by the idea of turning on the spotlight and, of course, looking in the mirror, sees Mrs. Nino and she also comes out and repeats his words. Again, this is not the most important reason, it was the first, but in this regard I would very much like to appeal to Mr. Nankov. Besides that it will introduce us, I hope, in detail with all the road projects that are currently ahead and at what stage their development is, it will certainly tell us what their vision is. Because such accusations were also heard: you see that it was being built, it was a construction site, but there was no vision. I would very much like Minister Nankov to make a brief statement about the vision, besides the purely objective and formal description of what stage these projects are in order to understand who is speaking and what is really behind his words. Because my opposition colleagues cannot be reminded of this, as one of their accusations was that quality is not being built. Yes, we cannot say that it is not being built quality during the BSP administration, for the simple reason that it is not being built. It's very easy, because we can't charge them with such a thing. Next, as they have cried out on this topic, to remind them of just a few very elementary facts that are indicative of their governance, although from elections to elections they are reincarnated, the new leadership of BSP is chosen, suddenly as if nothing had been back. I agree that most of you fellow Members have not participated in these governments, when also the highway was absolutely a failed project, the highway of Trakia. At the time of the three coalitions, at the moment a Portuguese company would, with an apology, suck on the taxpayer's money and we should pay instead of the way we walk with the wine sticker for a whole year. Now we'd be paying for Trakiya when we go to the sea. They were going to build another project, not even during your management. So no matter how much you reincarnate at any choice, you are ultimately responsible. You're a political party, you want to have a 100-year history, it's nice to carry your liabilities and not forget those things. I'm done with this, Mr. Nankov, and I really want you to tell me what the vision is, and why are these projects so important to the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. For a ten-minute speech there is the word Minister Nikolay Nankov, and then each of the parliamentary groups is entitled to two questions. You have no limit for answers. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u17	Mr. Vice-President of the National Assembly! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, thank you for your invitation. [[Noise and lines.]] Of course, and that you defined the topic as particularly significant and for the attitude expressed by it towards the policy, which the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the entire government of Prime Minister Borisov leads...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u18	Mr. Secretary, just a minute. Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall and remain silent.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u19	I will give you information about the progress of the major infrastructure projects in the road sector in the last year and not just about our vision, but about the future of the transport infrastructure, about the overall vision in response to the question which the people representative Alexander Nenkov asked. I can share that it is really measurable through the gross domestic product, which in 2017 marked all of us well know, record growth by absolute measurers, we have about 100 billion. BGN, and we know that one of the bikes of gross domestic product is precisely the construction sector. According to money data, even 2017 compared to 2016 we are growing more than 15% and measurable for the quarter of 2018 compared to the quarter of 2017. The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. I am starting with the specifics of our priority road projects, as was also the subject of the current hearing for the period of 5 May last year, that is, approximately one year's time period. So far, the Road Infrastructure Agency, respectively the government, has launched road projects for approximately 1 billion. And 400 million. lv. Apart from that, we have concluded contracts for construction and installation activities for almost 500 million. lv. Indeed, Bulgaria, as recently spoken in public space, looks like an open construction site on which highways are being built, renovated first-class, second-class, third-class, municipal roads, bridge facilities, tunnels and, of course, other facilities of technical infrastructure. I dare say that all public contracts carried out by the MRB and, in particular, by the Road Infrastructure Agency, as a continuant of the road sites are public, transparent and in full compliance with the regulations and good practices ensuring the competitive basis of the market. We are aware that they are monitored by both the business and the entire Bulgarian public, of course, and by the political community, which is confirmed by the large number of participants in the procedures. A better regulator than the business of these processes tell him health! As an example, I would point out the public procurement for a tunnel from the highway of Struma, the new procedure, as the old one was terminated, we know for what reasons we received 28 offers. Be assured that no one in the big business would lose their strength, energy, resource, time and financial resources, prepare offers and participate in heavy tender documentation, make big expenses, as I mentioned, if they were previously set up and he had no chance of winning them. The large number of candidates is proof that they work in the light, under the spotlight, as well as, of course, that the criteria for selection of participants are not discriminatory and restrictive. The fact that the number of appeals is extremely low in the last year is also confirmed by my reasoning, which proves again that the Commission's procedures and work are without comments. I would like to refer briefly to some of the government's most important priority road projects. I'll start with the Hemus Highway. Since the first day of the government of the cabinet Borisov 3, on my first day as Minister, we have declared that Not because I am a construction minister from Northern Bulgaria "the finance minister and the transport minister are from there, on the contrary, because the highway is important for Northern Bulgaria to reduce the disparity and disparity in the development between Northern and Southern Bulgaria. Of course, unlike before, things are not just in words today, but with concrete actions, they are in the light and for the benefit of all Bulgarian citizens. We have recently made a first hole, that is to say we have launched the section from 9 km and 300 m from Yablanitsa to the road hub. "Boaza" is the branch for Teteven, and within two months the real construction works will be started within another 16 km and 500 m from the eastern direction of the highway from the road hub of Belokopitovo to the road hub of Buhovtsi. That is to say, the actual 25 km will be under construction within these two months. In a year and a half, a year and six, seven months, we'll be done with the actual construction of these sections. Apart from that, another 52 km from the fork to Teteven Road Node "Boaza" to the fork between Lovech and Pleven, within this year will be traded. They're currently being designed, which means a performer will be selected. Why did we redesign those 50 miles? Because by cutting down some of the heavy infrastructure facilities, tunnels, bridge ones that are difficult to operate and maintain, we subsequently reduced the highway price by 350 million. lv. 350 million. lv. is the reduction in the price of this segment of 52 km. The detailed plot plan for the remaining 85 km from the stretch of Lovech is to be developed by Pleven to the future highway of Ruse, Veliko Tarnovo, north of Veliko Tarnovo, for which we will start a procedure again this year. It will be an engineering for design and construction, i.e. by the end of the year the commitment that we have made, following..Lennert and................................................................................ With a very good organization, it is very realistic at the end of 2024 to have a fully completed highway. As we are on the topic "Hemus" to inform you that last year were completed the repair and reconstruction activities of the tunnels in the direction of Varna of the tunnels "Vitynia" and "Echemishka" tunnels, which have not been repaired for more than 35 years, i.e. since they were built, by the way, during which I am convinced, it is a pleasure for all Bulgarian citizens today to travel. This year we will start with the repair activities of the two tunnels - the tunnels in the direction of Sofia of Echemishka and of Vitynya, so that really two of the four tunnels of the motorway of Hemus, have absolutely modern requirements and, of course, lighting techniques, air conditioning and all others, according to the modern European norms. This year we will finish the 24 km from Kresna to Sandanski with almost 8 months in advance, but not at the expense of quality we will finish these 24 km. Apart from that, from Blagoevgrad to Zheleznitsa, almost 7 km, the construction works are going extremely well. Of course, we have interrupted them in the part of the open archaeological field that coincides with the Roman town of Scaptopara of the imperial age in the land of the village of Pokrovnik, so there we will wait for the pronouncing of the experts. I'm sure we'll respect, as always, not just ecology, but archeology. We will not put in a conflict situation the rapid construction of highways precisely with these two main aspects of our public development: the development of cultural and historical heritage and the environmental one. The toughest section 3.2 Simitli "Kresna" from Struma Motorway this year will start with the tender procedure if the administrative court also ruled in our favour on the basis of the complaint received, which has currently stopped the implementation. However, we act, we proceed with the plots, so that's where we're going on schedule. Our goal is to start the real construction in May 2019. We have too much time. The value of the most expensive section of our highway due to the heavy terrain, the complex because of the uploading of part of the track above the existing Kresna Gorge, Kresna Gorge will cost about 800 million. lv. The government has, of course, fulfilled its commitment to the management program to begin real steps towards building the road between Vidin and Botevgrad. The tender has already started in the toughest section, precisely in the section from Botevgrad to Mezdra, 33 km. We expect, after the submission of the bids, rapid ranking, the Commission's pronouncement and to start with real activities. It is no longer the chimera tunnel under Petrohan, we have listened to the voice and the protesters, of course, we have also taken into account all the objective prerequisites. As early as May this year, the Agency will launch the pre-project research on the construction of the tunnel under Petrohan. We are also actively working on Ruse Motorway, which again because of a complaint based on the environmental procedure has been stopped, but this does not prevent us from moving the plots. After the court's ruling, if it is in favour of the Road Infrastructure Agency, we will, of course, give a really serious speed of execution. Kalotina "Sofia," we have launched a tender procedure again, as well as with the South Rainbow on the Crossroads, so that the fast connection from Western Central Europe to the Middle East can take place precisely in this direction. I'm done with two sentences. I just have to point out that we're not just building highways, rehabilitating roads, filling holes on non-repaired 30 years of roads. We do work and correct the mistakes of politicians who are now claiming to be ruling. This will take us not only this, but the next, and subsequent mandates, so we are introducing the system to create sustainability of funding in the road sector. [[Applause from GERB.]] I will end this and remain available for all your questions. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u20	Thank you, dear Minister. Let's start with the questions. First will be the MPs from the parliamentary group of GERB. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva, for the first question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u21	Dear Minister, Struma Motorway connects the highway by way of a road hub at Pernik with the Tower's Border Control Point and thus after its completion is provided an automatic connection from the capital to the border with Greece. The President said that Bulgaria currently resembles a construction site where something is being built, but we do not know exactly what, because it is dark. I want to assure you that all traveling from Sofia in the direction of the Tower see every day what is being built. I would like to remind you that at the beginning of 2009, Struma Motorway was indeed in the dark. It was not on the agenda and soon would not have started its construction if in 2009 Prime Minister Borisov's first government did not start its construction. Each one of these travelers has an interest in completing it as quickly as possible. Lot 3.1 of the highway "Struma" starts from Blagoevgrad and ends at the village of Krupnik, including a tunnel "Zeleznitsa." I'm glad you mentioned the archaeological excavations that are near the village of Pokrovnik because they give rise to a very high public interest. I am convinced that it is the experts who will give the right opinion on how to react there. During the caretaker government in 2017, the public procurement for a tunnel was stopped by the Road Agency due to missing documents from the offers of the participants in it. Arrests followed and documents were found at the home of one of the Commissioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u22	The question, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u23	As far as I have information, public works contracts and supervision for the implementation of the site are currently being announced and procedures are under way. In this regard, my question is: when is the real implementation of the site scheduled to begin, and will there be a delay in the construction of the entire highway? Is sanctions expected to be imposed in connection with the delay in construction? Therefore, Dear Minister, please bring light into the tunnel. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u24	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mrs. Saveklieva, I have prepared a great deal of information for Struma, but I will concentrate and focus on the question you have asked. Yes, it is a fact, speaking of procedures of dark and lack of spotlights, of light, perhaps some institutions, representatives of such state institutions in the country have referred to precisely this procedure, because tens of years, 10 years and more in the country we have not witnessed, we have not had the opportunity to witness such a practice, as the minister of the service quoted you at that time Spas Popnikol. Then documents disappeared, a public procurement was terminated and the specialized bodies were still producing on the subject. I am convinced that we are not, and we will not lose documents, we will not witness such practices. Regarding the delay in the procedure, it is a fact that the initial implementation period was 1400 days. In order to catch up with this delay, I repeat, after this, a criminal act.................................................................................................. these are not my words,................................................................................................................................................. We won't have a problem with the performance. We are currently in a public procurement procedure, in public law, we have even invited the Transparency International, we have a contract with them, they monitor at every stage of the contract not only its legality, its transparency, the public knowledge. Not only that, we divided the site into three sub-stages to enable more performers to participate in it, the tunnel as one separate stage; the facilities, the bridge and the road part before the tunnel and the bridge facilities and the road part after the tunnel, again at the same value, by the way reduced. I am convinced that with the conclusion of the public procurement within the next two to three months, if we do not have an appeal to the tender procedure, rather to the ranking of the candidates, we will start building this very important section of the whole motorway, for which our deadline for completion is 2023. We will finalise the section in the Kresna Gorge Lot 3.2 for a number of reasons the greatest complexity of its construction and as a significant reason.. appeals under the order of environmental legislation, which after changes in the Law on Environmental Protection, voted by this National Assembly, have become unified, as we know, and this has accelerated the implementation of such national infrastructure sites by at least six months to a year. About the excavations you mentioned, I, too, in the expo of the ancient Roman settlement Scaptopara in the village of Pokrovnik, Blagoevgrad municipality. Yes, we have always provided not only funding for these archaeological excavations, as well as in this case, but for us they have been leading in the overall concept of building linear infrastructure sites, both ecology and, of course, cultural and historical heritage, history and archaeology. We're not gonna let you, be sure of yota, I'm convinced, despite the public speculation that the excavation is currently underway. The diggers aren't working. Yesterday I read that they started digging in six days. Nothing like that, they're being canned right now. One hundred and fifty workers are on the site, including 31 archaeologists, with a leader, recognized archaeologist at national level, architect Zdravko Dimitrov. Almost, even slightly over two million are currently provided, as needed on the basis of the concluded framework agreement with the Institute of Archaeology with a museum, with Professor Vagalinski as head. We will provide, on the basis of this agreement, a financial resource to protect truly unique archaeology, the unique history lying on our land. Like Professor Nikolay Ovcharov mentioned, it is not bad to build more highways, more roads so that we can discover, expose, preserve and preserve precisely this unique story lying on our land. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u26	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Applause from GERB.]] First question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, guys. Mr. Bojankov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u27	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is related to the Ruse Motorway, Veliko Tarnovo, undoubtedly one of the most important issues for Veliko Tarnovo district. So far, in relation to this important forward-generation infrastructure project, only environmental-oriented EIA discussions have been held. This would be acceptable if there were no arguments against and concern on the part of local and business. Such are in terms of the route itself, which according to the local business is too far over 30 km, which, Minister, according to the locals extended the road to Ruse by 30 km. The biggest employers almost without exception gathered in Gorna Oryahovitsa and requested a meeting with you, a meeting you owe them and should hold. [[National Representative Pavel Shopov spoke with Minister Nikolay Nankov. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u28	Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u29	Dear colleagues, we have tried, and locals, and in my face, I have come to a position to pray to your mayors, to contact you colleagues from GERB in every way I have put matters of control, publications in the media to draw your attention and to make this so important and desirable for local meetings. However, none of these were carried out. We have received from you only publications and answers in the media that say: It is not true, the highway does not extend the distance to Ruse. From the answers to parliamentary control, Mr. Minister, it becomes clear that the distance from Gorna Oryahovitsa is the answer you have prepared is 30 km. The road to Ruse is 101 km at the moment, along the highway 133 km. This is an extension of 30%. It is on this basis that the local industry claims that it will not use the highway and it will only exercise transit functions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u30	The question, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u31	The questions to you in this regard, stressing that in addition to extending the second major problem, relationships are. At the moment all heavy traffic, colleagues who are from Sofia and the big cities, imagine it, the industrial center is connected to the highway through a bridge built 1800 with a road sail. In this regard, although we sought it many times, the Minister replied only to the media: The State is committed to making a rapid connection to the industrial center. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] My questions are: do you make this commitment, that is, do you confirm it from the National Assembly's stand that you will build this speedy relationship that the industrial center deserves? Do you commit to having such a late meeting, sought from last year with local businesses and people? And the latter is a question and a request: please, Mr. Minister, do not divide the people, because you have publicly allowed yourself through the media to oppose the people of Svishtov and Veliko Tarnovo, Veliko Tarnovo and Botevgrad, saying: "If they are dissatisfied and complain, we will redirect the money.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u32	Mr. Bojankov, I gave you one minute too much. Thank you. A whole minute longer. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u33	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bojankov, I'm really surprised to begin with the answer to my question. Surprisingly, the fact that you felt uneasy about me in a personal capacity that I refused to meet you. As far as I know, the Chairman of the Road Infrastructure Agency has also met with you in phone calls. We must not forget, by the way, you are commenting on the public discussion, on the contrary, was conducted in accordance with the environmental legislation, as this is also the procedure. The complaints at the moment do not in any way concern environmental standards, environmental problems of the inhabitants of the village of Polykraishte and Hotnitsa, but concern some of the problems that you describe. In the village of Polykraishte that they pass away from the village.......................................................................................... So one of the residents wants to get close, the other far away. Apart from that, we should not forget that we had a public discussion in Veliko Tarnovo exactly a year ago and on the topic with [[Applause from GERB]] , all MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. It was open to the entire local public, local business, local government, all interested mayors of municipalities, municipal councils, mayors of town halls, so your argument is not correct. Let's really talk about facts! By the way, on May 15th, I think it is Monday, there is a new similar discussion on the topic of "Hemus" and "Ruse Motorway," Veliko Tarnovo, in Veliko Tarnovo again on this topic. It is a district town, so we do it in Veliko Tarnovo and not in Gorna Oryahovitsa. Nothing wrong with Gorna Oryahovitsa. Never in answer to questions, nor in the media did I say it wouldn't increase. I said it wouldn't increase by 30 kilometers. Yes, it is close to 30 km away, which extends the segment from Gorna Oryahovitsa to Ruse, but is it not only the quickest and shortest way to build the highway? It's the fastest, by the way, but it's not the shortest. The motorway is built to satisfy transnational, supranational, not just intercommunal connections and transport interests. Of course, the commitment we have to fully rehabilitate the existing first-class route, we've been doing it since last year. You know the Belenski Bair from Byala in the direction of Ruse. This year, next to Ruse, we will rehabilitate him to have an adequate alternative to a future highway. I took it from this tribune in response to another MP, not specifically to you. Perhaps you didn't ask me from this tribune, and I am indeed a very honored guest in parliamentary control. Yeah, we confirm that, we've always said that. The colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency started with the design of the road link, of course, with the speed section of the highway route in the direction of the future industrial area, which will be built at Gorna Oryahovitsa Airport, a commitment that will actually be implemented by us and is part of the procedure that is currently being seen in a judicial phase: an appeal to the environmental impact assessment. Regarding Ruse, Veliko Tarnovo and whether it will improve the connectivity between Ruse and the municipalities south of them, including Veliko Tarnovo and Gorna Oryahovitsa, I cannot agree with your arguments. On the contrary, it will help extremely much not just the road safety issue, as this is one of the toughest road sections in terms of road mortality, road safety, it will support extremely much both local and regional business, and all Bulgarian citizens who will pass in its direction. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u34	Thank you, dear Minister. A question on behalf of the parliamentary group "United Patriarchs." Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! As shown by the map behind my back, the main priority of the government is effective maintenance, modernisation and development of transport infrastructure. What, by investing the state and society, are actually putting into these roads, and of course it has its price and its purpose, will have a large impact on the country's economy's effective development, on the integration of the regions and on the reduction of regional differences. I cannot stress here with satisfaction that this is the first government to address Northern Bulgaria after public investments were in the North 1:5, 1:6 ratio over the years. Since in Northern Bulgaria the population in certain regions was literally forced to flee to seek livelihood, we now see that the main projects of Northern Bulgaria are on the map and they inspire hope for development. I cannot ignore the hypocrisy of some political forces. Their local influence activists, a local company in a town, are at the heart of complaints that are really slowing down the construction of the Ruse highway. This delay will be paid at the cost of human lives, because people die there every week and it is nice when such political games are made, to be clear what the price is and who pays it. By putting the price question, I would like to ask a question on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United People for the price of our construction, of the motorways, of the serious infrastructure projects, because in the public domain it is quite clever and manipulative that the Bulgarians are riding on some of the most expensive roads in Europe. Minister, I would like your comment on the topic and data on the question: how expensive are the Bulgarian roads?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u36	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. For a response, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mr. Nikolay Nankov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u37	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, yes, the past weeks and days are fiercely speculated on the topic that in Bulgaria we are building, and we are riding on the most expensive roads in Europe. Even yesterday I listened in a morning block unconfirmed with facts, manipulative, speculative statements. I will do a little retrospect in response to your question how the price of highways in Bulgaria was moving. In addition, I have prepared a reference for you, and I will make it public, from Eurostat data, from the European Commission on public data on the construction of highways in Member States of the European Union and from those outside, I hope, future members of the Western Balkans. I will make a comparison with prices in Bulgaria per linear kilometer, for example. From this high tribune I declare, it is not a pride for us as politics, but it is a rebuttal of speculations that go in the media and public space: Bulgaria is building the cheapest highways throughout Europe, not throughout the European Union. [[Reply.]] To a colleague who says that it is not true, I will personally provide the list with the specific official information and not with speculative, manipulative statements. The price per kilometer averaged for all highways built in Bulgaria after 2000. To this day, as we were recently trading the last segment of which I mentioned in my expo a moment ago, in my response in the ten minutes, the highway of the city of Yablanitsa, a road hub of Bozaza, there the price is just over 3 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. Fifty thousand. Euros. The average price in Bulgaria is 3 million 100 thousand. Euros.; in Serbia, 5 million. Five hundred thousand. EUR; in Romania, 6 million 43,000. EUR per km; Greece Twenty-eight thousand. EUR per km; Slovakia Euros per km. In principle, we should not be poor and compare ourselves to being very great and building cheaply. This should never be at the expense of quality. I'm giving you neighbors, even in Macedonia, the average cost of a linear kilometer on a highway is 5 million. Five hundred thousand. EUR per km at 3 million $100,000. Euros in Bulgaria. Much more interesting is the following fact, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, the most expensive highway awarded in 2006, it is not for a reason that I say when it is the highway of Lyulin. The price per linear kilometer is 8 million. $100,000. Euros. [[Applause from GERB.]] By the way, the Trakia Motorway, today a report on successful projects and overall policy and its implementation and contribution to the transport infrastructure in the European Union is being discussed in the European Parliament. The only example as a specific site from all countries that we benefit from the solidarity of our European partners, and from the development of cohesion policy, as a positive, good example, is pointed out the I suppose today will be voted by fellow MEPs on this report. Commenting on prices, for example, on the highway, which I mentioned at a little over 1 million. Six hundred thousand. EUR per km, [[speaking indistinctly]] Yes, the new sections are other sections, built in 2005, 1991 they are not a highway and we are currently repairing them because they are built in 2005 and do not look like a highway. You're right! You're damn right! I mentioned 2006, I don't remember who the minister was, you'll remind me of 8 million. $100,000. EUR, and we're still fixing landslides that weren't fortified and planned to strengthen this price at the highway. At $3 million. EUR average price per km. [[Applause from GERB.]] On this topic, figures against speculation. I'll leave the file to my colleague Veselinov, they're public, and we'll announce to stop with such small, really small rations. When the numbers speak, we must be silent too. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u38	Thank you, dear Minister. The word has the MPs from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u39	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, you are really very sweet-talking and you manage to get out of a situation, but I have a feeling that these questions from the ruling coalition that you are asked are pre-set by you because you know their answer and you are doing so perfectly so far. I will refer to a question that affects the entire public to answer me with a little concrete, so that we are aware of what we are doing, with data that are important of national importance. We know the Republican Road Network is about 20,000. km in Bulgaria, more precisely 19,900 km, as well as the municipal is about 20 thousand. km. We also know because you like to talk with data that out of that 20,000. km Republican Road Network 7 thousand. km are in bad shape, and the municipal road network of 20,000. About 14,000 miles. km are in poor condition as road infrastructure. By regulation we also know that according to the technical requirements of each 8 to 12 years of age the different categories of roads must be restored, rehabilitated, reconstructed to be in good condition. So they have to be further asphalted with a minimum of one layer, say 4 cm of asphalt. That's by regulation, I'm not making it up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u40	The question, Mr. Ali, ask yourself the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u41	My question to you is: given that at the moment less than a thousand kilometers are being rehabilitated this year, would you tell me how many kilometers of the Republican road network the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works has planned to reconstruct and rehabilitate in the coming years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u42	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u43	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I can't agree to just one finding. I'm not cute and I don't speak convincingly. I even have a speech defect, to my great regret, but I'm trying to speak at least really, with numbers and data. By the way, I'm prepared for your question, not just for my colleagues in the ruling coalition. [[Laughter and applause]] , and I will answer really specifically and the very important question for our entire community that you have asked. Since we are talking about priorities, we have drawn them on the map. Most of them are a continuation of the TNT network, the Trans-European Transport Corridors, but our fellow citizens from the middle and smaller settlements and in your reception days, and in my weekly meetings with them, do not always ask us about highways and speed roads, they ask us about local roads, third-class municipal ones, second-class, third-class ones, which are even slightly over 7,000. According to some of our analysis, even 8,000. It's a mile out of 22,000. 500 km of Republican roads are in really bad shape. The fact is that this problem, if I may, will go back in time, not from today and yesterday. This problem has more than a 30-year statute of limitations for ours, to yours, unfortunately for our entire society. In a public sector, when the state currently has a.. here there are many better experts, budgeters and financiers than I am, of course, I do not claim to be such a.... this small redeployment function, which we currently have..... about 35% of GDP. In some Scandinavian and Western European countries, the rate is 50 " 55%." We could hardly talk about effective and quality public policies with targeted state resources. We need to rely more on the quality of the service and on the benefits generated on this quality of the service. In this regard, many times from this high tribune, and also in committees and other public formats, it has been about the future tol system as a fair model that will replace the heavy goods vehicle wine system and generate revenue on a fair model that exploits and loads more Republican roads to pay more. The Bulgarian carrier in Serbia pays 60 euros for 400 km and the one-day wine in Bulgaria is 13 euros. With the resource generated, we will allocate an insufficient resource, but about 50 million. lv. for the municipal roads. Two thirds of them are in a bad, tragic state. If this policy is maintained, this is still a debate between the member states, because the multiannual fiscal framework of the European Union is on the agenda. If we assume that we will preserve the European funds, in this programming period over 300 km can pass through the framework of the R &amp; D countries in growth. The second-class and third-class roads, mainly in Northern Bulgaria, are rehabilitated. Assuming that we will have 2.5 times more revenue in the budget under the Tol system, and assuming that half of them will be spent on the construction of new highways and roads, about half of them, for example 500 million, I answer with figures on your question, although we do not know what else the revenues will be, I hope about 1. 1.2 billion. lv. We will be spending on rehabilitation of second-class, third-class and fourth-class roads. We see that we are currently spending about 200 million, even less than 150 million, then we will be able to rehabilitate three times more Republican roads. We're not reaching 1,000 kilometers on an annual basis right now. We're currently rehabilitating about 600 miles in the best years. If the finance minister re-executes the budget and is favorable to the Regional Authority, if he grants resources under the Council of Ministers................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I have always argued from this tribune in response to parliamentary questions that within six years of the introduction of the tol fee we will rehabilitate not us, but those who will rule after us, and after them will rehabilitate the 8,000. km of roads that are in a very difficult state but will maintain effective and qualitatively rehabilitated and well reconstructed current roads. Good and adequate support again costs financial resources. This is a good policy in terms of economic and financial logic. Prevention always saves public resources from ineffective government policies. We're talking more than 30 years. That 8,000. km are roads that haven't been rehabilitated for more than 30 years. There are also roads not rehabilitated on 40 years of third-class Republican roads. This is due to the systemic problem of underfinancing of the sector. Although quite unpopular as a solution, we are looking for a systematic approach through the introduction of the system, which may be at the highest technological level in Europe. We will last to introduce it, but we will be chiefs in terms of digital, digital and innovative technologies. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u44	Thank you, dear Minister. Will there be a question from the Parliamentary Group? Here you go, Mr. Netsov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u45	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! My question has been repeatedly asked and answered repeatedly by Mr. Nankov. A moment ago, he answered a lot of that question, but I wish I could ask him a specific question. Dear Minister, Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union where cars carry the main burden of maintaining the road network. For last year, two thirds of the revenue from the wineries came from the cars and from the cars. This is precisely the purpose of the Tol system.. to reverse the ratio and to charge much more trucks until the price of the cars changes. The additional revenue after the launch of the system is intended to cover the growing needs of the state for road repair and maintenance. In this regard, my question to you is: at what stage is the process of introducing the system and what is to be done to put it into service? You have answered many of these questions, but if you can tell what the deadline is, because it is important for both Bulgarian citizens and drivers of motor vehicles and for the state of the road infrastructure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Netsov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u47	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr Netsov! I've prepared a lot of materials on the subject. I am ready to answer a lot of questions about the toll system, about the mixed integrated revenue generation system, the toll system for cars and electronic cars, because our main task of the MRB and the Road Infrastructure Agency, in the first and second years of the mandate, is not the rehabilitation of roads and the construction of new ones, but the introduction of the toll system. From now on, we will have very difficult public discussions with industry organisations of carriers, with other affected countries, with the non-governmental sector. It's a good thing we started. For the past three months, colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency are doing extremely good and effective work in accordance with the established linear schedules. The necessary working groups have been created, as the system will not only bring revenue to the road sphere, road safety, but there will be other indirect benefits in the fight against smuggling, illegal transportation of refugees and many other similar sectors. That's why she was so attacked. For more than two years there have been appeals and procedural tricks to be able to start with its actual construction. We created thematic working groups that function on a weekly basis, together with project managers at the level of meetings and reports on the linear schedule. There is a working group on the road infrastructure, working group on the management centre. We've located a location for both centers and alternates. We started his equipment and furniture. There's a working group. We have an external law firm that helps us to change the legal framework, which is an integral part of the overall process of the introduction of the Tol system. We have a working group to pay and bill. There we are supported by the Customs Agency and the National Revenue Agency Logistically and Methodically. We have working groups We have already carried out a comprehensive filming and evaluation of the state of the infrastructure available, such as the frames and their equipment. Colleagues have developed and modular the software for the future tol system based on the requirements and conditions of our Republican road network. We have concluded a framework agreement with the World Bank, which will do us many services, the most important of which are tariffs, the financial model and the choice of the range of roads that will fall within the scope of the Tol system. This does not cancel the commitment of the selected contractor "The Austrian company Kapsch" to build an infrastructure to generate tolls along 82% of the republican roads, according to the job and contract. That's about 16 grand. km, but we will start by charging a smaller percentage of roads that are in good and satisfactory condition. This will be determined by colleagues from the World Bank, will again be subjected to public discussions and will go through an act of the Council of Ministers. From the point of view of speed and expertise, colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency are secured. It remains to create the new unit that will operate the toll system to generate revenue on the basis of which the new roads in the country will be built. The deadline for starting electronic wineries is 1 January 2019, to remove paper stickers, and from mid-2019, that is, six months later, to start introducing and charging the toll system. That means the future tol system will start from mid-2019. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u48	Thank you, dear Minister. We begin the second round of questions. The first question is from GERB's parliamentary group. Here you are, Mrs. Alexieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u49	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, in 2017 the government allocated additional funds to the budget of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Ministry of the Interior for the implementation of repair activities on the Republican Road Network. One of the sites for implementation with the funds allocated is the repair of the section of the Sofia ring road in the part of Kasicene to the highway. In this regard, my question is: how far has the implementation of this object, which is of great social importance? Through it will be realized the connection between the motorway "Hemus" and the highway "Trakiya". As a Member of the National Assembly who lives in this area, I would like to extend my question and ask you about the work on the extension of the South Rainbow on the road from Trakiya Highway to the district of Mladost. I know this project is a joint project with the Sofia Municipality and the MRB. In fact, the sections from Kazichene to Trakia Motorway and from the highway to the district of Mladost are connected. The construction of the section from the district of Mladost and the highway of Trakia will relieve the busy traffic at the entrance and exit of the capital after the highway of Trakia.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u50	Thank you, my dear Mrs. Alexieva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u51	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Alexieva, we talk a lot about the country, but we have not forgotten Sofia. Bulgaria has a capital, which is intensive and visible to everyone, which has been successfully developing over the last 15 years as infrastructure and everything else. The state has a commitment to Sofia Municipality, to the capital and to the largest site for the transport infrastructure the subway, and of course to the Sofia ring road. I am convinced that within this government and until the middle of the next mayor's term, the entire ring road will be completed. [[Private applause from GERB.]] The most severe stretch that remained, but has not been rehabilitated for more than 40 years, was the so-called Eastern tangent of the Sofia ring road. As you said, it is the direct link between the highway "Hemus" "Northern Bulgaria," and the highway "Trakiya" "South Bulgaria." We must not forget that this is the link between the north-speed tangent and from there to Kalotina and Central and Western Europe. This is the busiest road in the country. Over 45,000 cars in rush hour. It's nearing Trakia Motorway to 40,000 cars. This is the busiest road section. She was in a tragic state. I am convinced that those passing on it until last year remember what baboons and lunar craters she looked like. The Council of Ministers, with a deliberate decree, has granted resources. Last year, we managed to get to Kazichene from the highway of Trakia and in the direction of the highway of Hemus. This year, we were able to rehabilitate the rest of the tape from Kazichene to the road node for the Constantinople and the Trakiya Motorway. Just a little bit more early, 4 days earlier, you released this precinct so we wouldn't have to make it difficult for the holiday traffic. Our commitment was to Gergyovden, we were able to launch the section on Monday, only the heavy bridge facility, which has almost three kilometers of linear road over Tsarigradsko shose over Trakia Motorway to the junction to the village of Lozen, next to the lighthouse of the Lozen village. At the moment, we are almost ready with the technical project, we have set a deadline until the call for this direction is made from June 25 to June 26, i.e. by the 20th, to be ready with the final part of the eastern tangent. Apart from this, whatever commitment we made, together with the mayor of the city, 22nd month of March, if I am not mistaken for the memory, we started with the public order for the South Rainbow from the village of Lozen to the branch of the village, i.e. the connection with the highway of Trakia, a lot of over 120 million. Currently, alienation procedures are under way. We're choosing a contractor, we're starting to build, and I've mentioned in what time ranges I'm confident we'll be done with its successful realization. The link remains between the so-called rainbow of South rainbows and the tangent of Blvd. "Bulgaria" next to the highway "Lyulin". That's where we're going to start the public procurement again this year. There are extremely dynamic design procedures going on, so I mentioned for what, I will seek out, time ranges within this cabinet mandate will end with the complete completion of Sofia's ring around which will lead to much of the traffic from the central city and especially the one that passes is one that is also one of the measures except for improving economic business, climate, better transport accessibility and movement of people. One of the measures, albeit circumstantial, to improve the environmental conditions Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u52	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u53	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, we have heard of the progress on the current projects, deadlines for implementation and how pink the situation is, however, it is not. Repairs, landslides, problems with new ones and already finished by everyone are everyday. There is no highway that hasn't been opened and in a few months it hasn't been opened for repair, and in order to get into the particulars, because you mentioned it, I will set an example for the highway. The total length of the route is 20 km, the highway is officially opened, I stress, 2011 on 15 May. In the period from 2012 to April 2017, we are talking about the Lüline Highway, a service facility being paid out under contracts amounting to 8 million. leva. The Lyulin Highway is closed, closed and at present one lane is closed due to the fact that there are active landslides, although they have been strengthened over the years. Mr. Minister, who controlled the contractor? Why not take responsibility from the contractors? How many warranty times on the highways in Bulgaria? Why are you paying money from the state budget? I've heard from this tribune that the project is guilty, previous governments are guilty, time is to blame, but that doesn't justify the holes in the highways. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is: will the contractors companies be held responsible for the warranty deadlines and by the people who have documented the good quality of the completed highways in Bulgaria because the budget for sites that are fully guaranteed is still being paid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u54	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Secretary, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, please, no quarrels in the courtroom. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u55	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, you have heard my advice, but listen carefully to what I say from this stand. I never mentioned the timing was the fault. You mentioned that I said that the time was the fault, listen carefully! I will also specify the case of the highway "Lyulin" and we will talk about perhaps other motorways, landslides, holes, a very popular topic, and a guarantee, of course. I'll start with the guarantees you're referring to. I mentioned it in the public domain about a month ago, but since we're talking about something, we're working on it, we're currently changing the warranty notice. We will put it to public discussion, as it is appropriate, as is the procedure under the Law on Regulatory Acts, together with the branch organizations, to increase the duration of the guarantees not only for motorways but for all roads. The warranty terms.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u56	[[GERB, from place.]] Louder!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u57	It's hard for me, Mr. Lazarov, higher. The guarantee deadlines for highways are currently five years. Five years! Ten are for the facilities of bridge facilities, tunnels, viaducts and so on. Ten for the rigs! [[Reply.]] You're a good engineer. For the current repairs, for example one year, insane deadlines, low warranty deadlines in the Ordinance. The commitment that I have made not from the stand, in the public space we are working on, is to increase the guarantee deadlines. Apart from that, in public procurement, the methodologies that will be placed on the line, the deadlines, but unrealistically we define such... 100, 200, 300 years, which no one can subsequently control, will have a maximum one, but will be one of the main measurers, therefore guarantee deadlines, forgive how participants will be ranked among dozens of other criteria, such as the statutory procedure under the Public Procurement Act. Specially for the highway of Lulin. You can't look for a guarantee of anything, and I think that last time I mentioned it very precisely, I will not return the years that you are angry with me by saying what year, but in which a construction contract and in which a project at that time, thus assigned to the highway, there was no strengthening of landslides, there was no strengthening of landslides. How will you seek a guarantee from a builder whose contract does not have such a commitment? Nonsense, nonsense! Apart from that, unfortunately, because it is really illiterate, incompetent, I will not comment on how the highway is designed I can tell him who he is, Mapa-Gengis, a Turkish consortium. There is no harm, but simply in the contractual relations between him and the state have not come upon these conditions for strengthening landslides and for their future maintenance. We cannot annex a contract under the Public Procurement Act, Mr. Bonev. There are regulations, there are procedures to carry out previous governments violations. See how it's designed, how it's assigned, and someone has to fix your shit again. We're fixing them right now, by the way. For the holes in the new highways, this is once again a really serious speculation, as the holes and repairs and under "Hemus" are in sections that were built more than 15, 20 years ago, mostly more than 30 years ago. At the moment we are still working on the unstable, palatial practice of filling holes, but after the introduction of the Tol system we will be doing complete rehabilitations of those compromised sections, built in most of their parts, with all due respect, at Bai Toshovo time. It's a good thing they've been built, it's a fact, but they've been unrepaired for over 30 years. There are holes in them, dear colleagues, there are holes in them. For Lyulin, I'll give you some more personal documentation. Once I answered from this high tribune, for the second time I answer: look for the blame shortly before 2007 - 2008 when the appropriate procedure was awarded. I mentioned at what values over EUR 8 million per linear kilometer, more than EUR 8 million, I repeat, within a linear kilometer, without including the reinforcement measures of the landslides. Well, say hello, say hello! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u58	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Next, a question from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, every time we see you, we talk about Varna, and this time it will not be very different, especially for the road Varna We also know that API implements a project which is a project that is a project that is a project that is a project that is a project that is a project that is part of this particular time. In this regard, I would ask you to explain to us when the implementation of the sites that are planned will be completed so that normal movement can be ensured along the first-class route and traffic is taken out of the populated areas by securing the movement. This is extremely important because, you know, on our Black Sea coast this time is an important artery that connects economically the two largest cities that lie on our Black Sea coast. When there is workload, it means workload for business, problems for movement and for citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u60	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Alexandrov, yes, all of Bulgaria's roads are important, somewhere, mainly for demographic and social reasons, elsewhere for purely economic, in third place we combine all these, and we have transport corridors that also account for supranational, global transport priorities. Especially for the speedy, fast connection between Varna and Burgas, it is not a coincidence that we can see the Black Sea Highway on the map, as promises, not only promises, the policies we conduct, the Programme we implement, are realistic and cannot give unrealistic expectations, exclude the form of an acquired partnership, for which the future potential investors and beneficiaries are no longer subject to the bill, and for good reason, because the traffic between Varna and Burgas are basically seasonal, so I do not open the word for the Black Sea Motorway. But apart from that, in order to improve transport accessibility, I think we are making a little effort. Many elections, as they say, have passed, many years have passed when talking about the road between Burgas and Sunny Beach and here are the real actions. At the moment, last year we started after the completion of all procedures - heavy alienation, heavy environmental, and this year early, by about 18 June we will end with the two toughest stretches between Pomorie and Aheloy and the tour of Aheloy, where the biggest ones are going on the Black Sea coast, and especially in the direction from Burgas to Nessebar. Apart from that, we are currently proceeding the alienation of the Pomorie branch there is also the chief contractor. You know, since 2016. 22 complaints on the topic of "foreigns" by affected owners. After completion of the judicial proceedings and if they reach court procedures, or what is the other hypothesis if we reach an out-of-court agreement, together with our colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency, we will start as early as this year, perhaps during the summer season to start with these activities, the months of June of July, because the route of the Pomorie branch does not coincide with only about 5%, by the way, coincides with the existing route of the road, that is to say it will not violate traffic and passage, and the transport links between Burgas and the Sunny coast. Apart from being even more specific, we are talking about the North Speed Node of Burgas, to take the traffic out of the highway from the town. We will conclude this year with the plotted plans and will start with a public procurement for engineering, i.e. a selection of designer and builder, so that we can finish with the overall section in its speedy form from the highway of Trakiya. The northern direction for Varna, speaking of which, we will rehabilitate, started last year, although partial rehabilitation of the 7 km and 300 meters from the Black Sea motorway in the direction of Varna Burgas and the public procurement has already passed. That is to say, we have implemented the public contract for the repair of the bridge facility, which will start after the summer tourist season. Thank you. It's basically information.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u62	Thank you, dear Minister. Is there a question from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? Here you go, Mr. Ali. While Mr. Ali occupies a place in the stands, today we have students from 97 secondary school "Brothers Miladinov". Let us greet them, fellow Members, with welcome! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u63	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, you mentioned the system several times. As far as I am aware, 80% of the Republican road network will be included in this system, which means that not only transiting heavy goods vehicles will move through this system, but also Bulgarian companies, suppliers, who provide services in transport, and others will use this system. My specific question is: when will it really be put into service, is there any deadlines? The procedure, as far as I understand it, is a fact there is a performer. Since when will the real implementation of the system itself begin? That's my specific question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Come in for an answer, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u65	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali, a moment ago I tried systematically to answer some of the question, but yours is really full of more specifics and I will be specific in my answer. I'll just say, yes, 82% of the Republican roads over 16,000. km will fall within the scope of the toll system, because I think it is unfair, since there is such a contract, such a request in the public procurement, not to build the system in fullness. Otherwise, we have to save on the artist's resources. To be correct, to be statutory, economically efficient, we will build on these 82% of Republican roads, as it is under contract, as it was at the request of the Tender Documentation. However, we are not going to start the demand, which is what I mentioned just now, and with the revenue generation from all these kilometers. This will be said by the World Bank after public consultations at expert level and with affected branch organizations, and not only after a political decision that will be taken by the Council of Ministers. Let's not get ahead of ourselves, but around 55. 60% of the roads will first fall under the range of the toll system. With regard to specific deadlines, by the end of August, we must have a tariff model. From there we will start public consultations, you know, we will have a conciliation procedure with the European Commission. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. E-winettes, as I mentioned, and in mid-2019. I am talking about customs, about the National Revenue Agency, about the Border Police and about the Ministry of the Interior in the middle of 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u66	Thank you, dear Minister. From the parliamentary group of Volya? Colleagues, guests of the National Assembly today are bannermen and assistants from the representative units for participation in the parade on 6 May. [[Applause.]] They are our guests on the occasion of the exhibition "Thousands" - an army that will be opened in the northern lobby and dedicated to the 140th anniversary of the creation of the Bulgarian Army. Here you go, Mrs. Georgieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u67	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, Lot 3.2 from Struma Motorway between Krupnik and Kresna is the toughest and hardest stretch of the highway as it passes through the Kresna Gorge. The terrain is difficult, strongly crossed, with very large cross gorges, which makes it a challenge for both designers and builders. In your exposé we heard how much it would possibly cost to draw up a new road plan. My question is: when do you plan to start building this precinct? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u68	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u69	Madam President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Georgieva, yes, this is the toughest, most complex, and it will be the latest part of Struma Motorway. If I have to turn back the countdown time on December 2023, when we have to have finished the whole highway, including this section, we have to set normal and really feasible deadlines for the implementation of the section, of the site, to start with the actual construction in May. We are currently in a court procedure with applicants for environmental impact assessment. You know, there is regretting the choice of the route, the choice made by colleagues from the Agency on the basis of serious public consultations with the academic community, with the non-governmental sector. The existing route in the direction of Greece is maintained, and from Greece in the direction of Sofia the route goes east of the current route over the gorge. I am convinced that after the investment procedure currently related to the ruling of the Supreme Administrative Court, within a month, two will have a solution. If it is in favour of the contracting entity, i.e. the Road Infrastructure Agency, we are launching the tender procedure for the selection of a contractor as quickly as possible. And we haven't stopped working on the site right now, we're working on the plotting plans so that we're fully prepared to start with the actual construction and execution of this heavy stretch after the court's ruling. It will be very difficult from the point of view of construction, it will require really very serious expertise and capacity of future companies, so the conditions will be quite serious not only as warranty deadlines, but as capacity and requirements for candidates, as we are talking about complex tunnel, albeit small, facilities, serious bridge such, the longest bridge facilities built in Bulgaria. The highest will be precisely in this area to ensure the completion of the entire highway indeed in 2023. Thank you all for the hearing today. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u70	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear MPs, the procedure provides for an opportunity within five minutes for the parliamentary groups to state their attitude towards the answers that Minister Nankov gave to questions today. We'll start in order. From the parliamentary group of GERB Mr. Tsvetanov, you are welcome to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u71	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I believe that today is the good approach that we should have in Parliament when we listen to the executive on important issues relating to public importance and, of course, to what people are interested in on the ground. I am also extremely impressed by the questions that were asked both by the parliamentary majority and by the opposition, because on the roads of Bulgaria it does not matter who of which political power it is. We all want better infrastructure, to have more opportunities for investment, for more business, but not least, and greater safety for the road traffic of the country. I believe that with the policy made by the government of Borisov 1, 2 and 3, everything was done to actually return to the opportunities given by the European Union over the years when we are already a member. Colleagues, let's not forget that by 2005, the decision on the highway was to have a concession contract for 35 years and all this would have been a huge profit that would not have gone to improve the infrastructure, would not have improved the condition of all those who travel on the highway, but would have been in another direction for the benefit of certain personal or corporate interests. I am extremely impressed by the political will that Borisov had in the first term, and the consistency of all the offices so far. We know that the Thracian highway was finalized from Sofia to Burgas with European funds. Here I can say that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works in the face of the previous ministers, now Minister Nankov is making the best efforts not to lose any Eurocent from the European operational programmes. Of course, what Minister Nankov has been doing so far has hardly been given such publicity, because for just last year a billion and four hundred for infrastructure projects, which is extremely important, and to stop speculation, publicly speaking some political people that the most expensive highways are being built in Bulgaria. We've seen that here we're talking about a linear kilometer of 3 million. EUR 3 million. 100 is average. Yes, indeed, by 2006 we have bad practices, where we have the most expensive stretch of highway Let us say, however, that in countries that are neighbouring Bulgaria, such as Greece, where we are talking about 10 million; Serbia Euros. I believe that what Minister Nankov said and what is really about preserving this sustainability, even improving the rehabilitation of the infrastructure, is related to the procedure that ended and which, unfortunately, could not end for years for tolling the system. Now we all know that more revenue will actually come from the Tol system, in the amount of about a billion and a hundred leva, as stated today by the Minister, in order to actually rehabilitate the infrastructure for which for decades there was no necessary financial resources to be made. I also say that at present, the state and the country's budget are spending about 320 million. For rehab. We understand ourselves that it is extremely insufficient. Most importantly, everything that was presented today by the Minister, the answers he gave on all issues, I can say that I am extremely satisfied with the way and approach not only for the current state and the short-term measures taken by the Ministry, but especially the long-term vision and what is expected to happen in the country in 2018, 2019, 2020, 2021. I am convinced that in this four-year management mandate with the parliamentary majority, which supports today's government, of course, we hope for support from the opposition in the good policies that are undoubtedly implemented by the Regional Ministry, just to be supported and, at the end of this management mandate, to outline the better perspective for our country in a subsequent management mandate. When there is consistency, when there is sustainability, things can happen and more investors can actually be brought into the country, and we can also create better conditions for the Bulgarian citizens who have left in recent years to return because they know that things are already getting better and we are moving towards the better path. For me it is extremely important that on an extremely painful topic: Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo," we already have procedures that are running. It is also extremely important that the commitment that the government has made to be able to cut Botevgrad "Mezdra," the original version and then to reach Vidin, Kalotina, Sofia. This gives more opportunities for our country to be able to come more revenue from the airport, which will go through all these infrastructure projects. Of course, the Struma Highway remains a serious priority. We know what the concentration of heavy crashes is in the Kresna section of Sandanski. I am convinced that with the efforts being made, we will at least be able to catch up on the delay, which, unfortunately, is by several months and perhaps nearly a year, have influenced the procedures which, in one form or another, were with some other inclination, but not with the transparent approach that the Ministry is currently making. We know that there was indeed a serious deficit in the office. It was unacceptable for the evaluators to find the rules of procedure and all the documentation that corrupted and created another emphasis in people's sense of corruption and whatever other arrangements. I am convinced, Mr. Minister, that the efforts you are making I have the only request, make similar meetings of regional importance, familiarize the local business, local authorities, the public with the policies made by the Ministry. As far as the parliamentary majority is concerned, together with the United patriots, I hope you will always be supported by the other MPs for policies that lead to a much better, positive focus in the country's policy and governance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u72	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Applause from GERB.]] From the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u73	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just a year ago, we, from BSP, requested the establishment of an inquiry committee on highways and corruption public procurement. To remind you of the reasons for this, if you've forgotten them. In the spring of last year the prosecutor entered the API, together with OLAF and DANS and gave information that public procurement was being negotiated in API. We asked for this committee to see who has political responsibility. You were scared then, you hid. You hid, but the problems were even more clear. Today, after a year, we are still hearing about highways that are no longer even speed roads, given what restrictions we have on them for movement. Today you show beautiful highway routes to show yourself how good you are and how much you have done. Today you decided that the fairy tale would hide the truth. Moreover, today's hearing was an emancipation of a perfectly prepared, prepared and executed crisis PR action, alas without content. Dear MPs of GERB, Dear Minister! You clearly once again prove that you live in a parallel world that has nothing to do with reality. Because otherwise today you would be at the protest on the Nikopol road and explain to the people there that they are black-eyed and do not see their pink future in your color map. Because today, instead of animating us with colorful routes, you should have simply told us where you're going to get 600 million. lv. to complete Lot 3.2 on the highway I am referring to the highway Struma. Today you were supposed to show us how many holes there are on the newly built roads because it's stolen from their construction. At least one thing has become clear as the administration in Bulgaria is bloated, it is not enough to have a clerk to every hole as the general prime minister. [[Noise and lines.]] We were supposed to talk today, not about success, but about problems. For problems related to the unclean vegetation on the roads, because it is a reason not to have visibility on the road. You can't see the boards, the gutters, which are covered with mud and grass, which is also the cause of water retention on the road and the danger of ice and water planing. Any one of you who's ever been on the road knows it's true. You can't see the mark drawn at the end of the roads. In many places of this vegetation, no road signs can be seen. I'll give you a whole list of these roads in a moment so that if you don't know them, you can teach them. We were supposed to talk today about the road grid markings in the country. In many places, as you know, there is no such thing, and in many places you see it with a readout, you have to be a little bit psychic to see what the mark is. It is dangerous in the dark part of the day to travel such roads, especially in bad weather. You know all those who drive cars, and you don't use them! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u74	Excuse me, Mr. Ermenkov. [[The National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov spoke with Minister Nikolay Nankov.]] Mr. Tsvetanov, please. You're gonna have to extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u75	Mr. Tsvetanov, could we still listen carefully to you, did not tell the Minister how to answer you. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u76	We've restored order to the court. Mr. Ermenkov, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u77	Thank you. I said that in many places the marking is missing and this is particularly dangerous during night traffic and winter time. Those who drive your own cars and don't use them, you know that. [[Noise and lines.]] On the roads due to mud buildup and marking with apparently poor paints, I will not tell the reasons why the paints are poor, there is no orientation of the road. Today, although not related to road construction, but vital for people's lives on the road, we had to talk about the Dai and the arrests there, about the arrested brother of the Secretary General of the Ministry of Transport. Alas, that did not happen! The beautiful routes on the map, gentlemen in charge, will not fool people, will not reduce road accidents, will not make us a more reliable NATO member with road infrastructure, which currently only partially meets our allied obligations to maintain road infrastructure in accordance with the Alliance's requirements. You know that there are recommendations from Brussels on which nothing has been done in this direction. So, Mr. Minister, instead of showing us colorful paths like first grade students, it's nice to realize the bitter truth. In Bulgaria, highways are built not to have safer movement, but to absorb billions. Moreover, in order not to stop the golden hen laying its eggs in the pot of the management and their nearby companies, these highways are being built to be subsequently renovated again with new billions. In Bulgaria, there are settlements that are cut off from the rest of the country, cut off from culture, cut off from health care, cut off from education due to impenetrable roads. That's what we were supposed to discuss, but you showed us something else, something that's only a myth. And while you live in myths in Bulgaria, we do not need to wage war with anyone. The conditions for killing each other on the roads are more bloody than any war there are purchased books, bribed controllers, shitty roads and as a result: many black headscarves. That is why we ask you, Minister: get down to the ground and start solving the real problems, not dealing with cheap crisis PR stocks and mythography! [[(Comments from GERB:]] Because you're yelling at me about the weather, we never once called your chairman, who delayed it by a minute and a half. I'm 49 seconds overdue. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u78	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. The time note is on me. I tolerantly allow the speaker to complete his presentation within a minute. Dear Members of the National Assembly, in the hall of the balcony are our guests from the eco-club of the Small Ecologists. Ivan Rilski " in Sofia" fourth class. Let's say hello! [[(Everyone's up. (Applause)]] Let's move on. [[Replicates between Minister Nikolay Nankov and President Yavor Notev. Noise and lines.]] The Minister may request the floor and should be given the floor. Mr. Minister, it's your choice at any moment after the matter is over...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u79	Do I have the right to speak?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u80	You're right, I'll give you an opportunity to speak. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I'm going out to express three or four of my personal regrets. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u82	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u83	First of all, I regret that Stanishev's government marks clean ditches, builds highways. Borisov's office came and stopped marking, stopped cleaning ditches. That was your opinion. Good thing it was Oresharski's office building highways, repairing roads, fixing 40-year-old holes, like in Gulyantsi right now. Borisov 2's office came and stopped rehabilitating roads, stopped building. I'm sorry you're getting that impression, but I'm sorry you're manipulating public opinion in such a cruel way. Especially for Gulyantsi: currently engineer Atanasov is designing and next week we start rehabilitation especially on this road. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm sorry that you didn't understand this is really my main regret that you didn't understand the essence of the policies that we are leading. The systemic problem in Bulgaria is not from us, it is not from you. More than 30 years old is the system problem with underfinancing of roads. If we listen to your speculations, manipulations on the subject and brainwashing with similar reasonings and nothing doing, when you are in power, we, after 30 years of being alive and healthy, will talk again on the same topics, again about the bad roads, again about the holes in them. We solve the systemically huge major problem in the road sector, namely the problem of underfinancing, we solve the system problem of poor repairs. I also mentioned the guarantees that will be increased. I mention several times, dozens of times from this high tribune of the future tol system, which will not be a panacea, by the way, but will solve much of the problems that you comment on and for which during your mandates you did not have the courage to take any steps in its introduction. We are going to introduce it, we are going to generate revenue that is not for us or for you or for someone in power, but for the entire society. Because in five, six, seven years, we will be talking about quite other topics related to the road sector, not about holes, markings and so on, having resources and carrying out quality, effective regional policies. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u84	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ermenkov, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u85	Dear Mr. President, please remind the ministers that they are in Parliament and to treat the Members of the National Assembly with due respect. It is unacceptable for a minister from the stands to claim that MPs are brainwashing. At least that's rude, not to say it's impertinent. This is clearly some normal way of behavior of the ministers of GERB, because it is not the only one, and others have done it from this stage. Please, when a minister comes out here to act normal, to use normal vocabulary. I never once told him he was lying, I told him he was creating myths. [[Replicates from Minister Nikolai Nankov.]] He told us we're brainwashing. We do our job and we tell the truth. If the truth is brainwashing, he's probably right. We don't say what it was 10 years ago, we say what we want today to be and what we want tomorrow to be. He didn't even understand that, but it didn't stop him from coming out and insulting us. I ask you very much, Mr. Chairman, the next time the Minister comes out, very carefully watch what he says, because it humiliates not only us that we speak but humiliates the entire National Assembly with such rude, uncultural and insolent speeches. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u86	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. When the procedure is in the manner of conduct, I have the opportunity to take an attitude. Mr. Ermenkov, it is difficult to react in advance before we know what will be heard from these microphones. Your note is completely justified, but we have difficulty whenever a speaker stands on the stand. I also call for tolerance and for a tone that belongs to the institution. Thanks for the note. Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Mr. Chairman, this wouldn't have happened with Mr. Ermenkov's procedure if you hadn't given the minister the floor. Yes, he has the right to speak at any time he wants to. He had the opportunity of eight questions, eight minutes each, to speak from this tribune. And whatever he had to say, he should have said it, not waited for the opposition to tell him the truth, then come out and justify himself. Mr. Minister, how long are you going to explain that you're waiting for over a billion proceeds for the toll system when you don't have the fare? [[Replicates from Minister Nikolai Nankov.]] How do you calculate this billion tell me? Based on what price? Stop lying to Bulgarian citizens! Until you put the tariff on the toll system here on the table in the Bulgarian Parliament, stop saying how much money you will collect!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u88	Mr. Svilensky!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u89	You will collect nothing until this Parliament votes these tariffs! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u90	Mr. Svilensky, thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear Mr. Svilensky, you are calling on me not to give the floor to the Minister and at the same time you are asking him questions. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's get into the regulation. There was an opportunity for the Minister to complete his statement and this is by our rules. [[Noise.]] Please calm down! Mr. Veselinov of the parliamentary group "United patriots" has the floor to address the answers to the questions asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u91	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! First of all, I would urge the tone of the room to be more relaxed. Colleagues on the left had the opportunity to ask questions. I didn't hear any of the questions that they ended up putting together in their opinion, and at the same time they were super affected even that they didn't sound answers. And instead of asking colleagues why they didn't have a highway pass through their village, you should have asked some of these questions, colleagues. I think that's when you'd hear, hopefully, adequate answers. First of all, today's debate has been important, and I want to share this with you because, indeed, the citizens, we, say, are somewhat familiar with the information that has been delivered, but the citizens need to know what the state is doing for their development. There was actually a long-standing deficit of thought in the direction of regional development, a deficit which I dare say in this term of government is being overcome. From the reasoning where the holes are not mended, which region is more privileged, who can and should absorb more funds, because there is a corresponding stronger lobby, in fact we have left things there..big territories of the country not to have adequate transport infrastructure and not to have this chance of development that actually deserves each of the regions. I think this is the main, principled change in the policy of MRDP during this term, and I would like to say that we, from the United patriots, are admiring this. We'll help him, as we've helped him before as politics. At the same time, there are systemic problems. Some of them are really related to the failure to finance the sector, some of them are related to the politicization of the process, including the constant unfounded complaints, which slow down the highways, and this again damages the Bulgarian citizens. We changed the Law a year ago and made the proceedings on EIA complaints in one instance and quickly. Then there were almost some revolutionary speeches on the left how we betray Bulgarian nature and so on. Turns out the green ones on the inside are red. Those who mourn are with the same ideology clearly and continue absolutely unprincipled, without reason to laud projects on which the regions rely. In this regard, Mr. Minister, we are reaching out our hand to think about even more serious protection of the public and public interest from such complaints, because there must be some relevance to the desire of the person X or the organization X to gain popularity by protecting some project or acquiring some money and the ability of hundreds of thousands of people to receive not only better transport but also their chance of realization. Let us think this problem together and look for, if necessary, new legislative solutions, because this, I think, is also a systemic problem that affects the development of transport infrastructure. We are pleased with your answers. We hope that the Ministry will be at the appropriate level from now on. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Before I give the floor to the next parliamentary group, just to present the guests of the balcony, these are guests from the municipality of Pirdop, who have come to observe our meeting. We can say hello. [[Applause.]] Here's your attitude, Mr. Ali. You asked the questions, you will clearly state the attitude on behalf of a parliamentary group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, on many of the questions we have asked you, you have been very smooth and tactful, but I would like to share some important points. I have a feeling that everything that's being done is not planned and is in a chaotic mood. Why would I say that? Yeah, investments are made, highways are made. All this is very good, but what is planned? I asked you a question, you specifically did not answer me: how much are planned from here on a year from the Republican infrastructure to be rehabilitated and reconstructed? Given that the Republican road infrastructure is about 20 thousand kilometers, as we mentioned, and seven, and you said eight thousand kilometers are in poor condition, if we say according to regulations and required from 8 to 12 years, if we take an average of 10 years of rehabilitation, or 10% of those 20 thousand kilometers of Republican road network is restored, this means that a minimum of 2,000 km of road infrastructure for rehabilitation should be laid down per year. I think that's what you're convinced of. Even for what we are late for and are not done with, you said not a thousand, and even 600 this year we are restoring, this means that in order to plan future repairs from next year or with the new budget, it means that at least for the next five years we have to rehabilitate about 3000 km per year so that it doesn't happen after 10 years not at 50%, but only 20% of the good roads remain and instead of one third of the roads that are bad, it turns out that we are left with less than 20% rehabilitated road network, because every year, you know, it is erotic according to the requirements and standards. Dear Minister, it is very important not only to plan Republican road networks as rehabilitation. The important thing is to rehabilitate the municipal road structure with the municipal mayors through the National Association of Municipalities. Why would I say that? Because if the municipal road infrastructure isn't rehabilitated, how are we going to have access to those highways that we're building right now? Thus, the economy of these municipalities simply stops. There is no way without a municipal, third-class, fourth-class road network to have access to these infrastructure major projects that we are talking about today, which is the subject, to have access to and these municipalities continue to suffer. I really want you to take these advices that experts give you. The experts of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms have prepared and prepared data that I can provide to you in the future.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u94	Mr. Ali, you're out of time! I'm interrupting!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u95	And see that we're not talking nonsense right now. About what you said about 50 million. lv. from next year will be allocated to municipal road infrastructure, this is, of course, extremely insufficient, but if I do not know if this money is outside the ones we talked about and the water sector where it should be invested, and this fund, which should have been created at the beginning of the year, and you have not created it and we hope that this will become a fact at least this summer, so that from the beginning of 2019 the investments can start right in the underground infrastructure, so that we can have the opportunity that 50 million. lv. for underground infrastructure to be invested. You know, until the plumbing is replaced, we can't bet funds for asphalting these municipal roads. Dear Minister, for tol the system you have mentioned several times and confirmed that in the tender procedure are laid down: building 80% of the Republican road network or this system is put into 80% of this system. Did you make precise estimates of how many of the transits, because we have cameras that are counters everywhere?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u96	Mr. Ali, you're out of time! Please navigate towards completion!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u97	Just a second and I'll finish. Have you calculated how many heavy goods vehicles are transiting, and what means will we have of them as income in the Republican budget? And how much will we reach into the pocket of the Bulgarian consumer? Because by passing through the Republican infrastructure, these heavy goods machines, buses, trucks, those who provide domestic services will, of course, increase the price of consumers who will also benefit from these needs in everyday living. How much money will the citizen pay after the construction of this toll system and of these one billion revenues what is the percentage ratio of the taxpayer that will pay when prices rise, and how much of those who use the infrastructure itself as transiting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u98	Thank you and I for finishing... Dear Members of Parliament, you can see that in the form of an opinion on the answers, additional questions are asked. That is exactly the point of the Minister's opportunity to take action at any time he wishes, and that is why I have given this opportunity. If you wish, you have the opportunity to answer, Mr. Minister. Please, the questions were very direct to you as well. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u99	I'll be very brief, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali, I have given some of your questions specific answers. You have expanded with even more specific complementary questions. In the case of calculations and interpolation from the rear. Yes, we have done, but on the basis of the tariffs that the colleagues on the left comment on, those who predicted revenues between billion and billion and 200 million, the World Bank, the same ones, I don't make up the figures, I don't take them out of the bag, I don't lie, and I don't speculate, they're currently making a model for tariffs. The same experts from the World Bank, together with our fellow financiers from the Road Infrastructure Agency, estimated that in the future we are commenting on the figure one billion, about which we said that there is planning and forecastability, wine stickers retain the same price. We've discussed this, there will be no increase. About 240 - 250 million leva of vintage, 750 million heavy goods vehicles. Of these, in terms of interpolation by 36%, which I mentioned, in this hypothesis, we have spoken to angro, as the exact calculations are currently being made as to what the tariff will be and what the range of roads will be, but about 50% of the revenue from the toll system of heavy goods vehicles will be from transiting. We come from the current logic, in which about 100 million. lv. are the revenues from heavy goods vehicles, 50% of them belong to domestic carriers, about 50 million, I say around, as there are 103. 51 million are of domestic carriers, 52 million are of transiters. Out of 50 million of the transiters, we will increase the revenue from the transits about seven times. To tell you what our initial accounts are, calculations based on which we are currently charging in the listed range of roads. Regarding the prognosis, whether we are pursuing planning policy or working in a piece, it is a fact that we are perhaps one of the governments that listen most to the voice of civil society. The fact is that for most of these roads that are currently being protested, which are in a tragic state. I've mentioned from this tribune that if I'm a resident of this settlement, I'll protest, too. These are roads, Nikopol, Gulyantsi, for example, or the colleagues from Kubrat, who asked me questions of blitzcontrol, unrehabilitated by 40 years. This 47 years is not a rehabilitated road, mended, but here is the map with projects that are embedded in the National Strategy for the Development of Transport Infrastructure in its road part, the long-term document that we follow. And to say that there is no planning in policies and, respectively, logic and strategic approach?! All these sites are embedded in the National Strategy for the Development of Transport Infrastructure. I won't take up any more of your time. I bored you with talking today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I would like to address my colleagues from the Parliamentary Group. Welcome to Minister Nankov's response.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, as a member of the Regional Commission, I am often present at the cross-examinations we are subjecting you to in the Commission, and I am always impressed by the willingness and impatience you show when you answer. Therefore, I do not have any further questions that you may subsequently have to answer. I sincerely hope that all deadlines, and you have been quite specific, commitments that you make as a minister will be respected and hope that we will not fall into this Bulgarian maxim, that what I can promise you, no one else can give it to you. I really think that the answers that our colleagues have received here, we in the Regional Commission have received them repeatedly from you. Indeed, I welcome such an open debate and the way in which you have submitted the information that perhaps only you have. I sincerely hope that we at Volja-kun need to hear more from the cabinet, and I guess we'll get to that. Thank you for the answers we received from you. Good luck.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u102	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Let us thank you for today's participation in our meeting of Minister Nankov. Thank you for your answers. Dear Members of the National Assembly, the exhibition will open in the Northern lobby. The exhibition is dedicated to the 140th anniversary of the creation of the Bulgarian Army. All MPs are invited to attend the opening. We'll resume the meeting at 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u103	Dear Members of Parliament, take your seats so that we can continue the work on the weekly programme. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we move to the next point of our weekly programme: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LAW AND THE COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE AGENCIATORY. With the Commission's report on the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, we will be briefed by Mr. Lazarov, President of the Commission. You have the floor, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u104	Dear Mr. President, before I introduce you to the report, please put the vote to be put to the floor: Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, President of the National Assembly, Mr. Nikolay Nenkov, Vice-President, Mrs. Karakash, Director of the Directorate, and Mrs. Violeta Ducheva, Director of the Directorate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u105	Please vote for admission to the Chamber of the persons referred to by Mr. Lazarov. Vote 69 MPs: for 69, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor to introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u106	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act "National Security" No 802-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2018. At its regular meeting on 26 April 2018, the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act discussed the Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act, No 802-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2018. It was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the National Security Agency, Mrs. Tanya Karakash, Director of the Directorate at the National Security Agency, Mrs. Violeta Ducheva, Director of the Directorate at the National Security Agency. The bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, who stressed that the use of passenger information collected by air carriers is an important tool for carrying out prevention, detection and investigation of crimes and prosecution of perpetrators. The analysis of passenger booking data shall support the identification of high-risk passengers which are unknown until the time of the competent authorities. This, in turn, is extremely important for the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking, human trafficking, sexual exploitation of children and other serious crimes. In response to these threats in 2016 in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted and published Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Agency It was promulgated on 23 February 2016, i.e. before the promulgation of Directive (EU) 2016/681 of 27 April 2016, which is why all the requirements of the Directive have not been introduced with the same. In view of this, this bill provides: to review the list of criminal offences in relation to which passenger data are provided and processed; to arrange cases of joint use of flight codes; to specify time limits for the transmission of data by air carriers or authorised service providers of the National Unit for the reception and processing of passenger booking data; to provide API data and the Customs Agency with regard to its competence; to introduce a prohibition on discrimination in taking measures against a particular person; to arrange a procedure for the provision of competent data authorities which are depersonalised by concealment; to arrange a procedure for the provision or exchange of reservation data to passengers with the national units or other competent authorities of Member States of the European Union, to the European Union Agency for Cooperation in the field of law enforcement (Europol) or with third countries; to establish a data protection officer; to provide statistical information to the European Commission. Mr. Georgiev noted that Directive (EU) 2016/681 does not provide for an obligation of air carriers to provide the National Unit and crew data. It is introduced into our national legislation in order to create greater guarantees for the protection of national security and for the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution of the offences listed in the Directive. The proposed amendments to the Law on the State Agency "National Security" specify the provisions on the activities carried out by the Agency, the arrangements for examining proposals and signals, the competitions for the appointment of a public service in the Agency, the status of civil servants and the disciplinary violations carried out by the employees. An exception shall be provided for from the competition start for entering the Agency into service in respect of persons who are civil servants in the Ministry of Interior, in the Ministry of Defence, in the security services and in the public order services, if they meet the requirements for entering a public service in the Agency and after written consent of the Chair of the Agency and the Head of the Agency concerned. Such an exception shall also be provided for persons who are civil servants appointed under the Law on the Civil Service Officer in other departments, if they meet the requirements for taking up the relevant position in the State Agency's State Agency, after written consent of the Chair of the Agency and the head of the relevant office. This creates the possibility of mobility of public administration employees who have already been appointed by competition. The Bill has refined the texts on the early deletion of disciplinary penalties imposed on the Agency's staff. The same applies to certain administrative criminal provisions. Amendments to the Law on Legal Aid are envisaged in view of the amendments to the Law on State Agency "National Security" carried out by the Law on Countering Terrorism. They provided for the powers of the authorities of the Agency for the detention of persons and search of persons in custody for whom there is evidence that they have committed a crime related to any of the activities under art. 4, para. 1, t. 11 and 13 of the State Agency Act. In such cases, there should be an opportunity of professional protection under the Law on Legal Aid. The Law is intended to enter into force from the date of its promulgation in the Official Journal. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence and the access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 4 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u107	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. For the report of the Committee on Legal Affairs, please come in, Mrs. Fikirliyska. You have the floor to brief us on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act No 802-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2018. At its meeting held on 18 April 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act on National Security, No 802-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Nikolay Nenkov, Vice-President, Mrs. Tanya Karakash, Director of Administrative Directorate of Legal and Normal Activities, Mrs. Violeta Ducheva, Director of Specialized Directorate of Information Security. The bill was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nenkov, who pointed out that it introduced the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of passenger reservation data to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute terrorist offences and serious crimes. Mr. Nenkov noted that it complements the list of crimes for which the reservation data are provided and processed to passengers, as well as specify the rules on the receipt and processing of the data, the time limits and the order for their storage, access to the data and the order for their destruction. The draft law lays down the arrangements for the provision and exchange of passenger booking data with national units, with the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (Europol), with other competent authorities of Member States of the European Union and with third countries, as well as the procedure for providing statistical information to the European Commission. An obligation to provide the National Data Unit with crew data is also envisaged. Mr. Nenkov pointed out that the Bill refined the provisions on the activities carried out by the Agency, the competitions for the appointment of a public service, the status of civil servants and the disciplinary violations carried out by them. The bill also provides for additions to the Law on Legal Aid and to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Asked by MP Philip Popov, Ms. Ducheva replied that the carriers would have to store the booking data of passengers carried by air for up to 5 years. As a result of the discussion, the Commission on Legal 16-votes questions............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ proposes to the National Assembly to support the first vote Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Act National Security Agency No 802-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Fikirliyska. A report on the bill under consideration was also received by the Transport, Information Technology and Communications Commission. The report will introduce us to Mr. Kirchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u110	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act on National Security, No 802-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 2 May 2018, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act was discussed, No 802-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Angel Popov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mr. Nikolay Nenkov Vice-President of the State Agency. During the presentation of the Bill Mr. Nenkov stressed that the use of passenger information collected by air carriers is an important tool for carrying out prevention, detection and investigation of crimes and prosecution of perpetrators. The analysis of passenger booking data supports the identification of high risk passengers unknown to the competent authorities, in the context of the fight against terrorism, drug trafficking, human trafficking, the sexual exploitation of children and other serious crimes, and is an important element in identifying persons preparing and committing serious cross-border crimes and terrorist offences. Passenger reservation data shall be a record of the travel requirements of each passenger containing all the information necessary to process and control the reservation by the air carriers holding the reservation and by the air carriers involved for any travel booked by or on behalf of a passenger, whether the record is contained in reservation systems, take-off control systems used to register passengers prior to the flight or similar systems with the same functionality. These include information such as booking date/signing of the ticket, scheduled travel date (s), passenger names, date of birth, address and contact details, payment information, details of the complete route of the intended journey, travel agency or travel agent, ticket data, all pre-supplied passenger data, etc. During the debates on the Draft Law, importers argued that regulating the receipt and processing of passenger registration data is an up-to-date need not only for measures taken by the Member States of the European Union and NATO to counter international terrorism and other serious crimes, but also for border protection. The Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act adopted in 2016 establishes a national legal framework for the reception and processing of reservation data of passengers in the country carried by air. The bill also provides for the establishment of provisions aimed at: - a review of the list of criminal offences, the prevention, detection, investigation and prosecution to which passenger data are provided and processed in order to align it with the list annexed to Directive (EU) 2016/681; - settling cases of joint use of flight codes; - time limits for the transmission of data by air carriers or authorised service providers to the National Unit for the reception and processing of passengers' booking data in the Republic of Bulgaria, by air.. 48 hours prior to the announced take-off time for scheduled air carriers and 24 hours before the announced take-off time for air carriers engaged in irregular flights and immediately before the flight; - the provision of data to the Customs Agency in the light of its competence; - prohibition of discrimination in taking decisions to take measures against a specific person; - settling a procedure for providing competent authorities with data that are depersonalised by concealment; - settling arrangements for the provision or exchange of passenger registration data with national units or other competent authorities of Member States of the European Union, with the European Union Agency for Law Enforcement Cooperation (Europolis) or with third countries; - the introduction of the figure of the data protection officer; - the provision of statistical information to the European Commission. It was claimed by importers that, outside the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/681, an obligation to provide the National Unit and crew data and that such an obligation was imposed on air carriers in order to create greater safeguards for the protection of national security and to prevent, detect, investigate and prosecute criminal offences listed in the Directive. As far as the provision and processing of personal data of crew members is concerned, appropriate provisions on their protection are laid down for notification of the receipt and processing of the data, time limits and order of storage and access to the data, order of their destruction. There have also been amendments to the Civil Aviation Act, with the definition of the concept of passenger reserve data, which is currently contained in the Civil Aviation Act, set out in the State Agency Act. The Bill also establishes provisions improving the regulation of the Agency's activities and the status of its staff. Following the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, with 13 votes, is proposed by the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the State Agency Act No 802-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u111	Thank you, Mr. Kirchev. The report from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds will introduce us to the President of the Commission, Mr Vigenin. Mr. Vigenin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before presenting the opinion of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, I would just like to express our amazement that this bill has not been allocated to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. I think it is logical, when it comes to the State Agency, that this committee should also rule on it. In the future, please consider such bills in our view. [[The National Representative Dimitar Lazarov speaks away from the microphones.]] There is such a Commission, it is a leading one, no one disputes, Mr. Lazarov, your leading role, but as three committees are secondary, accompanying, it is also appropriate that this committee rule according to us. That's my opinion. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act on National Security, No 802-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 March 2018. At its regular meeting held on 25 April 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act on National Security, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The draft law was presented by Mr. Nikolay Nenkov Vice-President of the National Security Agency. Expert support for the presentation of the bill provided: Mrs. Tanya Miteva Karakas This bill aims to fully transpose Directive (EU) 2016/681 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the use of passenger reservation data to prevent, detect and investigate and prosecute terrorist offences and serious crimes (Directive (EU) 2016/681, OB, L 119, 04.05.2016). In 2016 in the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted and promulgated Law amending and supplementing the Law on State Agency "National Security" (DANS), which established a national legal framework for the order for obtaining reservation data of passengers in a country carried by air. The law governs a number of issues, including: the establishment of a National Unit for the reception and processing of data on passengers carried by air in the Republic of Bulgaria and the status of its manager; the activity of obtaining and processing of data by the National Unit; the administrative and criminal provisions for non-compliance with the obligations under the new Chapter 6th "Sixth"........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Law was developed on the basis of the draft Directive (EU) 2016/681 and was promulgated on 23 February 2016, before the entry into force of the Directive, which is why it did not introduce all the requirements of the Directive. This reason requires the current amendment and supplement of the Law. Mr. Lazarov explained the substance of the bill, so I am missing this part and I will introduce you to the discussion held in the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the decision accordingly. In the subsequent discussion Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Member of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, asked: what requires the introduction of texts that are outside the scope of the Directive, and also expressed observation that with the new texts the Agency is practically expanding its activities and it is very likely that its scope will enter into the competences of other services such as the State Agency. Mr. Christian Vigenin, Chairman of KEVKEF, expressed his surprise that the Law was made under the draft directive and now new changes are being imposed in order to fully transpose it. In this regard, he said that normal practice is to move towards a change in Bulgarian legislation when the directive has already been adopted and it is not right to do so on the basis of projects. He stressed that he does not accept the practice in Bulgarian legislation to introduce additional requirements that go beyond the scope of the Directive, such as those relating to the provision of flight crew data. He also asked: what does an exception to the competition for entering the Agency's service require, and who should determine whether the staff are fit and they do not go through the appropriate procedure? In this regard, he asked whether it would not turn out that other structures that are listed in the Bill will be easier to enter people who will later transfer to the SANS, although the filter in these structures is wider than the Agency. Mr. Nenkov explained that there is an exception from the competition beginning until now for the offices listed in the Law. The new changes also aim to extend the scope of such state departments to which the employees have already entered a competition procedure. He stressed that the current Law and the new procedures envisaged remain the internal order of the Agency, which is much more serious than the competition start for recruitment, and candidates will continue to go through the same strict procedure they have gone through so far. With regard to the Agency's additional activities and the revision of the texts, Ms. Ducheva explained that in the original version of the SANS Act, the provisions relating to the operation of the Cryptographic Security Authority and the Security Accreditation Authority were not written sufficiently clearly and this requires their current clarification. She explained that there are no new activities and practically refined texts regarding these activities, which DANS is currently carrying out. Mrs. Miteva Karakash added that the aim of the bill is to transpose the directive and, moreover, with regard to the activities which the Agency is currently carrying out, it is intended to make a clear wording because so far some of them have not been present in the Law, but only in the Rules for its Implementation. To the question of why the DANS Act on the draft directive has changed, Mrs Miteva-Karakash explained that the change has coincided and was made in connection with the implementation of the activities related to the establishment of the National Booking Data Receipt and Processing Unit. With regard to this Mrs. Ducheva clarified that one of the requirements for the construction of the unit was the establishment of a legal basis for its functioning, that is what forced the haste and amendment of the Law under the Draft Directive. With regard to the collection of crew data, Mr. Nankov explained that, according to their data, in some cases, crew members are also possible to participate in terrorist activity, and this is what requires the collection of their data as well. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 3 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u113	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Dear Members of Parliament, these were the reports received. I open the debates on the first vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the State Agency Act on National Security. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? The people's representative Ahmed Ahmedov has the floor. Here you are, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! To our attention, the Law amending and supplementing the State Agency Act is a logical extension of the debate on the use of passenger reservation data or so-called PNR records for the purposes of preventing, detecting, investigating and prosecuting terrorist and serious crimes. I will not comment on the need to use this data to counter increasingly globalizing organised crime and terrorism, the importer has described them quite thoroughly. Ladies and gentlemen, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support the proposed Law on Amendment and Supplement, but not just for the sake of necessity. We, as a liberal party, have another marker that is extremely important to us, namely the protection of personal data and privacy. It took several years to find the most appropriate balance of rights and obligations, so that European citizens, in our case, can be assured that their data will not be used for purposes other than those declared. The Liberals have left their serious footprint on the directive, and so today I can safely recommend not only to my colleagues from the "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" but also to the entire parliament to support the proposed Law on Amendment and Supplement, because the directive actually provides, apart from effectiveness in countering organised crime and terrorism, and the highest standard for protection of personal data and the privacy of citizens, a request which, as you can see from the Project, will also be applied to third countries with which we will eventually cooperate for data exchange. From 2010 to this day, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is a policy that we have consistently advocated that the fight against terrorism and organised crime and the protection of civil rights must go hand in hand. It is particularly important for us that the principle of non-discrimination in data collection and processing is fundamental and quite correctly transposed into the proposed Amendment and Supplement Act. If there is still concern in this House that the proposed Law on Amendment and Supplement will give many powers to the law enforcement authorities, I would like to assure you that not only the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is going to monitor closely the possible violations of the strict provisions of the Directive. The European Court of Justice has already had sufficient experience and competence in the field, as demonstrated by the court-martial rejection of the Data Exchange Agreement between the European Union and Canada. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u115	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any further comments? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u116	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, there must always be a balance between the protection of privacy, personal data and, of course, national security. In the directive on which the bill is based, it is tried to find this balance. However, the bill goes beyond this directive, extending the scope of the directive precisely with the request of aircraft crew data. We believe that this will rather lead to difficulties in implementing the Law, will lead to confusion and unnecessary data collection with regard to the crew of the aircraft itself, which, by the way, always goes through the relevant studies before becoming a flight crew. The competition start for employees in other departments is also cancelled and it is reserved for employees in the agency itself. When they want career development there is a competition. However, such exemptions shall be made for external departments where they are to be appointed to the Agency. At the same time, you all know that in order to become an employee of the National Security Agency, the requirements are very high, higher than those in other departments, studies, analyses of the person and employee, examinations, committees. I believe that this will lead to a reduction in human potential, of the quality of the people in the SANS and to an opportunity, figuratively speaking, of the leakage of human potential from other NSAs, which will also make their work difficult. These are mainly the reasons, of course, there are others, which is why we will refrain from supporting this bill at first reading. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u117	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? Mr. Velkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honored guests! I would like to refer to the proposal for amendments, amendment and supplement to the State Agency Act. Mr. Vigenin pointed out one good remark, in my opinion, that it was not assigned to view this Act of the Internal Security Commission. Well, Mr. Vigenin, he's not interested in the Commission, as you can see, but he should be... [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, I'm willing to do the math. Colleagues, I thank you for the noise, but I assume that the noise is not because you know what it is about - 99% of the people present have not read it, but because you respond to your leader's defence, it is good, although I would stress a great deal of the proposals and activities of the State Agency.National Security......................................................................................................................................... And I don't know why it's not distributed, I just agree with what we've heard here. We have also heard something else, and I would be delighted, dear Mr. Chairman, if you could give our guests a chance to see that Mr. Georgiev is here. We have heard here once again the concept of organized crime. If there is anyone in this room, including a lawyer, who can tell me in which legal document of our justice system is based this concept, I will be very pleased. I have also heard something else, honourable Mr President, honourable Members, that it has been taken into account in the booking data in that part which is called the Crew Service. That's how you suggested it, distinguished importers, not the crew service, the clarification is very important, the crew service and the crew service. Because the crew's needs include something quite different. These are data that the crew provides for flight parameters, metro stations, routes, navigations and so on, and the crew needs, clearly from what you are offering, refer to the full range of data on aircraft passengers. Now Mr. Nankov would say, "This is necessary." Why? Because one of the crew might be willing to commit terrorist activity. God has kept us from such a purpose. There is such a case, it happened in the subsidiary company of..Luffhanza two years ago, you remember it very well when a maniac who suffered from an obsession to hit the plane in the ground, here comes a pilot, I see, a German pilot smashed it in the French Alps, killed a lot of people. That was practically terrorism. What helped in the case that the German security services had the complete data of this man, including that he had been treated for a psychiatrist and had not passed the appropriate examinations? I'll go back to the booking data, but before that, I'd like to share my vision and ask a few questions. The first, in the proposal to create new paragraphs 2 to 4, in art. 6, we read the following:............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ I ask the question: why is this act not included in the proposal and also in the State Agency Act? What is the purpose in practice? That's the first one. Secondly, I would like to get an answer to the question.......................................... and the following proposal:..................................... Organizes communication systems, implements the exchange of information and the cryptographic security of this exchange information between the Republic of Bulgaria and its overseas representations, providing............................................................................................. Mr. Georgiev, at this point the dedicated ones, it is not a secret, they know that in the composition of our diplomatic, I stress the representations, and you propose to change diplomatic and consular, because overseas representations is a much wider concept. Our representation in Kabul and in the base of "Lindzi" is an external representation. Do you mean them? No, obviously not. Further on, with the exception of communication and exchange. I ask in this case: what necessary personnel should be sent to the overseas offices, except for those who are now there? If you are talking about the representatives of the Office of Communication, about the so-called communicators, there is one thing. If you're referring to those IT specialists who work in some major representations, you know who they are, for maintaining the relevant software and equipment, it's another thing, but if you're talking about returning employees and diplomatic cover to consular offices, what was there 30 years ago, and here I see a guy who's been working exactly this job and smiling a little bit, he's been working as a vice consul, I'm not going to tell you who he is, because if we're going to bring back second management, we once had this thing, this game we've played it, and I have to tell you that with too good results. There's nothing wrong with it, but show it to me. Therefore, I would say, honourable Members, when such proposals are made, not only should lawyers participate in the creation but also experts. Think about these issues. I'm moving on to the next question, namely the booking data. As a matter of fact, all of this has been done without regulation. As for the older employees, here I see one, it is known that this was done by second management and fourth management, Department of Transport Security, which was positioned even at Sofia airport. I agree that flights from the Republic of Bulgaria to the next point and from the next point to the Republic of Bulgaria may be requested and received by the air carrier if it decides to give them. It has to be refined here, because the air carrier can also be American Airlines. To see you then how we will ask them and how they will give it to us, because they are subordinate to other structures and have their own security units, as you know. It's understandable: the passengers are changing. The flight from Sofia to Tel Aviv is with some passengers, on the way back is with other passengers and they can proceed under the threat to national security. But why is it that the same data is required for the crew? Isn't the crew the same? This crew has been through the drastic inspection and continues to pass, it is constantly being investigated. In my opinion, this is a type of reinsurance and goes on the verge of violating the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. I don't see what that would bring, except there might be some kind of negative reaction. Dear importers, in the current existing, existing SANS Act after the expiration of three months of the transfer of the reservation data to passengers, I stress again, and the crew data from the air carriers, the national unit depersonalises by concealing the data under art. 42b in the corresponding points. You now want this to be six months. Perhaps you can explain why six months and why you are changing the term "depersonalize by disguise" with the term "depersonalize by masking"? Colleagues, let's be clear that concealing is one concept, disguise, including operational, is a third concept, depersonalizing the document is something else entirely. And a little later what you say: the national unit can provide national units with Member States of the European Union and other data stored by it that are not depersonalized by concealment, as well as the results of their processing. What's the basis for this? Let's give them to another national desk without them being covered, without being depreciated, if you will. So there are a lot of questions, and that is why I am telling you that I will recommend to my colleagues, most of them probably have not read the proposal for a law, especially in these heavy volumes of many pages, to refrain from voting, support until we have an adequate answer to these questions. [[Noise.]] Do not forget, since we have enough time, I would like to ask the representatives of the importers about the concept of strategic sites and strategic activities. They are described precisely and clearly in Decree No 181 of the Council of Ministers. There are shown strategic sites of national security importance and strategic activities that are carried out in them. [[Reply by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] I hear Mr. Tsvetanov replicated me. Mr. Chairman, please make a note to him. [[noise and lines]] Since I'm not going to say anything new, he's obviously not a specialist in this matter. [[GERB lines.]] It is known, of course, perhaps a specialist in reasoned assumptions, but not on this. [[Reply by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u119	Mr. Velkov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u120	I would just like to remind you to tell me what this concept is that you are offering, the informational protection of strategic zones, strategic sites and areas related to the implementation of strategic activities. In my opinion, this is a misunderstanding for those who have prepared the document. [[Noise.]] There are strategic sites, there are strategic activities. It turned out, as you recall, on March 3rd, and it was reported precisely by the SANS that one part of the CEZ and the work it does are strategic, but CEZ itself is not a strategic object of national security importance. In my opinion, the document needs to be seriously refined, cleared of what warrants a double approach, a misunderstanding, and then imported. Once again, such concepts as the crew service and the crew service are quite different concepts. If anyone wants to come here on the stand and give me a cue and give me a unique opportunity to duplicate it. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u121	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Your first question of substance or anonymity was addressed to me. You will therefore allow me to remind you that the President is the man who, on the basis of the Rules, distributes the bills and other material on committees. He doesn't have to take into account whether a committee wants to or doesn't want to deal with a bill. In this case, I've signed the distribution. I have taken note of the fact that the Commission for Control of the Services is the lead, and so I have decided. That's the distribution. Any lines to Mr. Velkov? There are no lines. [[Noise and lines.]] As you can see, there are no lines, Mr. Velkov. [[Reply from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov.]] I'm sorry too. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u122	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Security Agency! I will call on colleagues from GERB, from the ruling majority, patriots, to support the Law as it was in the Commission, where it was considered. I'm talking about the Services Control Commission. Yeah, there were no questions asked. There have been questions asked in the other committees. From the reports, I have seen that these questions are answered quite thoroughly. I'm not going to dwell on the subject of a terrorist act, the signs of a terrorist act, should it be a direct idea, should it be an indirect act? There are enough examples. The competent people who monitor the media, you see messages from other services about motor vehicle transport incidents, accept that it is not a terrorist act, but I have no intention of giving a theme to people who seem to be easily handling terms of terrorism, which is not terrorism. The purpose of this law is also prevention, data exchange. Colleagues who travel more often now see how at airports, thanks to this law, which we adopted a few years ago, entry and exit is getting much faster because data are being obtained in advance. In addition to terrorism, there is also talk of organised crime, human trafficking, drug trafficking. I do not believe that there is a violation of the rights of the crew members, if and with regard to them, the SANS, in response to the questions asked in the other committees, have justified it. However, we are adopting national legislation, and the minimum in one national law is what a directive obliges us to do. Colleagues, why do I see that a question has been raised before this directive is adopted? Then let's change the Constitution if we have to. Make a proposal, honourable Members, not to adopt any other laws until there is a relevant directive or any other binding act, any convention by the European Union. Yes, we do not want our national legislation to be distinguished. Yes, we have the right, and we do so, to amend the laws before a directive or convention becomes a fact. In the same way, we have dealt with the Criminal Code on Terrorism, because this word is mentioned in terms of logistics, the theft of motor vehicles that can serve terrorism, document crimes, training for terrorism and so on, before the directive comes to light. So, what, wait for the directive to become a fact that has been discussed for a long time? Yes, we adopted these texts in our Penal Code and then they became a fact in the directive. Then let us wait for some directive, some binding act or international convention to pass the Law on Counterterrorism. It appears almost that our national legislation should be governed only by some binding acts. My fellow Members, I recommend that the bill be adopted. Between first and second readings, if anyone has any proposals, no matter how he voted against, he has every reason to make proposals for changes, technical editorials. The law is necessary, the law is important. As far as the speeches about the competition start are concerned. There are other laws. There is a law which has been passed and no one has ever proposed amendments to it concerning the services of the national security system. I do not see anyone here who would argue that the selection in the DAR or in the Military Information....would be at a much lower level or quality so that an employee of the DAR or Military Information would not be able to pass without a contest at the DANS. It is explicitly stated in the Law that yes, there will be no competition, but in order to pass one such person or civil servant, as it is for other civil servants, must meet absolutely all the requirements and criteria and enter into the SANS, and from the SANS to enter the DAR, or from the DAR to enter the National Security Service. Let's not forget that there are other activities in these services. They're not just the insurance, intelligence activities and so on. There are other activities. Thank you. I call on my fellow Members to support the Law, and who has observations, objections, to make them between first and second readings. Let me remind you that we are at first reading and discuss the basic principles of this bill, not its details.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u123	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. - What's the line? Mr. Velkov and Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Mr. Lazarov, for giving me the opportunity to reply, rather provokes me to a line. Mr. Lazarov, there is no doubt that the Law is necessary and that these changes are necessary and modern, meet the requirements of the changed security environment and the increased challenges facing it. It is another matter here that the proposals should comply with the requirements for drawing up such a document. It doesn't matter, you're right, whether the directive or the Law, one was adopted before or after. We are talking about another.. that the proposals go beyond the scope of the Directive. And since you reminded me to ask something very important, maybe the importers will say. Why, when we are going to the option of the "Reservation data of passengers and crews" we forget to go to the option of the "Reservation data of the road transport" in the sense of the bus which, as is known, travels in the most risky directions, including passengers, including drivers and stewards? It is known that terrorist acts with heavy machinery, buses, vans and so on are increasingly being carried out in the context of modern urban terrorism. Why is this going beyond our reach? And we're only going to air transport. It's inexplicable to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u125	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u126	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Lazarov! You said with regard to the competitions and requirements of the State Agency......... Military information........................................................................................... No one is arguing about the severe demands for service there, but in para. 8 is recorded: State officials at the Ministry of Interior, Ministry of Defence, Public Order Services. You know how many civil servants are and what are the requirements, say, in the Ministry of Defence and those in the State Intelligence Agency, in the SANS as well? There are big differences. The other thing that is, I ask myself, first, the budget of the State Agency "Research" you know that it is one of the lowest compared to our neighbouring countries, it is very small, almost not growing annually. At the same time, here with this law we see the disclosure and giving opportunity to the State Agency of Intelligence for new financial appointments abroad. I wonder what will happen in the near, medium-term future with the State Intelligence Agency in this situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u127	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Lazarov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u128	Dear Mr. Chairman, I was hesitant to make a duplicate, but I'll be very brief. If anyone is willing, let him propose a mechanism for, I do not know whether the exact term is the reserve data at the land border or the seaside to make the mechanism how I or my colleague Hicks, if he decides to go out for Serbia at the moment, and how would it be obtained, who would state these reservation data? It seems that some colleagues have not read, do not know the essence and cannot understand or perhaps understand, I hope it is the latter, but simply submit false information. We are talking about preliminary data of those who have been submitted and the carriers of the air carriers are obliged to provide in advance, with a view to prevention and possible further disclosure. However, colleagues may offer some kind of data on those who travel along the land border. Maybe some organ will set up preliminary requests and so on? It's okay, we'll talk about it. We'll discuss it, we'll debate it, there's no harm in it. Members of Parliament from all parliamentary groups are entitled, each of them, to a legislative initiative and I am also inclined to discuss it. Yes, this question has been put, in a slightly different aspect, which is in this law, but will be the subject between first and second votes. Yeah, there's something about that law. But whoever read it read it, he knows what it's about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u129	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u130	It's a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u131	You weren't mentioned. [[Heckling]] You've recognized each other. Here you go. I'm just gonna ask you for the personal explanation...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I recognized myself in what Mr. Lazarov said. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I'm not reading, I'm not knowing, I'm unable. Now, let me tell Mr. Lazarov, who reads a lot, and Mr. Tsvetanov, who rubs his forehead. [[Laughter]] that international bus transport has a reservation system with passenger data and that data can be received by the carrier at any time prior to the journey or, if you want, after the journey! We're talking data from stewards and drivers. Please, Mr. Lazarov, if you don't know, go to Sofia bus station and see if there is someone in international transportation who can get a ticket without asking for an identity document for abroad! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u133	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Any other speeches? I won't. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u134	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I think the debate has shifted a bit. I would like to remind my fellow Members on the left that we are looking at legislative changes which are related to meeting the criteria of both European legislation and to have the relevant preventive action that our counterintelligence services must carry out. And when we talk about passenger reservation data, perhaps those who have an interest in this matter will read Europol's latest reports and see that we actually have new challenges, and what is related to terrorism, to organised crime, terrorist acts that have been in Europe and the United States since 2001, have given birth to the idea that these passenger reservation data can actually be extended and the list of individuals who can assist in preparing an in-depth analysis in order to have a precautionary activity I believe that the eighty-something and which is the second main, fourth mainly, I think this is so untenable as a topic and what the entire European Union is discussing today... Just to remind you that 2011 on the topic of the European Commission and the United States had a lot of reservations in the Member States of the European Union. After the Arab Spring, after everything that is like changing the global security environment, very quickly after the adoption of this Agreement, each country has started talking about the European PNR, started talking about the exchange of data and thus being able to be adequate to everything that has been happening over the past few months. I will stop here because for me it is unclear why this debate was not essentially held in the specialized commission of Dimitar Lazarov? Because in Dimitar Lazarov's committee there were absolutely no statements from the opposition! And today there were so many who were developed, which could indeed have been challenged by the experts who attended the meeting by the State Agency for National Security. I would simply call on my colleagues from the State Agency to avoid being involved, because the debate has shifted in another direction, and we must vote on a bill. Here is Dr Daritkova, who also said that there are very important things to be voted on in today's parliament programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u135	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. The line, Mr. Velkov. [[(Noise and ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u136	The reaction, dear Mr. Chairman, reminds us of a call for some flock to be brought forth with this............................................................................................... [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u137	I interpreted it as liking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u138	Let me say, dear Mr. Tsvetanov, I'm completely solidarity with you! We need such changes. That's the challenge, I'd say they're knocking on the door. Even unlike you, when you are asked by the responsible politicians, you say: "There is no threat, I will say that the threat is real and not virtual. But still, thank God, it's potential. Where do those terrorists come from in the Middle East area? Are they traveling in luxury planes? They're looking for exactly this way, if they're traveling with something, it's by road transport. What's wrong with what I'm offering you?! And what's wrong with cleaning it up?! I was absent from the Commission meeting, Mr. Lazarov was warned, which did not prevent me from reviewing the proposal several times. I was burying my friend, he knows, I told him, at exactly 2:30 on that day. So I couldn't be there. That doesn't mean I'm not on the subject, on the contrary, I think I've prepared myself seriously enough. And this appeal by Mr. Tsvetanov to the management of the National Security Agency is puzzling me! I think, Mr. Tsvetanov, that this cannot be defined in any other way than political pressure! Thank you. [[Voices: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u139	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Any other lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the State Agency Act with No 802-01-9, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 133 MPs: for 93, against 2, abstention 38. The offer is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u140	Honourable President, I ask you to put to the vote an extension by two more weeks of the deadline for proposals between the first and second votes of the newly adopted Bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u141	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I will put to the vote the proposal made to extend the time limit to be considered procedurally. They voted 132 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. The next item in the Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PROTECTION OF CHEMICAL INGREDIENTS AND MESSAGES. Importer is the Council of Ministers. There is a summary report from the Environment and Water Commission. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! "COMMERCIAL REPORT" to the Committee on the Environment and Waters on the First Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2018 and the Draft Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. At a meeting held on 26 April 2018, the Committee on Environment and Water examined, at first reading, a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2018 and a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. The meeting was attended by: From the Ministry of Environment and Waters: Krasimir Zhivkov From the Ministry of Economy: Lachezar Borisov "Deputy Minister." From the Ministry of Defence: General Atanas Zapreyanov "Deputy Minister," and Andoneta Yakimova "State Expert in the Legal and Normal Directorate." And by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry: Dr. Dimitar Dimitrov, State Expert at the Department of Agriculture and Forestry. On behalf of the importer, the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2018 and the reasons for its introduction were presented by Mr Zhivkov, who indicated that the Bill was proposed as regards the need to introduce implementing measures for implementing the obligations arising from Regulation (EU) No 2017/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 on mercury and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1102/2008 on the prohibition on the export of metal mercury and certain mercury compounds and mixtures and the safe storage of metal mercury. The Deputy Minister noted that the control powers of the Minister of Environment and Water regarding the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 2017/852 (except measures relating to the protection of human health) and introduced measures and conditions concerning restrictions on imports of mercury and mixtures of mercury; ban on exports of certain mercury added products; the use of mercury in certain production processes; new uses of mercury in products and production processes and the use of mercury in hand and small-scale gold mining. He added that the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Draft Law provided for amendments to the Environmental Protection Act and the Waste Management Act. The amendments to the Environmental Protection Act are necessary in order to repeal the implementing measures of Regulation (EC) No 1102/2008 on the prohibition of exports of metallic mercury and certain mercury compounds and mixtures and the safe storage of metallic mercury, which is repealed as from 1 January 2018, and the amendments to the Waste Management Act are necessary in order to introduce penalties relating to the violation of the provisions on the management of mercury waste. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Zhivkov stressed that the introduction of measures and conditions for the implementation of Regulation (EU) No 2017/852 on mercury is an additional tool to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment from human and aquatic emissions and releases of mercury and mercury compounds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u143	Mrs. Vassileva, may I interrupt for a moment? Colleagues, I do not dispute your right to exchange views on the text, but I ask you to ensure sufficient silence to hear the Commission's summary report. Thank you. Please continue, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u144	It announced that the proposed bill is not expected to have a direct impact on the state budget, with public consultation and coordination with other departments under the required procedure, with reasoned comments being reflected in the Bill, including those from the Ministry of Health. On behalf of the importer of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018 and the reasons for its introduction were presented by Mr. Lachezar Borisov. He explained that the Council of Ministers in parallel amends the same Law through two different laws due to different competence of the responsible departments. He explained that the co-owners were together with the Ministry of Defence, and noted that a large part of the bills introduced by the Ministry of Economy were related to reducing the administrative burden. In this case, it is a bill which is simultaneously linked to the synchronization of European legislation and to the reduction of administrative burdens. Mr. Borisov explained that it is about synchronization with Regulation of the European Parliament No 1907 of 2006 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals (REAS). In certain cases, it allows certain chemical substances on their own, in mixtures or in articles where it is necessary to be exempted from appropriate regimes where it is in the interest of defence. The proposed Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law provides for the exemption from obligations arising from the Regulation to be carried out by issuing authorisations and the competent authority to issue authorisations is the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. This is also the body that issues licenses to companies that trade in possible dual-use goods related to defence. Mr. Borisov explained that the Bill described the obligations of the persons who will receive the permissions for exemption by introducing administrative-criminal liability in the event of non-compliance. It is also intended to have a regulation on the work to be issued by the Council of Ministers, and sanctions are also provided for those who do not comply with their commitments. The provisions are in accordance with the Defence Exemption Code under that Regulation. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister, who announced that the submitted bill creates a national procedure for the derogation of certain units of the REASON Regulation for defence purposes. He added that, first of all, there is the protection of the secret of certain military supplies and explosives that we have in our army and, secondly, the technological secret of production is kept, for defence purposes, by the Bulgarian defence industry of certain fighting devices, and this derogation does not in any way reduce the care for health and the environment. Mr. Zaprianov noted that, unfortunately, Bulgaria has not taken advantage of it so far and that there are exceptions from it, as a result of which our companies and operators are obliged with great bureaucratic requirements to fill out information and thus may leak information about their technologies. The Deputy Minister added that there are criteria that will be met for the application of the derogation under the RESEC Regulation, in the interest of defence and that there are substances that cannot be replaced, simply they are part of the technological process. In conclusion, he noted that the Ministry of Defence believes that this bill is in the interest of both the defence of the country and our defence industry. Deputy Minister Zhivkov of the Ministry of Environment and Water announced that they support the bill, have no contradictions and have agreed in the procedure for this. After the discussion and the vote, the Committee on the Environment and Water: First, with 18 votes for the non-opposed and abstentions, unanimously supported the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2018 and Second, with 18 votes for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No 802-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2018 and a Draft Law on amendment and supplement to the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No. 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u145	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. This was the summary report of the Committee on the Environment and Water for the two bills. Moving on to the next report is not summarized, it is only to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-11, of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you are, Mr. Alexandrov, to present the two reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No 802-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2018. At its regular meeting on 25 April 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister of Environment and Water Krasimir Zhivkov. The Bill introduces our national legislation in accordance with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 2017/852 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 17 May 2017 on mercury and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1102/2008. Regulation (EU) No 2017/852 provides for measures and establishes conditions for the use, storage and trade of mercury, mercury compounds and mixtures of mercury as well as the production and use of mercury added products and the management of mercury waste in order to ensure a high level of protection of human and environmental health. The measures provided for in the Minamata Convention on Mercury shall be supplemented by the general objectives in line with the Community Strategy on Mercury, and many of the possibilities for reducing its use have already been used. The Law defines the control powers of the Minister of Environment and Water; restrictions on the import of mercury and mixtures of mercury are introduced; the export of certain mercury added products, the use of mercury in certain production processes and others is prohibited. In the area of competence of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the provisions of § 13, 19 and 21 of the Draft Law, which sign up obligations, control functions and powers of the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection, or officials authorised by him. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u147	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Please provide the next report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u148	Thank you. ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 25 April 2018, examined and discussed the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-13. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Economy Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister, and Giulieta Nikova Jr. at the Department of Technology Harmonization and Consumer Policy. from the Ministry of Defence. The Ministry of Defence. Mr. Anatoly Velichkov. Deputy Minister, Andoneta Yakimova. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lachezar Borisov and Deputy Minister Anatoly Velichkov. According to importers, the purpose of the proposed bill is to establish a national procedure for authorising exemptions from the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 for certain chemical substances on their own, in mixtures or in articles where necessary in the interest of defence. The introduction of the procedure is in line with the objectives set out in the Defence Exemption Code under the REACH Regulation of the European Defence Agency. The aim is for Member States applying the exemption to have similar national procedures and criteria establishing an interest in defence. The draft provides for the authorisation to exempt from the requirements of the REACH Regulation to be issued by the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. The authorisation granted should also contain the measures to be applied by the holder of the authorisation to prevent or limit the harmful effects on human health and the environment. The administrative and financial burden for the Bulgarian defence industry will be reduced. There is a risk of judicial challenge by economic operators from the defence industry of refusals to grant exemptions under Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 to certain substances. The benefit of the adoption of the Bill is indisputable, in so far as the risks to defence, in the absence of a procedure for exemption from certain requirements under the REACH Regulation, are repeatedly greater than the risk of legal challenge of refusals to grant authorisations. A partial preliminary impact assessment as well as those required under art. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. After a vote with results: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u149	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. The next report is the Defence Committee on a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. Here you go, Mr. General. You have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u150	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe the Committee on Defence on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. At a regular meeting held on 26 April 2018, the Defence Committee examined for a first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. There were 18 MPs present. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov, Atanas Valchanov, expert at the Department of Planning, Programming and Budget and Andoneta Yakimova, expert at the Department of Legal and Normal Activities. The Chairman of the Defence Committee, Konstantin Popov, pointed out that the draft proposed the introduction of a national procedure for exemption from obligations under Regulation (EC) No 1907/2006 on the Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals where necessary in the interest of defence. The introduction of such a procedure is provided for in the Regulation. The aim of the procedure is to prevent the negative effect on the sector of defence from directly implementing the regulation, while introducing mechanisms to protect human health and the environment. The bill was presented on behalf of the importers by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov. It has been noted that the provisions of the Bill are in line with the Defence Exemption Code under the REACH Regulation of the European Defence Agency to which the Republic of Bulgaria has joined. The Code aims to ensure that Member States applying the exemption have similar national procedures and criteria establishing an interest in defence. The Bill also lays down national criteria establishing cases of interest for defence. The draft provides for the authorisation to exempt from the requirements of the REACH Regulation to be issued by the Inter-agency Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers. The order, conditions and time limits for granting the authorisation, as well as the requirements for preventing or limiting the harmful effects on human health and the environment, which the authorised person should comply with, as well as the information which he maintains and provides to the Interdepartmental Council on Defence Industry and Security of Supply to the Council of Ministers, will be regulated by a regulation of the Council of Ministers. It has been highlighted that the Bill will guarantee national defence interests, while ensuring a sufficient level of protection of human health and environmental protection. National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov expressed support for the proposed bill and noted that it is a step towards introducing a European regulation that is also in the interest of defence. In the subsequent vote, 18 votes for the defence committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u151	Thank you, Mr. General. We are moving on to the debates of our presented bills. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'd just like to say this. Dear General Popov, in matters of national interest, which are a priority, should be dealt with in this way. To tell my colleagues to call them: we will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u153	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We'll move on to the vote. I will put the two bills to a separate vote. Firstly, we are voting on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes, No 802-01-11, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 5 April 2018. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. Sustained. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on protection against the harmful effects of chemicals and mixtures, No 802-01-13, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 17 April 2018. They voted 117 MPs: 117, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted. The next item on the agenda is: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LEGISLATION LAW AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR STATE ESTRUCTURING. Importers: People's Representative Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs presents the national representative Danail Kirilov. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Gazette, No 854-01-24, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2018. At its meeting held on 25 April 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the quoted bill. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs Daritkova, who pointed out that the amendments proposed that the annexes to the regulation and international contracts should be promulgated only on the website of the Official Gazette to the number of the newspaper in which the relevant act was published. The publication of the website of the Official Gazette is intended to have the same legal meaning as the publication in a printed edition of the Official Journal. Ms Daritkova noted that the change is mainly required by the huge number of applications to the National Framework Contracts for Medical and Dental Activities, which are promulgated in additions, and contracts between the Ministry of Health and the National Assembly are concluded for the preparation and printing of the supplement, as well as between the National Assembly and a contractor to print the supplement. The Bill aims to ensure that the annexes are published in a shorter time and to ensure authenticity of the text by facilitating the process of printing the attachments to the Official Journal. With the publication of the website of the Official Journal, a high level of awareness of medical institutions will be provided. It is also proposed that the amendment of the Law be in force for the Annexes to the National Framework Treaties for 2018 because they are already published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 26 and 28 from 2018 The discussion was attended by the MPs Pencho Milkov, Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev. All Members of the National Assembly agreed that the amendments to the bill were necessary and should be supported. Mr. Milkov paid attention to the current editorial of art. 6 on the removal of the words After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 17 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement of the Law on the State Gazette, No 850 01-24, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 20 April 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u155	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Dr. Daritkova, please come in for the first vote report of the Committee on Health.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Gazette, No 854-01-24, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2018. At its regular meeting held on 26 April 2018, the Committee on Health examined and discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Gazette. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva, representatives of word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and others. The bill and its motives were presented by one of the importers, Dr. Daniela Daritkova. It aims to establish a legal regulation on a change in the manner of promulgation of annexes to a regulation which are promulgated in additions to the relevant number of the Official Journal. The annexes to a regulation, including international treaties, if provided for in the Act, are intended to be promulgated as a supplement only on the website of the State Gazette. The publication of the website of the Official Journal will have the same legal meaning as the publication in the printed edition of the newspaper. The proposed amendments have been dictated by the large number of pages, about 4000 to 6000 over the years, the annexes to the National Framework Contracts for Medical Activities and the dental activities that are promulgated in appraits. The supplement is currently not published on the website of the Official Journal, although it is an integral part of the contracts, but is printed in a minimum circulation of 50 pieces, which is insufficient for the number of medical establishments in the country. The expected result of the adoption of the Bill is ensuring a high level of awareness of the medical institution, as well as stability in the application of the annexes. In the course of the discussion the Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Zheny Nacheva pointed out that the Ministry of Health fully supports the bill. She added that the proposed regulatory changes will lead to better discipline in the conclusion of individual contracts between regional health insurance funds and medical and dental aid contractors. Prof. Ilko Getov, Chairman of the Management Board of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, also expressed support on the draft law under consideration and made a proposal on the information and technical implementation of the proposed changes, namely: the apps to be published on the website of the Official Journal, to be able to be stored as information by users on the website of the newspaper. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the State Gazette, No 854 01-24, submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2018................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u157	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Now I'm going to ask you as an importer to present the bill. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I hope this will be the next bill on our agenda, which will be supported by all MPs, because also in the proposal we have made, have participated with their signatures MPs from all parliamentary groups. I believe that the proposal that we have made will solve a long-standing problem with the publication of the annexes to the National Framework Treaty, which has created a problem for medical aid contractors in getting acquainted with an authentic source of information regarding their regulated obligations, which are mainly described in the annexes to the framework contracts. So far, with the publication of the framework contract, the annexes were lag behind this date by about three months, because, as you have already heard, the volume of information to be applied in the annexes of the Official Gazette is large. It's about information on 24 apps, about 4,000 to 6,000 pages. The limited number of additions does not allow the large number of hospitals to have a reliable and authentic source of what the annexes to the framework contracts contain. Therefore, the main MPs who supported this bill are precisely from the Committee on Health. We were looking for the correct terminology to replace the current text of art. 6 of the Law on the State Gazette. We have therefore come to the conclusion that we will only be betting on an application to a regulatory act, including international treaties, if provided for in the act, because the existing terminology created a legal opportunity for the State Gazette to issue a limited edition supplement in which to publish bulky international treaties. We believe that this term only applies to the legal act, if it explicitly states that it fulfils the objective laid down in our bill, because it is mainly as an annex to the Official Journal of the European Union from the verification that we have done, the annexes to national framework contracts are published. We believe that such a change will make it possible with the same legal significance for all medical aid contractors to familiarize themselves with the publication of the contract with all the requirements that concern their work. This is also in the interest of Bulgarian patients. It is very important that we adopt this change in due time because the 2018 Framework Treaty has already been published in the Official Journal of the European Union. 26 " 28 " of this year. In this regard, it will be very useful to have the annexes to the Framework Treaty on the website soon so that medical aid contractors can have them in a timely manner.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u159	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. I'm opening the debate on our presented bill. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Velkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u160	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u161	Procedure. Mr. Velkov, we have a procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. [[Radio.]] I'd just like to ask Dr. Daritkova which framework contract are we talking about? Isn't it that framework contract that Deputy Prime Minister Goranov proposed to the Bulgarian Medical Union not to sign until the debts of the NHIF were known, which you didn't think Dr. Daritkova had, and it turns out there is now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u163	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u164	And I can tell you, Associate Professor Ivanov, that the first court order has already come from one of the four German health insurance cases, which are asking our legal firms to handle the legal collection of debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u165	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. I was just about to ask you to stick to the subject. Mr. Kirilov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u166	Mr. President, I would like a procedure to extend plenary time until the debate with all the votes on this bill has been completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u167	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made to extend plenary time until all votes on this bill have been completed. Vote 120 MPs: 110 against 4, abstention 6. The offer is accepted. We continue with speeches. I don't see any requests for speeches. I will put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the State Gazette, No 854-01-24, submitted by the National Representative Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and a group of MPs on 20 April 2018. They voted 123 MPs: for 123, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. We're continuing with the procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u168	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am proposing by procedure on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, to move to the second vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Gazette. In the previous speeches, there were no applications for proposals between first and second readings, and what I mentioned as an opinion of my colleague Milkov was clarified in the debate in the Legal Commission, including with the participation of the Director of the Directorate of Education and References to the National Assembly, and we reached a consensus that the proposed version clearly distributes the types of additions that would be published on the website of the State Gazette in this order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u169	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I shall put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal that has just been made. Vote 126 MPs: 125, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. We move on to a second vote on the Bill. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u170	THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Law on the State Gazette § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. The second sentence is finally added to the list except in the cases referred to in Article 2. § 2. Article 6 is amended as follows: Art. 6. Annexes to a regulation, including to international treaties, if provided for in the act, shall be promulgated only on the website of the Official Journal of the European Union to the number of newspapers in which the relevant act is promulgated. The publication of the website of the Official Journal has the same legal meaning as the publication in a printed edition of the Official Journal. § 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, p. 1 words as well as the attachments thereto shall be deleted. § 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 3 shall be added at the end except in the cases referred to in Article 3. Transitional and final provisions § 5. In the Health Insurance Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 54, para. 7 is finally added as the Annexes to the LDC, where provided for in the contract, shall be promulgated as a supplement only on the website of the Official Journal. § 6. The Annexes to the National Framework Contracts for 2018 under art. 54, para. 1 and 2 of the Health Insurance Act, submitted until the entry into force of this promulgation law in the Official Journal of the European Union, are promulgated only on the website of the State Gazette. § 7. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-05-03.u171	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: the name of the law....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Vote 119 MPs: 118, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Honourable Members of Parliament, Parliamentary Control Communication on 4 May 2018, Friday: The Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer three questions from the MPs Menda Stoyanova, Evgenia Angelova and Dimitar Glauchev; Dimitar Danchev; and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and one question from the MPs Daniela Saveklieva, Krasen Krastev, Dimitar Glauchev and Evgenia Angelova. Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer sixteen questions from MPs Devdet Chakarov and Hayri Sadakov; Georgi Tarnovalyski [[two questions]] ; Sevim Ali; Philip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Tanner Ali; Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Manol Genov; Dora Yankova [[two questions]] ; Atanas Stoyanov; Stoyan Mirchev; Valentin Lambev; Nikolay Tishev; Lubomir Bonev; and Lubomir Bonev and Dimitar Danchev. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer two questions from the MPs Dimitar Danchev; and Rumen Georgiev and one question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Rumen Georgiev and Chavdar Velinov. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Ivo Hristov; Irena Anastasova [[two questions]] ; and Yordan Mladenov. The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer three questions from the MPs Iglika Ivanova-Subeva, Yordanka Fikirliyska and Maria Ilieva; Anna Alexandrova, Altimir Adamov and Kiril Kalfin; and Nikolay Tishev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question from the National Representative Manol Genov; and to a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Dora Yankova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov; and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to five questions with written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova; Ivan Dimov Ivanov; Georgi Stoilov [[two questions]] ; and Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to three questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; Violeta Zheleva, Nadya Klisurska-Zekova and Pencho Milkov; and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva; and to one question written by the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to four questions from the MPs Georgi Yordanov, Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Timchev; Tasco Ermenkov, Nikolay Penev and Georgi Yordanov; Vasil Antonov; and Georgi Mihailov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question from the National Representative Boris Yachev; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova, one question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev, Ivelina Vassileva, Ivan Valkov, Diana Savateva, Galya Vasileva and Asya Peeva. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - two questions from the MPs Atanas Tashkov, Alexander Matsurev, Dimitar Gechev and Hristo Gajev; and Ivelina Vasileva, Galya Vasileva, Dimitar Lazarov and Andrian Raykov to Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev; - a question from the MP Desislava Atanasova to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov; - a question from the MP Dragomir Stoinev to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov; - a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva and Interior Minister Valentin Radev will not participate. Next regular plenary session on 4 May 2018 at 9:00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
