ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Program for the work of the National Assembly for 14 February 2018: 1. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act. The representatives were Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs on 3 November 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 20 December 2017. 2. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Aid Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 January 2018. The first vote was adopted on 31 January 2018. 3. A bill for ratification of the acts of XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2017. 4. New discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on sowing and planting material, adopted at the National Assembly on 24 January 2018, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 25 of 1 February 2018 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria? 1st for Thursday, 15 February 2018. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. Point 2 for Thursday, 15 February 2018 6. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Importer is the Council of Ministers, on 20 December 2017. Point three for Thursday. 7. Parliamentary control at 9:00 p.m. Please vote. They voted 154 MPs: 120, none, 34 abstentions. The motion is accepted. On the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that the Law on Electronic Communications Networks and Physical Infrastructure enter for second reading as point fourth for today. Importers were Volen Siderov and a group of MPs on 28 July 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 12 October 2017. Please vote. They voted 153 MPs: 132 against 1, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 7 February 2018 to 13 February 2018: Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the Study of the Establishment, Functioning and Security of the Bulgarian excise centralized Information System (BACIS) of the Customs Agency. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. A bill to ratify the Kigali Amendment to the Montreal Portal on substances that deplete the ozone layer. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. A bill to amend and supplement the Forest Act. Bringers are Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Agriculture is the lead. Messages: On 9 February 2018, the Council of Ministers submitted to the National Assembly a Report on the implementation of the activities of the measures for overcoming the demographic crisis in the Republic of Bulgaria by the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. The report was prepared in accordance with point 3 of the National Assembly Decision of 17 November 2017, adopted in connection with the discussions on the questions of the National Representative Georgi Gokov, addressed to the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on the policy for solving the demographic problems of the country. The material is sent to the MPs at their e-mail addresses and is available at the Library of the National Assembly. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that for the period from 12 February 2018 to 15 May 2018 a joint Bulgarian-American training will be held in the area of the joint Bulgarian-American facility The preparation is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and exercises in the country and abroad in 2018 and is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military actions conducted by other (other country or organisation) armed forces. The notification was received on 13 February 2018. No 803-09-8 and granted to the Defence Committee. In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of a non-military nature up to 20 soldiers from engineering formations of the Republic of Romania, Croatia and Georgia for the period from 15 May to 19 May 2018. The visit of foreign persons is related to participation in a joint command and command exercise in the military formation in Plovdiv by the composition of the Land Forces. Only personnel from those countries will participate in the exercise, without equipment and weapons. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, the relevant competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 13 February 2018. No 803-09-9 and granted to the Defence Committee. The National Statistical Institute has received information about consumer surveillance on January 2018, indexes of turnover in the section of the Department of Retail Trade, excluding trade in cars and motorcycles in December 2018; indexes of industrial production in December 2017; indexes of construction production in December 2017; employed persons and average wage in the fourth quarter of 2017. The materials are available to the National Representatives in the Library of the National Assembly. The Law on the ratification of a Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the Secretary of State of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual support through the exchange of air transport services and air force activities (ATARES) and of a Technical Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual support through the exchange of transport services on the surface for the provision of activities of armed forces (SEFS). Once acquainted with the transcript of the plenary session, it has been found that the name of the bill is not put to the vote by a second vote, but only a single member of the bill. In relation to the above, I second vote on the name of the bill, which reads as follows: A draft for the ratification of a Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the Secretary of State of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning mutual support through the exchange of air transport services and air force activities (ATARES) and the Technical Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual support through the exchange of surface transport services for the provision of activities of the Armed Forces. Please vote. Vote 157 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 29. The motion is accepted. We move on to the first item of today's agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE HEALTH LAW. The representatives are Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs on 3 November 2017, adopted at the first vote on 20 December 2017. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! On 13 February 2018, the leadership of BSP distributed its position to Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, in which he condemned the conduct of Lukovmarsh. At the same time, the position indicated that the 1945 People's Court was a necessary and inevitable wartime justice. Later in the day, the leadership of the Socialists differed from the thesis relating to the so-called People's Court, pointing out that in its decision it did not discuss an assessment of it and the author of this finding expressed his personal opinion. At the same time, the author was not mentioned and it is not clear yet who he is. Two weeks ago, while the Bulgarian Parliament paid tribute to the thousands who died after the coup of 9 September 1944, representatives of BSP boycotted and tried to sabotage their commemoration and tribute with a minute of silence. This disgraceful act is a symptom of lack of basic human compassion for the innocent victims of political terror, because paying tribute is not an act of recognition only to those killed on 1 February 1944, but also to the thousands who lost their lives in the months before and in the years after that date just because of their political beliefs. On January 23, 2018, BSP requested the resignation of the Minister of Education Krasimir Valchev because 28 years after the collapse of the communist regime, Bulgarian students are scheduled to study concepts of the history of Bulgaria as a In the positions of various representatives of the BSP, outrage was expressed by putting the totalitarian communist regime on a plane with totalitarian national socialist and fascist regimes that function in Europe during the 20s, 30s and 40s of the last century. We mention all these facts because they are a symptom of value atrophy in the midst of one of the main political forces in Bulgaria, and this condition poses a number of risks to the whole Bulgarian society. In a severe crisis of its national, ideological and civilisational identity, the leadership of the BSP is unable to conduct normal political dialogue within the democratic process. We note that today the leadership of the BSP is ready to withdraw from the democratic consensus achieved after the collapse of communism, according to which political violence must be condemned and remain in history as a lesson for future generations. Today, the leadership of the BSP is in a situation where it advocates that there are two types of political violence: bad before 9 September 1944, and good after 9 September 1944, justly committed by the totalitarian communist state, and unjustly committed after the coup since 1923 and during the Second World War. This double standard and BSP's statements on this topic in recent months give us reason to believe that there is a debate in the party itself on whether political violence could be used as an instrument for achieving certain political objectives. In this bipolar state the leadership of BSP spread the position in which simultaneously urged Prime Minister Borisov to separate himself from Lukovmarsh and at the same time defined the People's Court as necessary and inevitable military justice. Then, this same manual of BSP distinguished itself from its own position related to the People's Court and attributed it to an anonymous author. In response to this inadequate position, we are obliged to state that: firstly, Prime Minister Borisov and GERB have never and in no way solidarityd with Lukovmarsh in order to distinguish themselves from him. Moreover, we appreciate this manifestation as an opportunity for supporters of the anti-democratic nationalist ideology, and therefore we strongly oppose such types of events. As a European and right-wing conservative party GERB condemns and will fight against any anti-democratic ideology such as the ideologies of national socialism, fascism and communism. During the policy of education GERB will continue to promote the condemnation of political violence in all its forms, regardless of the resistance of supporters of national socialism, fascism and communism. For us, political violence is a wound that needs to be treated. This wound divided Bulgarian society throughout the 20th century and the consequences of it must be overcome with the efforts of all political forces, including the left. We will continue to argue that the so-called People's Court is a crime because historical facts and historical truth are on our side. I will just mention that in about 4 months in Bulgaria 9155 sentences were issued, with which are sentenced to death of 2730 people, 1305 people are sentenced to life imprisonment, while the rest of them are sentenced to one to twenty years. Among the latter is the savior of the Bulgarian Jews Dimitar Peshev, who was sentenced by the same People's Court to 15 years in prison for................ and anti-Semitism. By comparison, the Nuremberg Process, which operates in the former Nazi Germany, was at the same time sentenced 19 people, of whom to death " 12. All of them are only Hitler's people. This approach of reconciliation and real justice for the crimes of national socialism shows why after World War II West Germany became one of the most prosperous countries in Europe, while in 1989 the communist regime in Bulgaria went bankrupt and not another, and the BCP itself decided to overthrow and exclude its former Secretary General Todor Zhivkov and much of his surroundings. Fifth, we will continue to commemorate and honor the thousands of innocent victims of communist terror from 1944 to 1962, including intellectuals, such as the one sent to the concentration camp Dimitar Talev and the one killed without trial and conviction Raiko Aleksiev; democratic politicians such as Ivan Bagryanov, Nikola Mushanov and Konstantin Muraviev, who during the entire period of World War II tried to change the geopolitical course of Bulgaria; the saviors of the Jews, such as those killed without trial and sentence Vladimir Kurtev and Lilyana Panitza; clergy, such as the murdered after liturgia Nevrokopski Mytropolit Boris, the condemned Catholic Bishop Evgenius Bosilkov and those sentenced to life imprisonment evangelists Vasil Ziapkov, Janko Ivanov, Nikola Mihaylov and Georgi Chernev. Madam President, honourable Members! GERB's parliamentary group rejects and will fight any attempt to rehabilitate political violence. The rejection of political violence as a method for the functioning of state power is the foundation of any democratic and civilized government. Bulgarian history from 1919 to 1989 is saturated with political violence and hardly today there is a Bulgarian who does not have relatives undergoing repression on one side or on the other. And it is here that the responsibility of democratic political parties comes, which are obliged to raise respect for this form of political activity through its denial. It's a wound that hasn't healed yet that needs to be treated. BSP with its history should be an essential part of this treatment. There is no way from the textbooks the fact that there were concentration camps and totalitarian regime in Bulgaria, and there is no way that this violence can be justified by the industrialization, sports and cultural achievements of the country in the communist period. Yes, the BSP is right that the textbooks should also include the political violence from the period 1923 to 1925, only that this violence is being studied from 1945 to today. The period of 1934 is also to be studied in 1944 when political parties and all kinds of organizations are banned in Bulgaria. The figure of the author of the military coups from 1923, 1934 and 1944 should also be studied in a much deeper way because this name plays one of the most important and darkest roles in the times when political violence became a state policy. And the purpose of all of this should be one single.. regardless of the political ideas they profess, Bulgarian children and Bulgarian citizens should be raised in such a way that they do not allow such periods to be repeated. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. We continue with the first item on the agenda. Here you are, Dr. Daritkova, to present the report for the second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report on the second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Health Act No 754-01-77, submitted by Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs on 3 November 2017, adopted on the first vote on 20 December 2017. The Law on Health is amended and supplemented by the Law on Health. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u5	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I vote on the name of the Law which the Commission supports. 125 MPs voted: 120, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u6	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ................................................................................... In Art. 25, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 101 the following amendments and 1. para. 1 acquires the type: For the establishment of reduced working capacity of persons of working age, for the identification of the type and extent of damage to children up to 16 years of age, for persons who have acquired the right to a pension for internship and age under art. 68 of the Social Security Code, as well as the confirmation of occupational disease, medical expertise shall be carried out. 2. para. 2 acquires the species: The authorities of the medical expertise are the doctor, medical advisory committees (LKK), territorial expert committees (TELK) and the National Expert Committee (NELK). 3. para. 2 of the Act in force becomes para. 3. 4. Acting para. 3 is signed in its systematic place as al. 5. 5th para. 4 acquires the following type: The medical expertise shall include species expertise and a degree of reduced performance. The defined reduced performance is: short-term, long-term and long-term. 6th para. 5 acquires the species: In the case of a person with reduced working capacity to the investigating authorities or to the judicial authorities, the bodies referred to in para. 2 assess whether the health status of the person allows his appearance to the investigative and judicial authorities during the period of reduced performance. 7th para. 6 acquires the species: The degree of reduced workability is determined in percentage relative to the employment capacity of a person in his age group of persons up to 16 years of age, persons of working age and persons of retirement age. 8th para. 7 acquires the species: The type and extent of reduced workability of persons who have acquired the right to a retirement pension and age under art. 68 of the Social Security Code shall be determined by life. The re-certification of those persons may be carried out at their request or at the request of the medical examiners. 9. a new para is created. 8 with the following text: The principles and criteria of medical expertise, the procedure for establishing short-term, long-term and long-term reduced workability in persons of working age, type and degree of disability of persons up to 16 years of age, and in retirement age, confirmation of the professional nature of the disease, as well as the conditions and procedures for carrying out medical expertise under para. 1 shall be determined by regulations of the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u7	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Dr. Daritkova, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to express my concerns and objections to the proposals made by Dr. Naydenova and a group of MPs at the beginning of the Bill. First of all, these proposals have nothing to do with the philosophy of the bill tabled at first reading. They concern various members of the Health Act and offer a radically new philosophy for organization of medical expertise. They are not accompanied by motives as required by the Rules of Procedure. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the Such a proposal does not allow for the interpretation of texts which, unfortunately, are full of inaccuracies, legal and technical omissions, errors and make it impossible to correct them in such a way as to correct them because, normally, when they are introduced at first reading, in the context of the second reading, such proposals may be changed. So I will read and you will then note that there is even an incorrect numbering of the paragraphs. That's what the coworkers brought in. I haven't changed it in any way, because I don't have the opportunity. Even during a meeting, I asked my colleagues to withdraw the proposals, because I think it is more right that they should be tabled as a separate Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Health Act, which can be discussed in due order. However, despite the imperative provision of art. 84, para. 2th sentence, third of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I voted on these proposals. They were not adopted by the Commission. These are the legal and technical objections. My objections are essentially really about the meaning of your proposals. Why do you think the new terminology you're introducing will somehow ease medical expertise? Do you think that when you talk about temporarily reduced workforce of persons up to 16 years of age or people in retirement age, it makes sense and sense? [[Reply by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]] On the contrary, I read your text. You should have listened carefully, Dr. Ademov, that in their proposals it is about reduced workability of persons up to 16 years of age and people in retirement age. All subsequent laws arising from your new terminology introduced in this bill have not been amended. My fellow Members, I really appeal to you once again to withdraw these proposals. If you are very fond of this kind of change, offer them as a separate Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Health Act, but in this case the procedure is indeed broken, the meaning is broken and it makes no sense to waste the time of the MPs with similar decisions that will in no way ease medical expertise.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u9	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any lines? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova. You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will start with the last words of my esteemed Dr. Daritkova: has the meaning of the proposal changed? I think we are all aware that the proposals we are making, this is not about a budget, it is about medicine. Secondly, we are trying to increase and expand the proposal that the MPs Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs have made, but we have gathered within the framework which is defined by Section IV of the Health Act. Nowhere, in any law, especially in the cited opinions taken between first and second readings, is it said that the people's representative or group of MPs cannot do so. We don't have an explicit ban on the law. Third, I respect the experience Dr. Daritkova has. Do you think that if we had made a mistake, though new MPs who imported this bill, which is not only by us, but by a group that has been working on it for several months now, would have been stopped? So, I think this shouldn't happen. Fourth, I will not make any remarks because of the modest experience we have, but in the report there is a big gap that cannot be explained by the experience that other MPs have. This is that in art. 106, which we will then get to, is only quoted, but it is not mentioned anywhere that this is a proposal of the MPs Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs. [[Reply of the rapporteur Daniela Daritkova.]] Something that's an unacceptable mistake for a great deal of experience that should be in this room. In this regard, I am proposing the reasons that we have had true, they are not for a technical reason, for which I ask to be excused, but I must tell you that in view of the fact that we are making an addition and extension to give opportunities for more doctors to participate in the medical expertise in the part in support of the proposal of Georgi Kolev and MPs, that is why the laws that should change further and make changes in the next, in view of this forthcoming concept, which is being discussed by a working group, which, in my opinion, is very narrow and small, only with representatives of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, we are not making changes there, because there will be a new Law project to be adopted with a common consensus between the political powers. So this bill is going to be much bigger. It will perhaps concern the entire Health Act. I don't know if I'm clear, but we only fit within the limits defined by medical expertise. In order not to take the floor again, the new terminology, yes, a bit of a startle perhaps specialists in this area, but the new terminology is not something unknown. This is not a trial error. The working group has used the Finnish model and who wants to, and who understands I do not claim that we are specialists, can safely examine this model, how far people have progressed, and we are only at the level of a concept that matures for three months in the National Assembly. In order not to take the floor again, I make the following editorial amendments in art. 101, t. 4 The Words................................................... 3 "To Read.......................................................................................................... 3.................................................................................. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u11	Here you go, Dr. Daritkova, for a line. I'd like to clarify the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u12	Dear Dr. Naydenova, I would like to remind you that we are at the second reading, that is to say we should discuss not the philosophy of the submitted draft by the Members of the National Assembly from the Patriotic Front and your proposals because we have now read them. I will remind you of the Rules, which I have pointed out and which I said is contrary to what you have tabled, namely, Art. 84, para. Second sentence, third paragraph, propositions that contradict the principles and scope of the bill adopted at first vote shall not be discussed and voted. Despite this imperative in the Rules of Procedure, I have accepted a discussion. However, now you should essentially present your proposals. Our report is perfect, it is checked. When we have a report at second reading, adjustments are made to the text of the importer and therefore it is not written that they belong to Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs, but to those who have imported by importer proposals for correction. This is the mechanism of preparation and the methodology for making reports at second reading, which I do not believe you to challenge because it has been written in the Rules and this has been parliamentary practice for years. I ask now you here why didn't you explain in what you proposed, how will the degree of reduced employment of persons up to 16 years of age and pensioners be determined? Can we even talk about efficiency? That's what bothers me in these texts that you suggested. Explain it to us. Why do you think that persons up to 16 years of age need to be judged on the workability of a person in his age group? The same applies to pensioners. 7, para. 6. You can see what you have offered and try to explain to us how this will change the medical expertise. This is your obligation now with regard to the texts we are discussing, text by text, because we are still discussing them despite the Rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u13	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. A hole? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u14	Honourable Mr. Chairman, Honourable Members of the National Assembly! I very much ask that we examine Article carefully. 101. Dr. Daritkova read it carefully, slowly, but al. 1: For the establishment of reduced working capacity for persons of working age, for the identification of the type and extent of damage to children up to the age of 16......................................................................................................................................... [[(Replication of the rapporteur Daniela Daritkova: "Read para. 6, p. 7.]] Alinea 6: "Stepenta reduced workability" is defined in percentages relative to the employment capacity of a person in his age group.. Note, there is a dash........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[Noise and lines.]] What do I want to tell you? Here's the idea. In our proposal, first, we divide people into the following age groups. The first age group is persons up to 16 years of age for a number of reasons, not to waste time bothering you with this specifics of children and so on. The second group of patients from 16 to 65 years of age. This 16-year-old is the upper limit of the first group so that we can differentiate age. The third age group is over 65 years old, which is the pension. Secondly, in this age group, in the first one I said about persons up to 16 years of age, and in the second and third, the type and extent of damage is determined. You know, there's a sharpening that telks define them, and then you define the already reduced performance and from there it's defined where, if the person is at a working age, what can work, something that in this part, no longer concerns us as medics. So if I'm not well understood, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u15	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any speeches on the text discussed? I don't see anyone who wants to. We'll move on to the vote. Dr. Naydenova, I asked you to specify the editorial amendment you made and which I could not mark. This is an editorial amendment to the text for art. 101, which you offer. How does the repair sound exactly?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u16	Art. 101, t. 4, The Words................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u17	Yes, you do grammar.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u18	It's not the MPs' fault. [[(Replication of the rapporteur Daniela Daritkova: In the importers is the guilt.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u19	Thank you for this amendment. We will put to the vote the amendment and the entire text proposed by you. I take it there are no other statements, no requests. We are going to vote on § 1 on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. First, we vote on the editorial amendment, which Dr. Naydenova submitted in the text proposed for this. 4..?.............................................................................................. 3.................................................................................................... Grammatically correct is her proposal. They voted 108 MPs: 25 against 56, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the entire text of Paragraph 1 on the proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 21, against 61, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. Please, Dr. Daritkova, continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u20	Proposal of MPs Valentina Naydenova and group of MPs: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 101a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 1 acquires the species: The term of the decision on the extent of damage and long-term reduced performance shall be defined in the regulations under art. 101, para. 8, depending on the nature of the damage, the dynamics of its development and the possibilities for restoring performance. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In cases where clear and precise conditions are not expected to be reversed, according to the procedure under para. 1 or in the case of progressive incurable conditions, the degree of long-term reduced performance is determined by life and only upon request by the patient is re-certification. 3. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: For damage caused, some of which are not clearly and accurately defined, the duration of the decision on the type and extent of the damage and the level of performance shall be determined in accordance with para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u21	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any speeches on the proposal for § 2 "The proposal of Dr. Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. We're going to vote on the text. Please vote on § 2 of the Report on a proposal by Dr. Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 27, against 63, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u22	Proposal of MPs Valentina Naydenova and group of MPs: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 102. 2, the text of the NHIF Governor is deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u23	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Dr. Daritkova, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u24	Once again, I expect the honourable importers to explain why they believe that the NHIF manager should be removed from the Medical Expertise Board? A little further, they also remove the possibility for the NHIF to pay for the activities of medical expertise. 45 of the Health Insurance Act. Who's gonna pay for the medical report? What do you think people should pay for their own examination and examination? Why do you remove the possibility of control by the NHIF, the regional health insurance banks of carrying out the medical expertise on this mechanism? What was your logic? That's what we expect you to explain to us. Maybe you can convince us that you're right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u25	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any lines to Dr Daritkova's statement? No requests. Here you are, Dr. Naydenova, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, I will refrain from explaining control, because when the time comes, then let's look at it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u27	Now's the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u28	Why are we suggesting that the NHIF manager gets out of the National Medical Expertise Board? That's what we do in tune with not wanting to change things. If so far everything was okay, then this whole system that goes vertically wouldn't have led to too much increase in decisions issued by TelK, which grow, to say avalanche, there wouldn't be so many hospital sheets and employers complaining about it. There wasn't that much money at all for the NSI to give for expert decisions that are sometimes controversial. Why would the manager be on the National Medical Expertise Board? I want to tell you, honourable Members, we ourselves, as National Assembly, have determined what the duties of the Governor of the NHIF are. Nowhere does it say he should be involved in these organs. Secondly, we're also doing this because we want to divide the financial part, and I'm saying, on the vertical side.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u29	Who's paying?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u30	Because at the moment there are funds that are going under the state budget and the Ministry of Health for Telks and he is making transfers to the RZIF.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u31	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u32	What is the problem with this money staying in the Ministry of Health and being able to control the verticals respectively the regional health centers, the Telks and LKKs. So the separation will allow the one who gives the money to be able to control it further. I'm sorry, but I'm also explaining the next thing we're going to see in the next paragraphs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u33	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Replies to Dr. Naydenova's statement? I can't see. Any other comments on the proposal for a text of § 3? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposal for a text of § 3 of Dr. Valentina Naydenova, not supported by the Commission. They voted 113 MPs: 23, against 68, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u34	Paragraph 4? a proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs for the creation of § 4: ............................................ Article 103 is amended as follows: Art. (1) Expertise under Art. 103 (1) 101, para. 4 is carried out by the treating physician, medical advisory committees (LKK), territorial expert committees (TELK) and by the National Expert Committee (NELK). (2) Expertise under art. 101, para. 4 of long-term and long-term reduced performance is carried out by TELMK and NELK. (3) Expertise under art. 101, para. 4 persons up to 16 years of age are carried out by TELMK and NELK with the participation of a specialist in children's diseases. (4) Expertise under art. 101, para. 4 persons in retirement age by type and degree of disability shall be carried out by TELLK and NELK. (5) Expertise under art. 101, para. 4 of workers working for the establishment of workability under specific working conditions, working conditions and adaptation of jobs shall be carried out with the participation of a specialist in occupational medicine and/or professional diseases. (6) Expertise under art. 101, para. 4 in persons of working age is carried out on the basis of a methodology to determine the manner and extent of damage according to the age group and contains contraindicated working conditions for the relevant disability and recommendations and criteria for work development. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u35	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am making the following editorial amendments. Paragraph 4 of Article 4. 103, para. 6 the word...................................................................................... And the second amendment is the second § 4, with which we will continue..................................................................................................... 104, to be recorded as § 5, and all paragraphs down to be renumbered. [[Reply of the rapporteur Daniela Daritkova.]] Okay, I'll propose it later. Only in this part were we able to record that in § 4 in art. 103, para. 6 the word.......................................................................................................... Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u37	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any other statements on the proposed text for § 4? I don't see anyone who wants to. Let's move on to the vote. First, we vote on the editorial amendment, according to which in para. 6 of the proposed text, the word.............................................................. is read with....................................... This is in this paragraph, which commented:.. which determines the way and the degree........................ to read........................................................................... They voted 111 MPs: 20, against 71, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the whole text in the way it has been tabled by the MPs Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. We vote on the wording of § 4. They voted 104 MPs: 11 against 71, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u38	A proposal by the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs for the creation of another § 4 was submitted as follows: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 104 new paras are being created. 1, para. 2 and para. 4 with the following text: The doctor's consultative committees, TelK and NELK are revealed and closed by order of the Minister of Health. (2) Doctors participating in the LKK, TELK and NELK shall be on a basic and/or additional contract as required by the Labour Code. (4) The funding of the activities of LKK, TELK and NELK shall be carried out by the budget of the Ministry of Health. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u39	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Dr. Naydenova, you are welcome to make an attempt to correct, perhaps this will be your proposal as well. We're listening!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u40	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! For me personally, this is a very important part of the proposal, because here we show very clearly how this whole existing system will be separated, how the Telks will emerge from the structure of the medical institutions as a proposal and they will be subject to the Ministry of Health directly. In addition, doctors participating in the medical expertise system should be appointed under a permanent or additional contract of employment. And last but not least, I think I should do the editorial amendment. The second § 4 s refers to art. 104, to be recorded as § 5 and all paragraphs down in the Report in our proposal to increase by one unit.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u41	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Here's a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u42	I would like to emphasise that this editorial proposal with the renumbering will not be enough either, because in one more place you have a duplication of the number of paragraphs, that is, it has to be renumbered after several paragraphs. So, really, the mess with the numbering you've mixed up is irreparable. And the mess with what you've mixed up with with transferring individual committees to the Ministry of Health is inexplicable. Because, at this stage, NELK is a health institution, a legal person of budget support to the Minister of Health established under the Health Act. All of a sudden, you're telling the Minister to go completely negative on him. I do not understand why you think that the Minister has nothing to do with territorial expert medical committees, as their directors are appointed by regional health inspections and where will they go if you remove them from the structure of medical institutions? Where are the Telks going to be? What is the point of this proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u43	Telks to be appointed by the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u44	Dr. Ademov added to me the LKK to be appointed by the Minister. This will totally block the issue of all hospital sheets and indeed this is the biggest nonsense.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u45	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Do you have a hole? That was a line, and you're entitled to the back. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u46	Mr. Chairman, I object to what we have involved. It's not a kitchen to mess up and mess up. We are the National Assembly and should very carefully refine the texts that have been tabled. At the same time, I ask you very much, I am not smiling, but I am too serious and responsible for the tasks of presenting this bill, and therefore I think that we should all take every proposal seriously, Dr. Daritkova, regardless of the experience of the MPs. Where will the LKKs be, where will the TELKs be? This is a matter that is reflected in one of the members proposed for amendment, there are methodologies on which this reduced workability will be determined. And what happens now, tell me? Why, being a structure in a medical facility, do you think that the manager will not be able to influence the decisions? How many times do the phones go up in advance to the members or chairman of TelK to say: "Abe, look there, I have one person, if you can... ♪ This is done with a view to preventive action, I say again, for clarity in the system and I am not ashamed of it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u47	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We move on to the vote, first of all, the proposal to renumber § 4 and the next, made by Dr. Naydenova. They voted 109 MPs: 16 against 74, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text proposed by the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission for § 4, which we did not renumber. This is the second § 4, as Dr Daritkova pointed out in the Report. Vote 110 MPs: 22, against 73, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. Please continue Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u48	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: .................................................................................. Art. 105 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u49	Thank you. Are there any speeches on this proposal for the wording of § 5? I don't see any MPs who want it. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting on the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs for § 5, not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 18, against 69, abstention 20. The proposal for § 5 is not accepted. I'm listening, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u50	We are now moving on to the texts, essentially, from the bill submitted at first reading by Mr. Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs. That's why there's a single paragraph text. There is a proposal from the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs for § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106, para. 2 acquires the following In the compositions of TELM and the specialized compositions of NELK, a doctor is required to include a representative of the NII appointed by order of the manager of the NII. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of paragraph only, which shall become § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106 the following 1. Alinea 2 is canceled. 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: If medical examination is carried out, a physician may not be involved who: 1. participated in the preparation of the expert decision under appeal; 2. participated in the advisory work related to the expertise of temporary incapacity, the type and extent of disability and the permanently reduced capacity of the certified person; 3. is a spouse, a relative on a straight line without limitation or on a subject line to the second degree of the certified person; 4. Lives in actual marital cohabitation with the certified person. 3. They're creating an al. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9: In the cases referred to in para. 3 The doctor from the Chamber of TelK or NELK is obliged to state in writing that he wants to be removed from the meeting of the committee concerned. (5) The removal of a doctor from a meeting in the cases under para. 3 may also request the certified person on a reasoned basis. (6) The order for submission and the model of the request under para. 4 and 5 shall be determined by the rules of art. 109. (7) Upon request for removal of a doctor in the cases under para. 4 and 5, the head of the medical establishment or the director of the NELK shall be obliged to rule on his justification within three days of his entry. (8) In case the request for removal is justified, a replacement member of the TelK or a doctor from the other specialized groups of NELK, designated by the head of the medical establishment or the director of the NELK, shall be included in the medical expertise. (9) Request under para. 4 and 5 can also be done electronically under the terms and conditions of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services and the Law on Electronic Governance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u51	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any speeches? Dr. Naydenova, come in, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will not ask questions from this tribune, but I would like to know why it is so dramatically decided not to have a representative of the NEI in the specialized bodies of NELK. More than that. This is a different opinion, which I would like to express on behalf of our MPs who tabled the proposal. We believe that this is a mistake. We believe that a doctor supplier of the NSI should even go further down in the telc configurations. Because there are two things. Firstly, there will be another doctor to represent the NSI, to participate and thus expand the circle of doctors in the Chambers, and, on the other hand, very late NSI discovers that some expert solutions are not good or there are violations. And then, I quote even the case of the Plovdiv TELK, then only the doctors who are in the composition of TELK are responsible for all this and fine them, and they must return the money, as the insured person does not return it, and the time in which the benefits are paid is also running, and this compensation must be returned by the doctors. With this proposal of ours, which does not contradict Dr Daritkova's proposal and the main proposal does not contradict, we make a kind of protection of doctors so that they can work calmly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u53	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? There are no Members of Parliament who are willing to speak. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on Dr. Valentina Naydenova's proposal and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 110 MPs: 23, against 70, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for a single paragraph which becomes § 1 in the Commission's text. They voted 113 MPs: 88, against 1, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u54	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: .................................................... Article 107 is repealed. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u55	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u56	I would like to correct the rapporteur that article. 107 is canceled, but this is already happening in § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u57	Dr. Naydenova, the proposal to renumber the text was not accepted. If you make an offer now, I'll put it to the vote. Is that how I feel about it? Thank you. Are there any other statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make any other speeches. We shall proceed to the vote on the text of § 7, which has been proposed, to be renumbered and to be regarded as § 8. We vote on Dr. Naydenova's proposal. They voted 111 MPs: 21, against 74, abstention 16. The proposal to renumber the paragraph is not accepted. We vote on the substance of the proposal art. 107 to be canceled. They voted 109 MPs: for 4, against 81, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u58	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 108 the following 1. In para. 1 the following sentence shall be added after the words 2. The text in para. 3 acquires the following type: The medical documentation of the persons certified by TelK and NELK, who have been designated for long-term reduced performance, shall be kept for 40 years from the last decision of TELK and NELK and for all other persons 5 years. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u59	Thank you. Paragraph 8 statements? I don't see any requests. We are going to vote on the just read paragraph. They voted 104 MPs: 20, against 71, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u60	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 109, the text under art. 103 (c) is replaced by the following: 101, para. The following points are inserted after The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u61	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests. We're going to vote on § 9. They voted 104 MPs: 22, against 74, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u62	Proposal by the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 110, the text "NHIF" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u63	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for statements under § 10. We are going to vote on the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs for a text of § 10, not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 21, against 77, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u64	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ..................................................... Article 111 acquires the species: Art. 111. (1) For control of the acts issued by the medical expertise bodies of reduced performance by order of the director of the regional health inspection concerned, a regional council shall be established, which shall include representatives of the regional health inspection and the territorial division of the NSI. (2) The Regional Council shall analyse and monitor the medical expertise activities of the reduced performance carried out by the treating physicians, LKK and TELK. (3) The Regional Council shall also carry out official inspections of not less than 2 per cent of the decisions on reduced performance selected by random means issued on the territory of the area concerned, within one month of each specific decision. (4) The Regional Council shall carry out a check to comply with the requirements and procedures for issuing decisions on reduced workability by the treating physicians, LKK and TELK, on a proposal and to the stakeholders and organisations (the certified, insured, employers and territorial units of the NSI). (5) The Regional Council shall be obliged to rule on the checks carried out within one month of the TelK decision. After that period, no liability can be taken and administrative penalty imposed on the TelK employees. (6) In the event of a breach in the issuing of expert decisions on reduced performance, the regional council shall notify the stakeholders and organisations in writing (the certified, insured, employers and territorial units of the NSI) within one month. (7) For damage caused, the claim by the plaintiff should be directed to the regional council as a controlling body. (8) The organisation of the activities of the Regional Council shall be determined by rules issued by the Minister of Health together with the manager of the NSI. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u65	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Are there any statements on the read text of § 11? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. We are going to vote on the text of § 11, proposed by the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: 21, against 71, abstention 16. The offer is not accepted. Now we proceed to § 10. Just to stress that it is not a mistake to read the report, Mrs. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u66	That's right. That is why I said that the previous procedural proposal for renumbering Dr. Naydenova will not help because after § 11 in its proposal we return to § 10. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 1, t. 2 the texts of the emergency medical services centres shall be deleted; 2. para. 2 acquires the following type: The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 in respect of the implementation of this Regulation. 111. 3. in para. 3 the text "timely inability' shall be replaced by the word "timely reduced performance'; 4. in para. 5 the text as well as the RZIF is dismissed; 5. The text in para. 9 acquires the species: The appeal shall be made in accordance with the procedure laid down in paragraph 1. 8 of the expert decisions for long-term reduced performance of the medical expertise bodies do not stop them. In the event of an appeal, if the NEC decides after the three-month period by a decision setting out reduced workability leading to a reduction in the initially determined compensation, the certified person and the members of the TELK shall not recover the amount paid in more than one amount. 6. in para. 10 text "al." 3 is out; 7. a new para is created. 12 with the following text: If the decision of the authorities of the medical expertise is signed with a reasoned particular opinion by a member of the medical expert, the decision shall be subject to re-examination. The Commission does not support the proposal. I would like to emphasise for the transcript that I read verbatim the proposals submitted by Dr. Naydenova and a group of MPs, however difficult it may be for me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u67	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Dr. Naydenova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u68	Dear Mr. Chairman, I don't think it's read, rather it's spelled. If the rapporteur has not read his report in advance so that he can be smoother in the speech and presentation of the material, I apologise, but I believe that this is quite trendy. Get to the point. In para. 1, t. Art. 2 of art. 112 we propose that emergency medical care centres be deleted, in view of the fact that we believe that emergency medical care should not be relevant to temporary disability experts. In other words, emergency medical centres should do what they are assigned to provide emergency medical care and not deal with what is said. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112, I'm doing an editorial amendment for para. 2 I will read slower, so that the word can be recorded "experts"...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u69	I didn't say anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u70	Without pronouncing, of course. ... to read..experts.. And in para. 9 of the same article, one words to the reduction shall be removed due to duplication.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u71	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any other statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make speeches. We'll move on to the vote. I would like to make it clear that the errors in numbering and errors related to repetitions of words are indeed present in the report. This forces me to specify the text we are voting on, not just as § 10, but as § 10, recorded on page 6 below, because there is another § 10 on the same page at the top, which we have already voted on. Reading the transcript, you'd be surprised what we're voting for, but this is the material presented to us. Please do not go into dispute and details, we will only specify what we are voting on and move forward on this report. We are going to vote on the proposal of the National Representative Valentina Naydenova for § 10, recorded on page 6 below, not supported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u72	The editorial amendment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u73	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. First, we vote on editorial amendments to this text. One editorial amendment is in para. 2 to replace the experts with the experts. At the same time, we will vote on both editorial amendments. And delete the word "to reduce" which is repeated in the text of para. 9. Just once read to reduce. Please vote. Vote 98 MPs: 21, against 65, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the text of § 10 which I explained is on page 6 below. They voted 93 MPs: 20, against 61, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u74	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 112a the word "NHIF" is out. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u75	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on § 11, recorded on page 7, unsupported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 19 against 69, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u76	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ................................................................................... Additional provisions shall create new items. 43, 44, 45 containing the following: It's 43. Short-term reduced performance is reduced performance to 180 days; 44. Long-term reduced performance is reduced performance from 180 days to 540 days; 45. Long-term reduced performance is reduced performance for more than 540 days; The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u77	Are there any speeches? I don't see any MPs who want it. We vote on the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs for § 12. Vote 98 MPs: 17 against 69, abstention 12. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u78	Proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish a division with the name "Transitional and Final Provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u79	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal in its version. They voted 99 MPs: 86 against 1, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u80	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs: ..................................................... 1. The words "definitional states' shall be replaced by the words "clearly and precisely defined conditions in which development is not expected'; 2. All over the Health Act, the words: 2.1. the temporary incapacity is replaced by the temporary reduced service life is replaced by the temporary inability to work; 2.2. the temporary reduced service capacity is replaced by the continuous reduced service capacity is replaced by the continuing service capacity is replaced by the following: 2.3. the disability is replaced by the long-term reduced service life is replaced by the lifetime of the service; 3. The Social Security Code shall make the following amendments and additions: 3.1. The texts in Art. 3.1. shall be amended. 2, para. 1 as follows: (a) C. 1. the text "timely inability" shall be replaced by the following: (b) C. 2 the text "temporaryly reduced workforce' is replaced by the words "long-term reduced workforce'; c) C. 3 the word "invalidity' is replaced by the word "long-term reduced workforce'; 3.2. All over the Social Security Code, the amended texts in art. 2, para. 1 is replaced by the new texts. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u81	Are there any speeches? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u82	Dear Mr. Chairman! I'd like to address two issues. One of them is................................................................................. Experts point out that the term "Definative" is foreign and it should not be in such a law of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, so the definition of the words "Definative states" is given and is replaced by its definition. And I think they definitely have their right. The second thing I am doing as a proposal: we, as importers, are withdrawing the changes we are making in the Social Security Code. I am going back where, at the beginning of the debate, I said that the changes to a number of laws that are to come will be determined by a future bill. May God be more comprehensive, not just medical expertise and be accepted by a common consensus in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u83	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Should we consider that you are making an editorial proposal to drop the proposal formulated in point 1. 3.2. everywhere in the Social Security Code to replace the amended texts? The final point of Dr. Naydenova's proposal is withdrawn, which we are currently discussing. Are there any other statements? I do not see any other requests for speech on the text discussed. We vote on the proposal of the MP Valentina Naydenova and a group of MPs for a text of § 13 with the statement to withdraw the last item 3.2. from the proposal. The proposal is not supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 22, against 66, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. Dr. Daritkova, we are continuing with your proposal on the report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u84	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 2: ..................................................... (1) Within two months of the entry into force of this Act, the specialized compositions of NELK shall be brought into conformity with the requirements of this Law. (2) The procedures for carrying out medical expertise by the specialized compositions of NELK shall be completed in accordance with this Law, which have been initiated and not completed until the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u85	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We are voting on a proposal for a text of § 2 made by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 81, against none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u86	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 3: .................................................. In the Law on Medical Institutions (Obn., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 26d: Art. 26 years old. Structural units of the mental health centers, centers for skin-veneric diseases and complex oncology centers shall also be the territorial expert medical committees opened at these medical facilities under art. 105 of the Health Act. 2. In Chapter 8, Section I is created art. 61a: Art. 61a. Structural units of the state municipal hospital care institutions are also the territorial expert medical committees opened at these hospitals under the order of art. 105 of the Health Act. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81, para. 4 the number
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u87	Are there any speeches? I don't see any MPs who want it. We are going to vote on § 3 by text proposed by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 24. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u88	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 4: ............................................ Within two months of the entry into force of this law, the regulations shall be brought into force in accordance with the requirements of that law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u89	Statements on the proposed text for § 4? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. We vote on the wording of § 4 on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: 74, against 3, abstention 19. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u90	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 5: .................................................................................. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u91	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposal for a text of § 5 submitted by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: for 76, against 1, abstention 22. The proposal is adopted, and thus the Law amending and supplementing the Health Act, No 754-01-77, submitted by the National Representative Georgi Kolev and a group of MPs on 3 November 2017. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR HELPING EARTH PRODUCERS. Imported by the Council of Ministers on 19 January 2018, was adopted at the first vote on 31 January 2018. I expect the rapporteur for a second reading. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, I ask for a procedure for the admission of Mrs. Vergina Krasteva, Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u93	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Please vote on Mrs. Krasteva's proposal for admission. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the guest to the hall. Mrs. Dimova, we'll continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u94	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act No 802-01-4 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 January 2018, adopted on the first vote on 31 January 2018. "Improvement and Supplement to the Agricultural Assistance Act" (Obn., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u95	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the name of the Law. Vote 79 MPs: 75, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u96	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u97	Are there any statements on the proposed texts for § 1 and § 2? There are no MPs who are willing to speak. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please continue with the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u98	According to § 3, there is a proposal from the MP Petar Petrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 41 is amended as follows: Art. 41. (1) For support for the schemes under art. 38a, para. 1 may apply farmers registered under art. 7 by applying for support under art. 32, para. 1 for the calendar year concerned. (2) The application for support shall be submitted within the time limits and in accordance with the procedure laid down by the ordinance under art. 32, para. 5. (3) The agricultural land included in the application for support shall be available to farmers under art. 36 (5) of Regulation (EU) No 1307/2013, which is certified by a legal basis for use registered under the Law on the ownership and use of agricultural land. (4) The legal basis for the use of agricultural land shall be registered with the municipal agriculture services at the location of the properties in a specialized software product maintained by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The registration shall be carried out by the expiry of the time limits for the submission of the application for support and the making of changes to it as defined in the ordinance under art. 32, para. 5. Registration of the legal basis shall not take place where the user of the agricultural land has an obligation under art. 34, para. Art. 6, Art. 37c, para. 7 for the lands under art. 37c, para. 3, p. 2 and under art. 37g, para. 12 of the Law on the Property and Use of Agricultural Land. (5) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall extract, grade, summarize and transmit to the Paying Agency once or at stages data on registered legal grounds for the use of agricultural land. (6) When applying for support through the Integrated Administration and Control System, the Paying Agency shall verify the data of the application to be compared with the data under para. 5. Where the farmer has included in his application agricultural land in excess of the registered legal basis for use, the system shall generate an error warning. The error warning shall be provided for the signature and/or stamp of the farmer. (7) After the expiry of the time limits for submitting the application for support and making changes to it as defined in the ordinance under art. 32, para. 5, The paying agency shall carry out an administrative check of all applications submitted for support for which the system has generated an error warning. The verification shall compare the data of applications for support with the data under para. 5 for compliance with the requirements of para. Three and four. (8) When at the check under para. 7 are established declared without a legal basis for agricultural land use, the Paying Agency shall carry out a geographical determination of their area and location. In this case, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall provide additional information to the Paying Agency. (9) When the verification under para. 7 and 8 no registered legal basis has been established under para. 4, The paying agency shall apply the provision of art. 43, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u99	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any statements on the proposed text for § 3? I don't see any requests for speeches. We are going to vote on the wording of § 3 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 81, none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u100	Proposal by the MP Irena Dimova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45, para. 1 in the sentence first, the words... in the first 5 years of the establishment of their holding...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u101	Thank you. Are there any statements on the wording of § 4? There are no speeches. We are going to vote on the text of § 4 proposed by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 93, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. With this Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Support Act No 802-01-4, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 January 2018, was adopted at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u102	Let's continue with: THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE DECISIONS OF THE 20th CONGRESS OF THE FULMIRARY POST UNION. The first report is from the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u103	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, first of all, one admission procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u104	Please go higher on the microphone, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u105	Access procedure in the hall. Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u106	We are voting on a procedure for admission in this Chamber. Vote 87 MPs: 84, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to invite the admitted person into the hall. Go on, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u107	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the acts of XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 702-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 7 February 2018, a Draft Law on the ratification of the acts of XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union was discussed, No 702-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, acting Director of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The bill was presented by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, who stressed that the draft law on ratification of the acts of XXVI congress of the Universal Postal Union held in Istanbul in 2016 was drawn up in fulfillment of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria as a member of the Universal Postal Union and in implementation of art. 85, para. 1, t. 2, 4, 5, 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 15, para. 1 of the International Contracts Act and Article 1 of the International Contracts Act. 13, p. 3 of the Postal Services Act. The Universal Postal Union (OCC) is an intergovernmental agency of the United Nations system specialising in postal services. Within the framework of the Universal Postal Union, the relations between the Member States shall be governed by the acts of the SMU. Those acts shall be amended, supplemented and adopted by any congress held, which according to art. 14, para. 1 of the Statutes is the supreme authority of the SSP. The adoption of the Draft Law on the ratification of the acts of XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union will lead to confirmation of the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the provision of a single world postal territory, founded and regulated by the acts of the VPS, ensuring the implementation of the commitments of the Republic of Bulgaria relating to the implementation of the acts of the Union by both the authorities conducting the state policy and regulating the postal services and by the elected postal operator obliged under art. 27 of the Postal Services Act to implement the acts of the VPS, which have been ratified by the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as to guarantee the right of consumers to use international postal services from and to all 192 member states. Mr Genovski noted that amendments and additions to the provisions of the Statute of the Universal Postal Union were made during the 21st Congress of the Universal Postal Union, so it is necessary to ratify the ninth Additional Protocol to it. The Act, which contains all the provisions on the application of the Statute, the overall structure and organisation of the activities of the Universal Postal Union, as well as the rules on the election and work of its permanent and other working bodies, shall be the General Rules. The General Rules and Additional Protocols to it are binding for implementation by all the Member States of the Universal Postal Union, and the First Additional Protocol to it was adopted at the 21st Congress of the Universal Postal Union. The proposed bill ratified both the Universal Postal Convention and the Final Protocol to it. The Universal Postal Convention is an act binding upon all the Member States of the Universal Postal Union. It contains regulation and uniform rules for the operation of international postal services and regulates relations, including financial, between Member States and their selected postal operators. The Final Protocol to the Universal Postal Convention shall contain the explicit arrangements laid down by the Member States concerned and shall relate to the specific conditions and methods of application by them of certain Articles of that act. The Postal Services Agreement is a multilateral act which governs the requirements and rules for the operation of international postal cash-transfer services within the framework of the Universal Postal Union. This act is not binding and is implemented only by its accession to the Member States of the Universal Postal Union. The final protocol to the Postal Services Agreement shall contain the explicit arrangements laid down by the Member States concerned and shall relate to the specific conditions and methods of application by them of certain members of that act. Mr. Genovski said the acts of the Universal Postal Union adopted by the Congress were signed by the member states. In accordance with art. 25, para. 3 The Additional Protocol thereto shall be ratified as soon as possible by the Member States which have signed it. Paragraph 4 of that Article provides that the other Union acts are to be approved in accordance with the constitutional rules of each Member State of the Universal Postal Union which has signed them. After the vote, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that a bill for ratification of the acts of the XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 702-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u108	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. A report from the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll introduce you to ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the acts of the XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 702-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 February 2017. At a regular meeting held on 1 February 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the acts of the XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 702-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2017. The bill was presented by Mr. Angel Popov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The universal postal union is an intergovernmental organisation of the United Nations system specialising in postal services. It is a member of 192 countries, and the relationship between them is governed by the acts of the Union, which are amended and supplemented at each congress of the organisation. At the last congress of the Union held in 2016 in Istanbul, the head of the delegation of the Republic of Bulgaria signed, under the conditions of subsequent ratification, the acts adopted by the XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union. The adoption of the bill will lead to confirmation of the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the provision of a single world postal territory, guaranteeing the right of consumers to use international postal services from and to all member states of the Universal Postal Union, and preserving the system of payments for processed postal traffic. Apart from that, the ratification of the acts will ensure that Bulgaria is entitled to participate in the Union's overall activities, in its management bodies and in its working structures. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 18 votes for the draft, without opposition and abstention. The Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill for ratification of the acts of the XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 702-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, to present the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u111	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! This Regulation on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the acts of XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 702-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2017. At its meeting held on 17 January 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on the ratification of the acts of XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 702-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December. This Decision shall The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister, and Mrs. Iliana Karafizieva, expert in the Directorate of Communications. The reasons for the bill were presented by Ms. Karafizieva, who pointed out that the Universal Postal Union is an intergovernmental organization of the United Nations system specializing in postal services. It is a member of 192 countries, and the relationship between them is governed by the acts of the Union, which are amended and supplemented at each congress of the organisation. It was noted that at the last Union congress held in 2016 in Istanbul, the head of the delegation of the Republic of Bulgaria signed, under the conditions of subsequent ratification, the acts adopted by the XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union. Ms. Karafizieva pointed out that the adoption of the Law will lead to confirmation of the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the provision of a single world postal territory, guaranteeing the right of consumers to use international postal services from and to all member states of the Universal Postal Union, and preserving the system of payments for processed postal traffic. She added that the ratification of the acts would ensure Bulgaria's right to participate in the Union's overall activities, in its management bodies and in its working structures. As a result of the vote taken, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 14 votes for the United States Council, No 702-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the acts of XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u112	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Will there be an importer's opinion? No. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We're going to vote. We are voting for a bill for ratification of the acts of XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 702-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2017. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. You have the floor for procedure, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u113	Thank you, Madam President. Since the adopted acts of the Istanbul Congress of the Universal Postal Union are undoubtedly adopted, they are unanimous, I am making a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, let us look at it today and at second reading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u114	Is there a reverse offer? I won't. We are voting on the procedural proposal for a second vote on the bill that has just been examined. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please read the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u115	THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the acts of XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union A single member. It ratifies the Ninth Additional Protocol to the Statute of the Universal Postal Union, the First Additional Protocol to the General Rules of the Universal Postal Union, the Universal Postal Convention and the Final Protocol thereto, and the Agreement on Postal Payment Services and the Final Protocol thereto adopted by the 21st Congress of the Universal Postal Union signed in Istanbul in 2016.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u116	I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We proceed to the second vote of the Draft Law on the ratification of the acts of XXVI Congress of the Universal Postal Union, No 702-02-16, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 7 December 2017. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next point: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAWPROECTION FOR ELECTRONIC COMMUNICATIONS AND PHYSICAL INFRASTRUCTURE. Importers are Volen Siderov and a group of MPs, submitted on 28 July 2017, adopted at the first vote on 12 October 2017. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, for a report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u117	Madam President, if I may, first of all, a procedure for admission to the Chamber. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2, please be admitted to the hall: Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister, Mrs. Janeta Rogova, Head of Department at the Department of Legal Affairs in the Ministry, and Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, Acting Director of the Directorate of Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u118	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. We are voting on the procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber, according to art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. Go on, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u119	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u120	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 78 MPs: 76, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u121	"Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u122	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the name of Chapter One. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u123	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1, as in para. 1 t. 6 is deleted, and in para 6 is deleted. 2 The terms of the law are applied. This law is applied.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u124	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall vote on the wording of art. 1 in the version of the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 75, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u125	"Chapter 2 " Objectives and Principles ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u126	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the name of Chapter Two. Vote 87 MPs: for 73, against none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u127	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2, as in t. 3 the words "coordinated with" shall be replaced by "supplied with" and "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied with" and "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied with" and "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied with" and "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied with" and "supplied" shall be replaced by "supplied." 6 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supplied" is replaced by "supplied."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u128	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 2 in the version of the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 77, none against, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u129	Under art. 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3, as in para. 5 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supposed" and in para. 8 the words "organ" under art. The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers in accordance with Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u130	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u131	Madam President, honourable Members, I will read you the reasons at the beginning of our proposal, and these are the following. We believe that there is a contradiction in setting prices for access and deployment, while, on the one hand, network operators themselves determine the amount of all the included costs related to the activity and, on the other hand, they must comply with the price methodology. In our view, it is only appropriate that the methodology remains to reflect objective costs which, on the one hand, have not been paid by the end customers of the main activity of network operators but, on the other hand, ensure that the obligations to prohibit anti-competitive cross-subsidisation are fulfilled. What do we mean? In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 which we propose to drop, says the following: that the prices that network operators can set for access reflect all the costs associated with the activity concerned. In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 which becomes respectively art. 4, network operators of physical infrastructure shall set prices for granting access to and for sharing and the right of passage according to a methodology approved by a regulation issued by the Minister of Transport. Network operators shall include all costs which may arise but, on the other hand, they must comply with a methodology which also includes prices and the way prices are set which will be validated by the Minister of Transport. Therefore, our view is that only the methodology for network operators to comply should remain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u132	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines to his statement? There are no lines. Mr. Letifov, I would ask you to read the whole text of the unaccepted proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u133	Proposal of the MPs Tishev and Ermenkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 3 the following amendments shall be made: 1. al. 4 dropped out; 2. para. 5 becomes para. 4; 3. para. 6 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market, amending Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 and repealing Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 (OJ L 153, 21.5.2012, p. 1). The following sentence shall be inserted: The method shall take into account the amounts paid by 4th para. 7 becomes para. 6, the following amendments shall be made: (a) in the introductory sentence, the words "or receive the prices under para. 4s and 4s drop out; (b) c. 1 the words.......... the prices under para..................................................... 4s and the comma in front of them drop out; c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) (d) c. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4. 3, such as the 5th para. 8 becomes para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u134	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no other speeches. We're going to vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 25, against 43, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for art. 3. Vote 84 MPs: 67, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u135	? Chapter 3? Access to information regarding physical infrastructure??? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three. "Department I " Single Information Point ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u136	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the names of Chapter 3 and Section I. Vote 89 MPs: for 71, against none, abstention 18. The proposals have been accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, a 30-minute break is followed, and then we will continue with art. 4. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u137	Mr. Letifov, please proceed with the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u138	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 4. Art. 4. (1) The functions of a Single Information Point shall be performed by the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications or by persons authorised by it. (2) The single information point shall provide network operators with access to information on: 1. procedures and regulations governing the deployment and maintenance of electronic communications networks and the construction and use of physical infrastructure, including for authorities competent to issue the relevant acts and the fees for issuing them; 2. existing physical infrastructure for network deployment, including high-speed electronic communications networks; 3. planned or ongoing works of construction, deployment and installation according to art. 39, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. samples of documents necessary for obtaining authorisations or other acts relating to the construction of physical infrastructure, samples of documents for notifications of the deployment of networks and samples of applications for obtaining rights under art. 20; 5. criteria and deadlines for access to the information under point 5. 2 and 3 may be provided, limited or refused, including the reasons for imposing restrictions or refusal; 6. contact details of the competent authorities under point 6. 1 and network operators that allow the establishment of a direct link with them, including information on the specific powers of the authorities relating to the planning, design, deployment and maintenance of electronic communications networks and the construction of physical infrastructure; 7. data, including graphics, for existing electronic communications networks; 8. Notices under art. 20, para. 4. (3) The single information point shall ensure that applications and any other documents necessary for the issuing of the relevant authorisation for the construction of physical infrastructure and for the deployment, maintenance and improvement of electronic communications networks and for the receipt of information on the course of the examination procedure by the competent authorities. (4) The information under para. 2 shall be made available to the Single Information Point and kept up-to-date by the state authorities in accordance with their competence and by network operators as follows: 1. the competent state authorities under para. 2, p. 1.. the information under point.............................................................................. 1, 4 and 6; 2. The Agency for Geodesy, Cartography and Cadastre, Municipal and Regional Administrations.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2, p. 1 supplier 6; 3. the network operators supposed information on: (a) para. 2, p. 2 in accordance with art. 7, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 11; (b) para. 2, p. 3 pursuant to Chapter Five, Section I; (c) para. 2, p. 6 and 7; 4. the authorities of the Directorate for National Construction Control the information under para. 2, p. 1, 2, 4 and 6, according to their functions under the Law on Structure of the Area. (5) The authorities of the executive power, the state enterprises, and in the cases referred to in art. 20, para. 3, p. 2 The network operators shall publish, through the Single Information Point, notices on the granting of rights under art. 15, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 17, para. 1 on the relevant physical infrastructure in accordance with art. 20, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u139	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission for art. 4. Vote 77 MPs: 68, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u140	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5, as in para. 2 the word "supplied" is replaced by "supposed" and in para. 3 words within the scope of the scope shall be replaced by the meaning of the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u141	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 5 with the change proposed by the Commission in art. 5, para. 2 and para. 3. Vote 75 MPs: 65, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u142	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6 as in para. 1 the words "in accordance with........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2 the words "organ" under art. The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 5 to amend the Annex to this Regulation and to amend the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u143	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. 6 with the replacements proposed by the Commission in para. 1 and para. 2 of art. 6. They voted 83 MPs: 76, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u144	Section II - Access to minimum information on existing physical infrastructure. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u145	Statements? There are no speeches. We are voting on the name of Section II, which is supported by the Commission. 88 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 8. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u146	Under art. 7 has a proposal from the MPs Ivan Valkov and Stanislav Ivanov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 7. Art. 7. (1) For the purpose of requesting access to physical infrastructure under art. 15 and 17 network operators shall be entitled to minimum information on the existing physical infrastructure located in the area where they plan the deployment of elements of electronic communications networks. (2) The minimum information under para. 1 includes: 1. location and/or route of existing physical infrastructure; 2. type of physical infrastructure and method of use; 3. name, address, e-mail address and contact telephone with the network operator that manages (managing) the physical infrastructure. (3) Access to the minimum information under para. 2 shall be provided by means of the Single Information Point by electronic means.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u147	Statements? I won't. We're going to vote on art. 7, which is proposed by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 75, none, abstention 9. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u148	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u149	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the texts of art. Art. 8 and art. 9 by importer supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 10. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u150	Under art. 10 has a proposal from the MPs Ivan Valkov and Stanislav Ivanov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 10: Art. 10. In case of change of the data under art. 7, para. 2 public sector bodies shall provide the Single Information Point with the updated information within one month of: 1. the issuing of permissions for the preparation of detailed planning plans, as well as the entry into force of orders for the approval of detailed planning plans for physical infrastructure; 2. putting into service the physical infrastructure and for the elements under art. 51, para. 1, t. 1 which is not subject to entry into service, as well as to the electronic communications networks located..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. the change of information under art. 7, para. 2, p. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u151	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote proposals by the Commission a text for art. 10. Vote 91 MPs: for 82, no objection, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u152	Under art. 11 has a proposal from the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11, para. 3 in the second sentence, the direct costs for the provision of the information shall be replaced by the price payable to the Single Information Point for the same information. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u153	Thank you. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11, para. 3 we propose the following: Directive 2014/61, which we are in fact transposing, prescribes that where the minimum information is not provided to the Single Information Point, network operators are obliged to provide it, and the conditions for obtaining information must be the same as those obtained from the Single Information Point. What are we saying? We've already accepted art. 4, para. 4 which says the following: The information is provided to the Single Information Point and is kept up-to-date by the state authorities according to their competence, and by network operators. Article 7 which we also adopted states the following: 15 and 17 network operators are entitled to minimum information on the existing physical infrastructure. That is to say, we want to make a change in the text initially tabled about the fact that those network operators or public authorities that violated the Law, i.e. did not comply with art. 4, para. Art. 4 and art. 7 and have not provided the minimum information which they are required to provide by law not to enter into the price which the operator of electronic communications networks will pay for additional information and the price shall be the same as if they would have received it from the electronic information point. Interestingly, when we discussed this change in the Commission, that is to say our proposal, the initial opinion of the Ministry of Transport and Information Technology was as follows: Now the interesting part begins. I have to mention that as in the previous article. 3, so here the ERPs, i.e. the monopolies, were extremely active in speaking to opinions other than what we were proposing. The most interesting thing is that they made an application, which is, to say the least, unacceptable and otherwise scandalous. I will quote the shorthand: Mr. Letifov gives the floor to Mrs. Kolcheva: I am representative of EVN. Svetozar Ilazov: I am of the Energo pro. We have participated in writing the texts in question, which immediately raises at least two questions. Who writes the laws in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Members of the National Assembly, who are the importers of this bill, the Council of Ministers and respectively the Ministry of Transport and Information Technology, or private persons, respectively, who are in conflict of interest because the texts concerning these members concern the funds they will receive, the owners of the physical infrastructure themselves? And another. If it is a lobbying law, it is a law written by MPs under the dictation of private interests or private entities, then what is it called a bill that private individuals directly state they were involved in his writing?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u155	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Tishev, I am giving you a line regarding your speech, in his part what the Ministry of Transport and the consequences of this said. You know, Mr. Tishev, that on 2 February, if memory serves, there was a meeting on the initiative of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, where all interested parties were gathered. These interested parties came to the view that the text of the importer should be adopted. So there's no need to make all the other speculations in this room. This is the general opinion of the working group, which, again I say, was set up on the initiative of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The general opinion of the Commission and the interested parties is to adopt the text of the importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Any other lines? The line, Mr. Ermenkov. All I'm asking is that it really is a line to Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u158	Mr. Chairman, thank you for reminding me that it should be a line. I think I've never abused a procedure from the parliamentary tribune before. [[Noise and lines. Announcements by GERB: "Eee! "]] I've taken advantage of the opportunities that procedures give me in a hundred percent, it's true.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u159	You're right, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u160	My line really is to Mr. Tishev. Mr. Tishev, you missed something very important. The important thing is that at the very beginning there were contradictions between the ministries - one that is responsible for the messages - and one that protects the interests of the ERPs. I repeat, the ministry that protects the interests of the ERPs! The interests of the ERPs have clearly won, but in your speech I did not hear you ask the question: how much did this happen for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. You have remained true to yourself. Another line? I won't. Mr. Tishev, you have the right to the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Ivanov, I am not convinced that this article has been agreed. There is no way, given that in the case of the ERPs, but not only they, a state body or network operator has failed to fulfil its obligation by law and has not provided the minimum information, as the law requires at the Single Information Point, then it will ask for an additional price, i.e. payment of additional costs from those who apply for the information. There's no way that's gonna happen because it goes against reason, too. One breaks the law, and then he should be paid extra, not as much as if he had fulfilled the law. On this point, I think no consensus has been reached. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u163	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Will you answer Mr. Ermenkov's line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u164	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u165	No, you won't. [[(Noise. A line from the National Representative Stanislav Ivanov: How can such a thing be?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]] Thank you. Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 103 MPs: 34 against 62, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. And now I'm putting the text of the importer to the vote for art. 11, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 75, none, abstention 20. The offer is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the text, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u166	Thank you. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u167	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of art. Art. 12, Art. Art. 13 and art. 14 as a text of the importer supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 83 against 2, abstention 9. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u168	"Chapter 4' means the provision of access to and sharing of physical infrastructure. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. General rules for the deployment of electronic communications networks and the construction of related physical infrastructure. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u169	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for the name of Chapter 4 and the text of the importer for the name of Section I of Chapter 4 which shall be supported by the Commission. 100 MPs vote: 88, none, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u170	Under art. 15 has a proposal from the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 para. 2 is amended as follows: Each network operator is obliged to satisfy all reasonable requests for access to its physical infrastructure under fair and reasonable general conditions, including a price approved by the Communications Regulation Commission with a view to deploying elements of high-speed electronic communications networks. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u171	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Tishev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u172	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The editing of para. Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 3, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, Art. 2, 15, which we offer, corresponds to art. 3, p. 2 of the 2014/61 directive, which we are actually transposing, gives greater clarity. This one, first. Secondly, the approval of the Communications Regulation Commission will guarantee that the general conditions of the network operator will be the same for all electronic communications networks and their operators and there will be no division in any principle, that is to say, our aim is to have equal conditions and equal access prices for all network operators, that is, operators of electronic or communications networks that apply to the physical infrastructure owner or network operator concerned. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u173	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 28, Against 55, abstention 13. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 15 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 80, none, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u174	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u175	Are there any statements on this article? 16? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 16, which the committee supports. 90 MPs voted: 80, none, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u176	Article 17 "A proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1 after the word, the roads and the words of the natural water basins shall be removed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u177	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Mr. Tishev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! With the editing of Al. 1 in art. 17 we propose to use the experience of the current provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications, namely art. In the case of aid granted by a Member State or through State resources, the aid granted by a Member State shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty and shall be compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 1, thereby achieving the maximum continuity of the two legal acts and from here.. does not give way to the rights which have been granted to undertakings to date. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u179	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov as an editorial in art. 17, para. 1 which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 15 against 52, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 17, which is supported by the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 78, none, abstention 8. The offer is accepted. [[Applause and handshake by the MPs to the guests of the balcony coming out of the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u180	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u181	Thank you. Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the texts of the importer for art. Art. 18 and art. 19 which are supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 79, against 79, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u182	Article 20 supposed by the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Dimitar Danchev, Halil Letifov, Georgi Svilenski and Rosen Ivanov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 20: Art. 20. (1) The rights under art. 15, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 17, para. 1 shall be made available on the basis of a written application by an electronic communications network operator to the network operator concerned indicating the area, elements and/or facilities of the physical infrastructure subject to the rights requested and the period for their use. The model of application shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 5, para. 4. (2) The network operator shall inform the applicant of the deficiencies identified in the application under para. 1 within 14 days of receipt. (3) The network operator shall enter into a contract under art. 15, para. 2 or under art. 17, para. 4 with the applicant within one month from the date of receipt of the written application under para. 1 or from the removal of irregularities under para. 2, unless: 1. there is grounds for refusal under Article 1. 21, or 2. the possibilities for the use of the relevant physical infrastructure.. subject to the request under para. One is limited. (4) In the cases under para. 3, p. 2 within 14 days of receipt of the request under para. 1 the network operator declares its intention to grant rights under art. 15, para. 1 or under art. 17, para. 1 on the relevant physical infrastructure on its website and in another appropriate way, setting a 14-day deadline for submission of applications by interested parties. The network operator shall send the information to the Single Information Point at the same time as its publication on its website. The 14-day time limit for submission of applications shall start from the date on which the network operator's notice is published in the Single Information Point. (5) When within the term under para. 4 no applications have been received from other electronic communications network operators, the network operator and the electronic communications network operator submitting the request under para. 1 shall enter into a contract under Article 1. 15, para. 2 or under art. 17, para. 4 no later than one month after the expiry of that period. (6) When within the term under para. 4 applications have been received from other operators of electronic communications networks and it is not possible to satisfy all requests, the network operator shall refer to the Commission. (7) In the cases under para. 6 The Commission shall adopt a decision subject to the following descending order of advantage: 1. high-speed public electronic communications network; 2. a public electronic communications network for the provision of services with national scope or network to an operator of an electronic communications network for the needs of government; 3. a public electronic communications network for the provision of regional services; 4. a public electronic communications network for the provision of services with a single location range; 5. Electronic communication network for own needs. (8) In the case of applications of the same order which cannot be fully satisfied, the Commission shall assist applicants in reaching a joint deployment and use agreement. In the absence of an agreement, applicants may refer to the Commission, which shall, by decision, give binding instructions for joint deployment and use. (9) The contract referred to in art. 15, para. 2 or under art. 17, para. 4 shall be concluded no later than one month after the entry into force of the decision of the Commission under para. 7 and 8, respectively, after the agreement under para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u183	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? Mr. Tishev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposals we have made in art. 20 are in para. 6, 7 and 8. About para. 6 We believe that, in implementing the provisions of the directive, the highest priority for building should be high-speed networks, and here, by the way, the Commission agreed to this. Because what is the scope of the operator registration action has nothing to do with stating access to infrastructure in any locality. I mean, we're looking at a level playing field here. And in the directive, as well as in the objectives of this Bill, which we have already adopted at the beginning, there are two main posts. One is developing and supporting the development of high-speed electronic communications networks. The other is their development at such a reasonable price, a lower possibility. There is no treatment and no advantage given to whether an electronic communications network is national, regional or local. And this, as previously proposed, creates discrimination between the networks concerned. About para. 7, we provide for the possibility of voluntary settlement of the relationship between the applicants, with which, by the way, we are unloading the Communications Regulation Commission, thus naturally, if it will not come to auction or some ranking, fees due to the dispute resolution authority will be dropped, as I said, the CRC, which is again in line with the directive that we are currently transposing into the Bulgarian legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u185	Thank you. Mr. Tishev, can we explain one thing here, the Commission generally accepts your proposals.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u186	That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u187	Do you think they are incorporated into the text?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u188	Yes, in this case, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u189	In this case, yes, thank you. A line? Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u190	In fact, what you have clarified, Mr. Chairman "the proposals of Mr. Tishev and Mr. Ermenkov have been accepted." They've been transformed, according to the Task Force. What Mr Tishev said was to understand the relevant network operators, and so it is actually a function of the Commission, and whether it will be difficult for the Commission or not, it gives this opportunity for them to come to an understanding at some point. However, if this does not happen, if it likes it or not, we have included the Commission's obligations. That is why I think the text is correct, as we have all united. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u191	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. A hole, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u192	You're right, Mr. Letifov.............................................................................................. 6, there almost coincides with the Commission's decision with our proposal. In relation to art. 7, there with a slight correction, the spirit of our proposal coincides with what the Commission adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u193	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any other statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the text proposed by the Commission for art. 20. They voted 93 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u194	Proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MPs Halil Letifov and Nikolay Tishev under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 21: Art. 21. (1) Network operator receiving a request under art. 20, para. 1 shall have the right to refuse reasoned rights under Article 1. 15, para. 1 or under art. 17, para. 1 on the basis of objective, transparent and proportionate criteria where any of the following conditions exist: 1. lack of technical capacity for physical infrastructure to accept elements of physical infrastructure and/or electronic communications networks; 2. lack of physical capacity to deploy elements of physical infrastructure and/or electronic communications networks in relation to which the rights under art. 15, para. 1 or under art. 17, para. 1; 3. the need to reserve capacity for the network operator's own needs; the criteria for booking shall be specified in the general terms and conditions under art. 15, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. considerations of safety or public health; 5. threat of breach of the integrity and security of each network, including the critical infrastructure defined under the ordinance under art. 8a of the Law on the Protection of Disasters; 6. risk of serious disruption in the operation of electronic communications services or other services by the physical infrastructure operator as a result of planned new services through the same physical infrastructure; 7. existence of economically advantageous alternative means of access to physical infrastructure provided by the network operator and suitable for the deployment of electronic communications networks, provided that access is offered under the conditions of art. 15, para. 2. (2) The network operator shall be obliged to motivate the refusal under para. 1 and send it to the applicant within one month from the date of receipt of the request under art. 20, para. 1. (3) The network operator may terminate access to and joint use of its physical infrastructure on the basis of objective and transparent criteria defined by the ordinance under art. 63, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u195	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? Mr. Tishev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here, with a slight correction, our proposal was accepted, but to justify why we did so. The initial text, which was, anyway, proposed by the importers, is contrary to art. 17 of the preamble to Directive 2014/61. The individual elements of the physical infrastructure have different requirements for booking capacity for technological needs, which cannot, with a certain figure, have offered up to 30%, to be regulated by the Law. In the directive, one to one says: "Art. 3, p. 3 The availability of a space for the deployment of elements of high-speed electronic communications networks referred to in § 2, including the future need for space for the network operator, which has been demonstrated in a satisfactory manner. So in the Commission, we have made and adopted this slight correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u197	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u198	What Mr. Tishev said we found the balance in this otherwise controversial art. 21, which has been postponed, is one of the proposals that specifically concerns the booking of this capacity. It is necessary because the owners of physical infrastructure actually have a basic activity, which should also be maintained, and afterwards we accept the electronic communications networks. So I consider the balance found in this article with the overall efforts of the working group, and we will support it in this form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u199	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission as a text of art. 21. Vote 97 MPs: 95, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u200	Under art. 22 has a proposal from the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Claudia Gancheva according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. The applicant under art. 20, para. 1 or the network operator shall have the right to refer the matter to the Commission if, within the time limits laid down in art. 20 and 21: 1. there is no pronunciation of the network operator on an application made in accordance with art. 20, para. 1, or 2. no contract under art. 15, para. 2 or under art. 17, para. 4, including due to a lack of agreement on access conditions and/or joint use, including price; or 3. a contract under Article 3 has been concluded. 15, para. 2 or under art. 17, para. 4 in violation of the requirements of: (a) Art. 20, para. 1 supplier 6, or (b) a decision entered into force by the Commission under art. 20, para. 7 or 8; or 4. no contract has been concluded within the term under Article 4. 20, para. 9 or 5. a refusal has been made in accordance with Article 5. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u201	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put the text to the vote for art. 22, which is proposed by the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 20. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u202	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u203	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. Art. 23, Art. 24, which are supported by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: for 73, no objection, abstention 19. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u204	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 25, as in para. 1 the words "the applicable norms' shall be replaced by "the legislation in force', and in para. 3 words in accordance with para. The following points are inserted after point 2 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for the application of Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the placing of plant protection products on the market and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u205	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editing of art. 25 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 69, none, abstention 21. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u206	Proposal from the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 26: Art. 26. (1) In the event of an emergency that the removal of which requires damage to an electronic communications network, the network operator in whose physical infrastructure an electronic communications network is located shall be entitled to proceed with the removal of the accident after informing the operator in advance of the electronic communications network operator within a period specified in the general conditions for access to the physical infrastructure in which a representative of the operator shall be sent. (2) The announcement of the emergency situation under para. 1 can be done by e-mail, telephone or other appropriate means specified in the contract. (3) At the absence of a representative under para. 1 within that period or if the representative refuses to provide the necessary assistance, the network operator shall be entitled to suspend or terminate the electronic communications network if it is not possible to remove the accident otherwise when carrying out the due care. (4) For the removal under para. A constant protocol shall be drawn up to be served on the operator of the electronic communications network within 3 days of the occurrence of the accident. (5) In cases of urgency under para. 1 where immediate action needs to be taken in order to ensure safety and public health or to protect human life, notification shall be made as soon as possible after the accident has been resolved. (6) The network operators of physical infrastructure shall not owe compensation to the operators of electronic communications networks for the damage caused during or on the occasion of the activities under para. 1 or 5, unless: 1. when the accident was removed, it was possible to avoid damage when taking due care, or 2. the network operator has not previously notified the operator of an electronic communications network or has undertaken to remove the accident before the expiry of the time limit for the presence of a representative of the operator of an electronic communications network in the cases under para. 1. (7) In the cases of removal or interruption of an electronic communications network under para. 1 or 5 the restoration of this network in its initial functional state shall be carried out by the operator of the electronic communications network under the conditions laid down in para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u207	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u208	Madam President, honourable Members! I must express satisfaction that our two proposals in this article have been adopted. The first thing in para. Two is editorial, so I won't comment on it. After all, let's take a minute of the second. We believe that the network operator should be stimulated not to interrupt the electronic communications network and to inform users of the upcoming activities of the network, thus saving the financial resources of the operators of electronic communications networks and will not deprive the end users of the service concerned. That is to say, the objective that we are setting here is for the owners of physical infrastructure or network operators to treat or take care of good owners of the relevant electronic communications networks that pass through their property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u209	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the editorial of art. 26 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 87, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u210	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27, as in para. 1 the words are replaced by the statement of assurance and in para. 2 the words "sizes' shall be replaced by "schedule to'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u211	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 27 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 70, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u212	Under art. 28 has a proposal from the MPs Halil Letifov and Stanislav Ivanov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 28: Art. 28. (1) Without prejudice to the rights under art. 15, the Commission may impose on the operators of electronic communications networks joint deployment and/or use of physical infrastructure elements, including buildings, common premises in buildings or entry points for access to buildings, and to the first concentration point or distribution point, in case it is located outside the building, masts, antenna facilities, towers and other elements or carrying structures, channels, boxes, cable distribution cabinets on, above or below the property under art. 30, para. 1. (2) The obligation under para. 1 may be imposed for reasons relating to environmental protection, public health and security protection or for the purpose of the territorial device. (3) Before adopting a decision imposing an obligation of joint deployment and/or use of physical infrastructure, the Commission shall notify the interested parties, giving them an appropriate period of time, but not more than one month, of an opinion. (4) When imposing the obligations under para. 1 The Commission may provide guidance on a proportionate allocation of the costs of joint use. (5) When imposing an obligation under para. 1 The Commission shall be guided by the principles of objectivity, proportionality, equality and transparency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u213	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 28 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 71 against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u214	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 29, such as the words..................................................................................... 13 of the Law on Electronic Communications is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u215	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote what Mr Letifov has just read on the article. 29 on the Commission report. They voted 86 MPs: 74 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u216	Under art. 30 has a proposal from the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 30, para. 3 after the word The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 30, as in para. 3 the words "storey owners" shall be replaced by "owners."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u217	Statements? I won't. First, I vote on the unsupported proposal by the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov. Vote 96 MPs: 30, Against 41, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 30 on the Commission report. Vote 87 MPs: 75, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u218	Section II "Services." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u219	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the name of Section II, which the Commission supports. Vote 85 MPs: 76, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u220	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 31, as in para. 7 after the word "supplied', the words "supplied' shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u221	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 31 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: 70, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u222	Under art. 32 there is a proposal from the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 32, p. 1 words - including deviations from these networks to buildings and other land properties - and the comma in front of them - drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u223	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u224	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal we have made feels that it is important to be supported, as it corresponds to art. 31, para. 6, that is, the front member for electronic communications networks for which no waitouts arise. Service only occurs for elements of physical infrastructure. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, which we are currently commenting on, in point. 1 says the following:.......................................................................................................... And in the previous article, in para. 6, which we have already accepted, the following is stated: when granting rights under art. Article 15 17 in favour of the operators of electronic communications networks, no waitouts under this section arise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u225	Thank you, dear Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Firstly, I vote on the proposal of the MPs Nikolay Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov, which the Commission does not support. Vote 88 MPs: 16 against 52, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote art. 32, supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 69, none, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u226	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u227	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the Members supported by the Commission from 33 to 38 inclusive. Vote 97 MPs: 81, none, abstention 16. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u228	"Chapter 5" is an activity-making activity. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter Five.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u229	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's supported title of Chapter Five. 90 MPs voted: 77, none against, abstention 13. The name of Chapter Five is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u230	This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance, maintenance, maintenance and repair of equipment and equipment for the maintenance, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u231	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I vote on the name of Section I, which the Commission supports. They voted 86 MPs: 79, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u232	Under art. 30 has a proposal from the National Representative Halil Letifov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 39: Art. 39. (1) Upon written application by an electronic communications network operator or at the initiative of a network operator, for the purposes of negotiating agreements for the coordination of deployment, maintenance or improvement of elements of electronic communications networks or physical infrastructure, each network operator shall provide the Single Information Point with the following minimum information on ongoing or planned works, deployment or installation related to its physical infrastructure: 1. place and type of activities; 2.Physical infrastructure within the scope of or affected by ongoing or planned construction, deployment or installation activities; 3. a planned date of start of activities and their duration, and 4. contact information with the network operator. (2) Information under para. 1 shall be provided for construction, deployment or installation activities: 1. for which a request for authorisation has been submitted for the development of a detailed planning plan or scheme under art. 124a of the Law on Construction in the Area; 2. which are provided for in a parcel plan or scheme under the Law on Construction of the territory authorised for construction under art. 124a of the Law on Construction on the territory and/or approved under art. 129 of the Construction Act in so far as the approval of a parcel plan or scheme is necessary to carry out these activities; 3. which the network operator plans to start within six months or which are initiated but not completed insofar as the approval of a parcel plan or scheme is not necessary to carry out these activities and is not subject to authorisation in accordance with this law. (3) The network operator shall provide the information under para. 2 of the Single Information Point and lays down a period within which the operators of electronic communications networks may negotiate an agreement under para. 1. (4) The time limit for the submission of applications for the negotiation of an agreement under para. 1 shall not be less than 30 days from the announcement of the information under para. 2 of the Single Information Point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u233	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 39. Vote 87 MPs: 70, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u234	Under art. 40 has a proposal from the National Representative Halil Letifov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 40: Art. 40. With the application under art. 39, para. 1 indicate the area where the deployment of electronic communications networks and related physical infrastructure is planned, accompanied by a description of the investment intention of the electronic communications network operator.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u235	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 40. They voted 83 MPs: 71, none, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u236	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u237	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. Art. 41, Art. 42 which are supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 68, none, abstention 18. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u238	Under art. 43 has a proposal from the National Representative Halil Letifov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 43: Art. 43. Network operators may reject the request under art. 39 if: 1. public access to the requested information is made available in electronic format, or 2. access to this information is already provided through the Single Information Point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u239	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission as a text of art. 43. Vote 81 MPs: for 67, against none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u240	"Department II "Administrative Coordination Agreement ". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. Under art. 44 there is a proposal from the National Representative Halil Lefitov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 44: Art. 44. (1) Network operators may negotiate agreements with operators of electronic communications networks to coordinate activities with a view to deploying elements of electronic communications networks or joint construction or maintenance of physical infrastructure. (2) The operators of electronic communications networks may negotiate agreements with network operators of other networks to coordinate activities for joint construction or maintenance of physical infrastructure. (3) At the conclusion of an agreement under para. 1 or para. 2 the time limits for issuing administrative acts laid down by law shall be reduced by one third but shall not be less than 7 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u241	Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote: the first text is of the importer for the name of Section II, which is supported by the Commission. The second text is the version of the text for art. 44, which the Commission proposes. Vote 87 MPs: 74, none, abstention 13. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u242	Under art. 45 has a proposal from the MPs Nikolai Tishev and Tasco Ermenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Halil Letifov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 45: Art. 45. (1) The network operators shall implement any reasoned request to coordinate the activities submitted by the electronic communications network operators for: 1. the construction or maintenance of physical infrastructure, or 2. the deployment of elements of electronic communications networks. (2) Advantage shall have the activities under para. 1 which is linked to high-speed electronic communications networks. (3) The request under para. 1 shall be implemented by the network operator under the following conditions: 1. does not result in additional costs, as well as delays, for the initially planned activities under para. 1; 2. shall not prevent control over the coordination of activities under para. 1, and 3. is submitted within one month of the announcement of the investment intention at the Single Information Point, but not less than one month before: (a) the submission of an application for authorisation to develop a detailed development plan, including a parcel plan, or a plan, in the case of a joint construction of physical infrastructure; (b) the submission of an application for the approval of the final design by the competent authority in the case of physical infrastructure activities for which a detailed development plan or plan plan is not necessary; (c) the submission of an application for a construction permit by the competent authority, in cases where approval of an investment project is not required; (d) the start of activities announced by the network operator in cases where a construction permit is not required. (4) The network operators under para. 1 declare their investment intentions at the Single Information Point. (5) The costs related to the coordination and implementation of the activities under para. 1 may be proportionately distributed between the parties to an agreement between them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u243	Statements? Mr. Tishev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u244	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposal we made in art. 45 the creation of a new para. 2, and after a slight correction which does not change the spirit of our proposal was adopted in the Commission, it has the following motives, namely: in art. 5, t. 2 of the Directive, which is 2014/61, which we transpose into this new bill, is underlined that: We believe that it is appropriate to place an obligation on network operators financed by public funds to provide such information in the EIT, i.e. at the Single Information Point, where it becomes accessible to operators of electronic communications networks. It is very important to replace such an obligation to submit and in the light of the requirements of art. 45, para. 3, p. 3 and this concerns the time limits that we set ourselves for submission of applications for coordination and which are set at one month after submission of the data to the EIT. In the event that the network operator has not shown an initiative to publish its investment intentions in the EIT, the operator of electronic communications networks could lose the opportunity to participate in the construction of this physical infrastructure, which is financed by public funds. That is, with the change that we propose and which has been supported by the Commission, we place the obligation of the network operator to provide information in the Single Information Point so that interested parties can be included in those deadlines which we, in the same law and in that article, set. And here I open a clamp. The interesting thing is that on this proposal and on several more in the draft the position of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications was quite interesting and I will now read it to you. It has, by the way, made it very difficult for the representatives of the government in the Commission. So, the opinion of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, which is the portfolio ministry and which the representatives of the managers of the Commission take into account, is as follows: Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u245	Mr. Tishev, do you think your proposal has found a place?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u246	I'll get him in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u247	Thank you. Any other speeches? By the way, are there any lines? There are no lines. Statements? I won't. Then I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 45. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u248	Under art. 46 there is a proposal from the National Representative Halil Letifov according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 46: Art. 46. Where within one month of the date of receipt of a request under art. 45 no agreement is reached on coordination of activities, each Party shall have the right to refer the matter to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u249	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the editing of the text of art. 46, which is proposed by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: for 73, against 1, abstention 12. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u250	sixth "Establishment of electronic communications networks and building their adjacent physical infrastructure." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u251	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put the two texts to the vote: the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Six, which shall be supported by the Commission and the text of the importer on the name of Section I, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 77, none, abstention 7. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u252	Under art. 47 has a proposal from the MP Dimitar Danchev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 47, para. 1 the words.. and transmission stations................................................................................................ elements of cable and mobile terrestrial networks. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 47, as in para. 2 the words "the special provisions' shall be replaced by "the provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u253	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u254	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The theme concerning the provision of art. 47, is heavy both technically and legally. So let me briefly explain the problem that should be resolved with the adoption of this article. The idea of this article is to lay down the conditions for granting a building permit and the commissioning of physical infrastructure for the deployment of elements of electronic communications networks. It is said that the receiving and transmitting stations.. without explaining which, what reception and transmission stations are involved................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition, in t. 2 of the Additional provisions of this bill are given a definition of the concept of a communication network. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 10 The additional provisions of the Draft are given a definition of the concept of "physical infrastructure', namely as an element of network network of a network operator, which is intended to deploy other network elements without becoming an active element of the network itself. As examples of such physical infrastructure are provided pipelines, masts, channels, inspection shafts, distribution boxes, buildings or entrances to buildings, antenna facilities, towers and pillars. To clarify, I will use what was said during the second reading of the Draft in the Transport Commission by the experts from the Directorate for National and Construction Control, who explained that under the However, the question remains whether the last-generation stand-alone radio equipment will be perceived as receiving and transmitting stations so that their deployment is carried out in accordance with the Law on the Construction of the Area, or will they be available only under the provisions of this Law? I draw attention to the fact that the registration of mobile terrestrial operators is linked to concepts such as: a mobile station, a station station, a radio equipment, and that, according to generally accepted standards, it is difficult to separate a reception station from the electronic communications network itself as such because it is part of it. Modern terrestrial mobile networks include the so-called small cells, which do not need to build physical infrastructure in the already stated sense of putting up a post and build a mast and so on. They can be placed on the wall outside of a building, on the street pole, at the public transport station. If we go along with the interpretation of a reception station, it is also in essence a reception station, as far as it is part of the network and serves mobile users. However, according to the text recorded by importers, it is not considered to be such or physical infrastructure and it will not be subject to the provisions of the Construction Act on the territory. In this sense, we believe that in order to avoid promiscuous placing of various elements of mobile terrestrial networks without compliance with the order of the Law on Construction in the territory, it is necessary in art. 47, para. 1 The concept of receiving and transmitting stations shall be replaced by the more general elements of cable and mobile network users. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u255	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? There are no lines. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. Before I put the texts to the vote, our guests from the 20th school of Todor Minkov took their seats on the balcony. Please say hello. [[Applause]] . Look how smiley they are! Thank you. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dimitar Danchev and a group of MPs, and the Commission does not support the proposal. They voted 92 MPs: 14 against 53, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. And now I'm putting the text of the importer to the vote for art. 47 with the Commission's proposal in para. 2 the words "the special provisions' shall be replaced by "the provisions'. Vote 94 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 16. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u256	Thank you. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 48.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u257	Thank you. Statements? There are no statements on the text of art. 48. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 48, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 78, against 1, abstention 14. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u258	General rules for the activities of deployment of an electronic communications network and the construction of its adjacent physical infrastructure. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u259	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the text of the importer on the name of Section II, which is supported by the Commission, and the second is the text of the importer for art. 49, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 79, none, abstention 10. The offer is accepted. Please continue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u260	Under art. 50 "A proposal from the MP Milen Mihov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 50: Art. 50. (1) The route of linear physical infrastructure for the deployment of electronic communications networks shall be determined by the detailed design plan approved under the terms and conditions of the Code of Conduct on the territory. When selecting a route, the data from the cadastral map and cadastral registers and specialized maps and registers and information systems shall be used as well as from the available plans under § 6, para. 7 of the Transitional Provisions of the Law on Construction of the Area. (2) Where the route of the physical infrastructure for electronic communications networks is outside the range of the road, a detailed structure plan shall be drawn up. (3) A detailed planning plan shall not be required: 1. where the route of the physical infrastructure for cable electronic communications network is within the scope of an existing road, as well as of the ordered waitouts of electricity lines, pipelines, plumbing and sewerage networks, railway and other linear objects of the technical infrastructure within the meaning of the Law on Construction of the Area; 2. when the operator of an electronic communications network has a new electronic communications network and/or builds a physical infrastructure whose server fully falls into the server of an existing network; 3. when building elements of the infrastructure for the deployment of an electronic communications network from the regulated line of the property in which it is built, to the entry point for access to a building. (4) Approval of a schematic plan to a detailed planning plan shall not be required for: 1. existing physical infrastructure reflected in the cadastral map or cadastral plan; 2. reception stations of wireless electronic communications networks installed in, on, or on buildings, buildings or existing physical infrastructure. (5) Alinei 3 and 4 shall also apply to the departments of art. 1, ) (a.k.a. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-14.u261	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 50. They voted 83 MPs: 68, none, abstention 15. The offer is accepted. Members of Parliament, the next regular plenary session shall be on 15 February 2018 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted weekly Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
