ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday in the National Assembly, there was a proposal from the Prime Minister to vote for resignations of three ministers and replace them with new ones. Since we had made a commitment to you to enter this House quickly, we voted as item two on today's agenda. We expected by the end of the working day a decree from the President for the release of Mr. Mladen Marinov as Secretary General. Unfortunately, the National Assembly has not yet received a decree signed by the President, so I propose that section 2 of today's program be dismissed. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u2	If he doesn't come, then let's vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u3	When the President's decree arrives and we complete the documents, the item will immediately be submitted to the examination room. I put to the vote what I have proposed to drop point 10, which is point two for today. [[DPS lines.]] If the President's act comes within today, the item will be voted again. We're waiting for the President's act. We're voting, guys! They voted 176 MPs: 121, against 23, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include it in our weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly the following additional point: Projects of decisions for changes in permanent delegations. Importer is the national representative Dragomir Stoynev on 12 September 2018. I propose that it be the first item for the plenary sitting on Friday, 14 September 2018. Vote 197 MPs: 190, no objection, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. To the President of the 44th National Assembly. Madam President, on 11 September 2018, the General Assembly of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) voted on changes in the management of the parliamentary group as follows: Releases Zhelyo Boychev as Vice-President and member of the management. He released Georgi Turnovalliski as secretary and member of the leadership. He elected Hristo Prodanov as deputy chairman of the parliamentary group. She chose Irena Anastasova as secretary of the parliamentary group. On the basis of art. 14, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please reflect the changes in the register of the National Assembly. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, I propose that the first item of today's plenary session be directly broadcast on the Bulgarian National Television and Bulgarian National Radio. This is a law, a code that is of utmost importance in general to the existence of the state, of utmost importance to society. These are also the reasons why I propose that the debates and voting on this point be broadcast directly, as I said on BNT and BNR. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Reverse procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u6	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I take the opposite view not to comment in any way on the specific broadcast, but to say that yes, it would be right to broadcast this debate on national media if the veto importer were here, was present and could present his arguments. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal for direct broadcast. Vote 202 MPs: 83, against 65, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u8	Madam President, my procedure is in the manner of conduct. Please remind everyone who speaks here the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly and the Constitution of the country. And when the chair of the Legal Commission, who has to report the arguments of the veto, tries to make it clear that someone is not here, make a remark to him. You can't bring the ministers here, you're talking about the veto importer! [[Noise and lines.]] In that order of thought, I ask you very much not to leave this room in error. I am sure that not everyone should know the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, but this is particularly true of the President of our Legal Committee. [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. I think that all MPs should know the Rules of Procedure. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTRATION OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODEX, ACCEPTED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 25 JULY 2018, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCUSSION WITH SAYN No 201 OF 31 JULY 2018 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF JOL. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. The report will introduce us to Mr. Kirilov, Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 201 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 1 August 2018, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code adopted by the National Assembly on 25 July 2018. and the motives to the Decree At its meeting held on 11 September 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 201 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 1 August 2018, on the return for a new discussion of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code adopted by the National Assembly on 25 July 2018, and the reasons for the Decree. The meeting was attended by the Administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria: Prof. Emiliya Drumeva, Chairman of the Legal Council, Dr. Blagoy Deliev, expert; from the Supreme Administrative Court: Mr. Georgi Cholakov, Chairman; from the Association of Bulgarian Administrative Judges: Mr. Lyubomir Gaidov, Vice-President; from the Foundation...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs Mr. Danail Kirilov reported to the members of the Commission the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and the reasons for it. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President returns the provisions of § 28, § 29 to the National Assembly for a new discussion. 1, § 55 concerning Art. 217, para. 2 sentence 3 and 4 and para. 4, § 57 § 61, § 67, § 79, p. 3 and 4, § 109, t. 1, 2 and 3, § 111, § 113, p. Point (b) of Article 5 concerning art. 75, para. 9th sentence last, § 114, p. 3, § 124, § 125, p. 3, § 130, § 133 and § 148, p. 1 of the Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code, adopted on 25 July 2018. In his motives, the President points out that the rules on family court do not clearly identify the acts of the Council of Ministers, the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Ministers and the Ministers, which the Supreme Administrative Court considers to be the first instance, which could lead to numerous disputes of conviction. It is also noted that the principle of determining the local defendant in dispute with individual administrative acts is amended and the permanent address has been entered as a criterion for determining the competent administrative court. It is stated that the amendment adopted does not take into account the hypothesis of natural persons with a current address other than the permanent one, which may make it difficult for both applicants and administrative authorities whose registered office is different from the applicant's permanent address. In parallel cases in various administrative courts, state authorities should post their procedural representatives everywhere, which would lead to an increase in the costs of administrations. Next, it is noted in the Decree that the examination of cases by a three-member Chamber of the Supreme Administrative Court in open court is determined on the basis of the judgement of the Judge-Rapporteur or by a request made by the parties, which makes publicity an exception from a rule. It is pointed out that the publicity of court hearings is a fundamental principle ensuring the public handling of cases. The presidential veto also contests the regulated fees in the cassation proceedings which substantially restrict procedural possibilities for the full protection of citizens and legal persons against unlawful acts of the administration. The introduction of proportionate fees, as well as the increase of the simple fees in the cassation proceedings, should take into account the right to the protection of citizens and legal persons against the unlawful acts of the administration. The President also objected to the inadmissibility of first instance judgments under some of the special laws laid down in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. It is argued that the abolition of the cassation instance in judicial proceedings in administrative cases does not provide a guarantee for the protection of the rights concerned to citizens and legal persons. It is pointed out that the lack of cassation authority limits the protection of the public interest which the public authorities are obliged to defend. The President shall state in his reasons his disagreement regarding the changes to the acquisition of a pension from judges, prosecutors and investigators and the posting of a Judge of the Supreme Administrative Court or of the administrative courts of the Court of Justice of the European Union, of the General Court of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights. Professor Emilia Drumeva detailed the President's arguments for vetoing the Law, which were presented in four main guidelines: family and local defendants, the possibility of holding closed meetings in the cassation proceedings, raising fees in the cassation proceedings and removing the possibility of cassation contest in some special laws. At the same time, she stressed that a number of amendments made by this law were assessed as positive. Opinions also voiced representatives of non-governmental organisations who disagreed with the increase in fees in cassation production and dropping the possibility of cassation contest in some special laws. Opinions were also presented to the representatives of the judiciary Mr. Georgi Cholakov and Mr. Lyubomir Gydov. They did not agree with some of the arguments of the Head of State relating to the amendments in determining the family and local defendants. According to them, the amendments are fully in line with the Constitutional Court's decision, stressing that it provides for the Supreme Administrative Court to be the first instance when contesting the acts of the ministers and the Council of Ministers with which public authority is exercised, and in all other cases the assessment is left to the legislator. A disagreement was also expressed with the President's view that fees are not determined by law and that this is done for the first time by the Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. According to them, the Constitution provides that fees are to be determined by law, and there are other laws which provide for a specific amount of charges for legal contest. In conclusion, it was noted that the amendments made to the Administrative Procedure Code adopted as a result of numerous and thorough discussions with the MPs, experts from the institutions, doctrine and judges are essential and the objectives set in them will result in a positive result in the application of administrative justice. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Krum Zarkov and Yavor Bojankov. MPs Krum Zarkov and Yavor Bojankov expressed their support for the Ukhaza and the expositions. It was argued that the veto was fully justified, stressing that the increase in fees would limit access to justice, noting disagreement with the dropping of the possibility of cassation in certain special laws, as well as the limitation of publicity by the possibility of holding closed meetings in cassation proceedings. Mr. Bojankov noted that if the changes came into force, the Constitutional Court would be heard. People's representative Christian Mitev emphasized the fact that access to justice is not limited, as the fees in the first instance are not increased. He stressed that, according to the permanent practice of the European Court of Human Rights, it is necessary to ensure that there is an opportunity for access to justice and that in the Administrative Code of Procedure this is laid down, and nowhere is the mandatory two-installed judicial proceedings regulated in administrative justice. Kirilov pointed out that the principle of equality of the parties dictated the amendment, according to which the state authorities should pay a state fee in the cassation proceedings, which will discipline the institutions. He noted that the state fees were reduced compared to the initially proposed ones, as the MPs had complied with the opinions of the institutions and non-governmental organisations that joined the Committee on Legal Affairs. The proportionate charges entered shall be limited. It was underlined that the possibility of each of the parties to request an open hearing in the cassation proceedings was ensured and the publicity of the trial was guaranteed. In conclusion, Kirilov stressed that the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code were subject to wide public consultation, taking into account all the opinions, and noted that the sustainability of the system was provided for a sufficiently long period for the entry into force of the Law. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Council, 7 votes against, and without votes, abstention is proposed to the National Assembly to repeat the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code adopted by the National Assembly on 25 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I am opening the debate on a new discussion of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code. The time for debates shall be on the general rules of the Rules of Procedure under art. 58. You have the floor to speak. Mr. Zarkov, come in. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, we have to review the law again, thanks to the reaction of the President of the Republic. This time it's very important. In the administrative process that we will be dealing with, a citizen or a civil organisation face a decision of the state of a body of state or local authority. In fact, this is the only way for a private natural or legal person to oppose a decision which he considers illegal, but which should otherwise be implemented by virtue of the constitutional hierarchy. In other words, administrative justice is the main means of protecting against those who freely or by wrong judgment abuse their authority and, instead of fulfilling the laws, violate them. The executive or local authority against the citizens is the administrative process. The power, no doubt, in this process is on the side of power. The only protection of the people is the Law and the procedure. If the Law is on the side of the citizen, then any person affected by the decision, regardless of their professional or material situation, can oppose it. The most normal person can stop a minister's act. That is the essence of the issue we are thinking about today. Therefore, the warnings that the violation of the rules of the administrative process can be seen as an infringement of the democratic functioning of our country are not overstated. The commitment of power to the law is the meaning of the concept of a state of government and it determines the difference between free-organised governance based on democratic choice and rules and the power of oppression of one another. Therefore, the veto of the President with regard to the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the APC should be welcomed and supported, and the contested texts should be discussed carefully and assessed again. Why? Because the main signs on which the trial can be judged are violated by the proposed amendments. Who are they? Access to court, publicity of the trial and the opportunity to appeal the decision of the first instance if the country is not satisfied with it. All three scars are seriously endangered. With regard to access to the court, it is obvious that the drastic increase in fees will lead to more difficult access to a court. It is not only obvious that it has been repeatedly felt that the purpose of this change is to unload certain courts. That the fees for the administrative process are subject to change and could be changed in itself is not a problem. The question is how this is done and how much they increase. When you raise hundreds of times one fee from today for tomorrow, that is already a problem. When you nail him with a law so that it stays in here and no citizen can attack him in court, that's a problem! When you try to explain that this way you will fight the abuse of appeals, this is a huge problem, because if we start fighting the abuse of rights by canceling them, this time it will lead to very serious obstacles! Unfortunately, many laws, including procedural laws, can be used unfairly. But that does not mean questioning fundamental constitutional principles! So these texts need to be reviewed and repealed in this form. The introduction of the concept of "material interest" to determine how much going to court will cost, in the administrative process is inadequate and there would be the opposite of those sought by importers if we assume that they are conscientious, consequences. And each of the participants in the Legal Commission, starting from the specialists and getting to the NGOs, through the MPs, explained this thing clearly and understandable! What does material interest in a case that affects clean air mean? This was asked as a question the other day to the majority MPs. The answer was not satisfactory. The material interest in the administrative process is always secondary because the primary interest is respect for the law, and the legality is of interest to everyone, not only the parties involved in the case. The same applies to the publicity of the process. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not news that our judicial system, the institutions in general, including the judicial ones, unfortunately, do not enjoy a great deal of confidence from citizens. How do you think this will improve when we close the process, and in that part of it that is judged not facts, but law? And what does the explanation here mean that, do you see, each of the parties or the court at his discretion can open the case? The principle, including constitutional, is the opposite case is open and someone may ask to be closed. This is not a sufficient guarantee of publicity for the simple reason that we can imagine cases when both parties are not interested in the case being open, and all of us here and outside this room would like to know what is happening. Can we imagine, for example, that a dispute between a concession contract between a concessionaire and a contracting entity would both like to look at it indoors? But journalists, public, affected persons would like to know what the concessionaire's arguments are, how the municipality protects their interest or vice versa. And when we disagree with the first-station decision, they take away our ability to attack him again. The difference between the cassation appeal and the first instance is key. The facts shall be assessed in the first instance and the law shall apply to them. But whether the law is well applied to the facts decides the cassation instance. And that's what we're saying. We say that about 19 laws. We are saying this once again in this legislation because we have been watching this process from the very beginning. We say this in relation to disputes affecting citizens' social rights in relation to disputes affecting access to information in relation to disputes affecting environmental protection. We're actually saying this about every key case that's rocked our society in recent years. And why are we doing all this? Why, when in the rest of its administrative procedural code has reached quality texts, do we persist in this? Why, since for six hours the other day in the Legal Committee all except for the authors of texts explained that they were not good, that they would lead to problems? I don't have an answer to that question! But the president's right to keep looking for him. We'll keep looking for him. There is a solution, and the solution is this: we accept the president's veto, then we review each of the texts once again. For some of the things you can find the right environment, others are conceptually wrong. This conversation is worth it, the rights of our citizens depend on it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Zarkov, you have exposed many of these and almost none of them were true. Almost nothing we've heard today actually doesn't answer the truth and it's not true. First, regarding access to justice. Access to justice exists. I do not know where you have read, for example, that fees are increased in the first instance proceedings, or that cardinally the rules are changed with regard to it, or that someone in any way restricts the possibility to challenge administrative acts before the first instance administrative court? There's no such thing! As for the argument about the publicity of the meetings, I see no problem, all the more so that the Constitution itself provides for the possibility, at the discretion of the legislator, to hold closed meetings. Moreover, each Party will assess whether it wishes to see the case open or closed. However, allow the parties in the administrative process to judge this on their own. Moreover, we must add that, in fact, the Judge-Rapporteur will also have the opportunity to assess, and if he considers the case to be of public interest, he will allow his view in open court. So I do not see a problem with the publicity of court proceedings, even more knowing the way in which the cases are currently being dealt with before the Supreme Administrative Court and where the principle of oralness and directness that you are trying so zealously to defend is, in fact, almost very rarely observed precisely because of the busy schedule and the viewing of numerous cases by the supreme administrative judges. So there is no way to accept your arguments that almost in this way the access to a fair trial is suspended because it is simply not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u15	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line? I can't see. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Mitev, thank you for the line. I didn't expect you to believe my arguments, as my colleagues and I have been pointing them out here for months, both in the Legal Commission and here. But I was hoping that you would hear one more time not from me, not even from the President, but from all the stakeholders who participated in the public debate by starting with the magistrates, by moving on to civil organisations, political forces, lawyers, and you think that no one but you defends the thesis you defend.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u17	It's not true for the judges!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u18	On top of that, I remind you that one of the arguments for raising the fees is that we can look for the transcription of the Legal Commission................................................................................ If this isn't proof that the goal is less to go to court... Understand, the Supreme Administrative Court, of course, must be respected and guarded, but not by the people seeking his decision, but by the people who influence his decision. It's a serious difference. As for the parties to the administrative process, I have tried to explain and I will not repeat that parties to the administrative process, even when it comes to an individual administrative act, are two, three, if there is a prosecutor, but interested in his decision and the way in which it is decided, are all because it is about respect for the law. In this order of thought, we cannot allow only the parties to assess whether and when their sitting can be opened. Finally, as regards the referee. And since President Kirilov imá's kindness to call me to refer to the judges in regard to closed sittings, the Plenum of the Supreme Court is adamant. They say it will only bring problems, that they do not want the help that we impose on them. Please stop helping the judges and the people in general without asking for that help! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u19	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of Parliament, the Parliamentary Group "Movement for Rights and Freedoms" will support the revision of the bill. The arguments in the veto are not new to us. These arguments have been discussed for over a year in the Legal Commission, in the working groups. So there's nothing new in the arguments. However, new was the presence of the guests at the meeting of the Legal Commission on Tuesday. Ninety-five percent of the guests and representatives of the organizations at the meeting of the Legal Committee came for the first time under this bill. Where were they for nearly two years when this bill was being discussed? Where were they? Suddenly, on Tuesday, they showed up to defend the arguments seen by the president's team in the veto. More than 90% were representatives of the famous green octopus. And they, which generate huge revenue from projects and grants, may even envy famous Bulgarian families, who have become notoriously famous in the last few weeks, say that they have nowhere to find 370 BGN. pay a fee for a cassation appeal. This bill was submitted on 1 June 2017, but unlike other bills that lie in the Law, this bill is constantly being worked on. I don't know if anyone can tell how many meetings the working group had, how many meetings the Legal Committee had at second reading, how many scientific workers, judges were present and working on these texts. We have also fully complied with the Constitutional Court's ruling on family court, so there is no way for me to accept arguments. When the Constitutional Court prescribes something, we keep it and apply it to each other in the texts. If you see the report from the second reading of the Draft Law, supported by the Law Commission, nearly half of the approved texts are texts proposed by the opposition, either by MPs from the BSP or by our MPs. So it cannot be said here that there is no hearing, that the texts of importers are accepted. More than 70% of the importers' texts on the original submitted project are not the same, they have been amended. And here I cannot fail to note the substantial contribution of leading professors of administrative law. I will mention Professor Ivan Todorov, I will mention the participation of the President of the Supreme Administrative Court in the meetings of the Legal Commission, the extremely high expertise of judges from the Association of Administrative Judges in Bulgaria. So on this bill were working leading specialists in Bulgaria and there really was an important law supposed to be important to society, as Mr. Popov pointed out in the beginning. I will not dwell on each of the arguments separately, but I cannot ignore one sentence in the reasoning, which suggests that in the case of local defendants, the bill created some inconveniences for the administration. I can't pass up that sentence, colleagues, I don't know how it got into the arguments. Because in all legislation, the concept of the Bill is aimed at the citizen. Isn't it difficult to walk Bay Pencho from the village of Sini Vir, municipality of Kaolinovo, to Sofia to bring a case? And now, with the new amendments, he'll be handling his case in Shumen. Why does this man, say, if he got caught up in an unjust act by the Minister of Agriculture, have to come to Sofia, with a vessel like the sun in the city of Shumen? Why? Isn't that a problem for the citizen? Or should the citizens travel and the administration stay in Sofia?! Therefore, let us pay attention to the citizen and not to the administration. The administration is for this to have some difficulty if it issues unlawful acts. I mentioned the fees. All objections were from organizations that could pay much higher fees. The fees were drastically reduced by the initial project Therefore, we cannot say that the Legal Committee has not complied with these objections. Yes, there are citizens in Bulgaria, unfortunately, who cannot pay these fees. For them, however, a text is provided in the Bill which regulates the exemption from paying a fee if the citizen proves that he is unable to pay it. So these arguments that the citizen has no money and cannot bring a case are absolutely unfounded. I'm not going to stop any further, because we've been talking about these arguments for two years. And I will not allow for two years this bill has not been politicized to now be used for political purposes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Hamid. Any lines to Mr. Hamid's statement? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Hamid, with regard to the vetted text regarding the defendant, yes, he was proposed by us, but on the motive, with the idea of easier access to administrative justice of the ordinary citizen, the legal person who, in this particular case in the administrative process, are placed in a specific respect of authority and subordination. This is the original principle of the administrative process. You speak, I quote, of the green octopus. But here, honourable fellow Hamid, 19 laws are changing and it is not just the so-called green octopus that you call, it is a number of laws of social security, of ordinary citizens, of legal persons. No equality can be made between administrative court proceedings and civil proceedings with regard to the introduction of proportionate fees, as regards the introduction of the term................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The specifics of the administrative procedure are quite different and different. The objectives of administrative proceedings are quite different from those of civil courts. You were right to ask where these organizations were. I do not know where they have been or where they are now, but we are here now, in this Chamber, and we should defend fundamental principles in a rule of law, a democratic state with regard to access to justice, with regard to rule of law. These principles, obviously, are in clear violation of the texts that the President is vetting. All these texts, with the exception of our proposal for defendants, as I said at the outset, are proposed by the importer, by the ruling majority, who is once again trying to usurp all the power in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u24	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear colleague Hamid, firstly, I would like to express my personal gratitude to your active and constructive participation in the working group on this bill. You were the importer of many of the proposals that were adopted, in fact, together with colleagues Zarkov, Popov, Milkov, whose proposals were largely supported. I am taking a line, however, to detail and specify the involvement of civil society organizations. Officially and officially ten civil organisations were presented, of which eight clearly and clearly defined with interest in the environmental sector. They all quoted constantly, irrevocably, in many ways, many times and in different ways and interpretation the opinion of the Association of Parks in Bulgaria, which contains............................. Moreover, you see, if you look at the tables specifically, you will see that they have nothing to do with the notebooks that the esteemed colleague Thomas Belev wrote below. He says: "Here, you can see that the Bulgarian administrative judges are not charged, or "Behold, you see, the Bulgarian administrative judges do not need money and we are third in order to secure, say, the funding to the administrative court proceedings. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I couldn't develop the whole thesis, obviously, that I would have to speak in detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u25	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Hamid, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u26	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Popov! We're talking about access to administrative justice, we're talking about increasing fees, we're talking about changing local defendants. Everyone makes a comparison that a fee of five levs for a cassation appeal, here becomes 70 levs. We're talking about a second instance. No one, however, does the bill of Bai Pencho from Sini Vir, Kaolinovo Municipality, Shumen District, which is already coming to Sofia and spending nearly 500 BGN to lead his case in Sofia, will now spend 3.50 BGN. For a bus to the city of Shumen, and there he will lead his case. Nobody talks about that kind of money. Everyone's talking about that £65. It's a difference. Dear Mr. Kirilov, the opinion of the Association of Parks and all the organizations that were based spoke only on this opinion, and already in the fourth hour of the meeting of the Legal Committee I thought whether we are discussing the veto of Thomas Belev or the President of the Republic of Bulgaria? [[Radio, partial applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u27	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Manev's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u28	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I allow myself to take the floor with a procedural proposal. Dear colleagues, in the last hours in the public domain, the media, among Bulgarian citizens and social networks even began to comment on an extremely disturbing case. [[Replying and shouting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u29	What's the procedure? [[Noise, lines, shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u30	Please be quiet! What's the procedure, Mr. Manev? [[Loud noise.]] Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u31	If you listen to me why I want this special procedure, you'll find out what it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u32	There's no special procedure. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u33	Go on, Mr. Manev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u34	Colleagues, in this Parliament, we all argue to the media, to citizens, to voters that we are responsible politicians, responsible to their citizens of Bulgaria, employees. We cannot remain uninformed when there are rumors in the country that people with charges have left the country illegally. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u35	What's the procedure, Mr. Manev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u36	The procedure, Madam President, honourable Members, is to invite to the National Assembly in this House the highest authority of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Prosecutor General and the Minister of Interior to inform us on this case.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u37	What's your emergency?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u38	A case related to the fact that indictees for racketeering and serious crimes, relatives of Bulgarian lawmakers, have left the country illegally only hours after they have received a change of their measure of inviolation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u39	Form the question to the gentlemen Radev and Tsatsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u40	A case that raises a problem, linking it to the fact that several times already in the public domain is commented on how functionaries of the Bulgarian Socialist Party are trying to influence the law enforcement and judicial bodies of the country. [[Extreme noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u41	Mr. Manev, what is the question to the Minister of Interior and Mr. Tsatsarov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u42	I suggest we invite them to the hall around 11:00 to be comfortable for them and listen to all the data on this case. Is there such a case, is that a fact? What is the real evidence of what happened in the city of Ruse? Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u43	Thank you, Mr. Manev. You want information to be given to the National Assembly by Minister Radev and Prosecutor General Tsatsarov. They will be informed to come to the National Assembly. Please contact Minister Radev and Mr. Tsatsarov at 11.00 to order a hearing procedure in parliament. You're welcome, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u44	Madam President, there is a reverse proposal, so don't rush to give orders. If in every incident, we call Minister Radev or the Attorney General [[(Voices from GERB: ……]] , I really think that we should become some listeners because Mr. Radev also has to answer how, if we want to become a Schengen Member State, of the Schengen area, once again foreigners enter the country without border control? How is it that we have doubts about eavesdropping European politicians here in Bulgaria from foreign services? This is also an object, someone come and give information. That you are trying and perhaps your tactic today to divert attention from the government's resignations will really not work. Please, we have an agenda and let us keep it because what interests Bulgarian citizens is whether they can enjoy their constitutional rights, or at the moment GERB and the majority will take away their constitutional rights in court? This is the big debate, not turning parliament into some kind of circus.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u45	What is your procedure, Mr. Stoinev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u46	If we're going to listen, this is where they have to come, we have a committee to make it happen on the committee. To invite all heads of services so as to assess whether during the European Presidency there was indeed a wiretap of European politicians from foreign services, whether there were also people entering and leaving the country without someone checking them out? The fact that GERB, institutions cannot do their job is not the fault of the Bulgarian people. It's your fault that there really is no statehood. Please, Madam President, if there is such a hearing, this should be in committees, and here to continue our work, because there is a huge bet whether a constitutional right of Bulgarian citizens is currently being revoked? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u47	Of course, Mr. Stoinev, we'll continue. However, there is a request from a parliamentary group to invite Minister Radev and Prosecutor General Tsatsarov to inform us about the case. Procedure Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u48	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In view of the procedural proposal of colleague Manev and the opposition of colleague Stoinev, a different opinion is formed on the issue which should actually unite us because there is a speech for the MP and here is the place to take an opinion and... [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u49	A campaign donor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u50	We will not comment on the donor of a campaign or brother of a Member of the National Assembly. Let the House resolve this matter by voting. That's my offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Svilensky's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, first of all, you have committed a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and Mr. Manev made a five-minute declaration in the form of a procedure. However, it is your right to let some MPs speak, others to be taken away. Either way, you want today to change the subject. You want these ministers not to be released. [[Loud noise, lines and voices by GERB.]] You want to talk about other things, listen to ministers and the Attorney General. My procedure is as follows, Madam President. These people should inform us only of the case Mr. Manev said and of all such cases of paroled defendants who have left the country. Not just for one, but for all cases known to the Bulgarian society. My second procedure, much more important, is to invite Minister Moskovski and to give information about the citizens entering Lebanon via Sofia airport, because yesterday the Ministry of Interior clearly stated that the wines and omissions are in Sofia airport and not in the Border Police. A specific proposal: Minister Moskovski resigned or not, to appear here and explain what is happening at Sofia airport that within a few months dozens of foreign citizens entered the European Union, which we claim to be a stable and serious border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u53	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I'm surprised Mr. Svilensky blames me for taking the floor and not giving the floor. I'm just surprised. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u54	Madam President, I'm taking a procedure in the manner of conduct. See in the shorthand that is currently being held, the arguments that were asked to call the prosecutor and the interior minister to resign: There are rumors in the public. Look at this. That's how the proposal was made. Look at it in the transcript, and you'll see it's true. Please, if we are going to become an investigative body of rumors that are spreading from the National Assembly stands, let's also check the rumors about the biography of one of the candidates for ministers. Let's see if his biography is exactly what they're showing us, or if there's any other... [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u55	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u56	Yeah, that's what you're talking about, because you're letting us out of here and you're calling a resignation minister and a D.A. to explain to us what rumors are spreading to the public. If we're gonna do this, let's do it at least massively. Let us become a National Assembly that calls the administration to explain what the rumors are. So I gave you an example of a minister, not something else. So be serious, and I ask you, when someone here wants to argue something and does it in a way that is not worthy of the people's representation, to make a remark to them. You could have told Mr. Manev, Mr. Manev, we don't deal in rumors. If you have data, give it here. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. I'm surprised you call the Home Secretary and the Attorney General's office. Colleagues, I will put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal to invite the Minister of Interior and the Attorney General on the case, which Mr. Manev noted. Please, voting mode. Vote 179 MPs: 118, against 50, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote Mr. Svilenski's proposal to invite Minister Moskovski as well. Please, voting mode. Vote 176 MPs: 59 against 51, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u58	Thank you, Madam President. Hey, guys, why are you scared? Why don't you want Mr. Moskovsky to come and tell us what's going on? [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Do you have any conscience? [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u59	Form your proposal, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u60	My procedure is, colleagues, to wake up and be equally impartial to both the minister and the other minister. Why did you get scared? That the Lebanese border entered the Bulgarian border without being checked. Say it, Mr. Tsvetanov, come and say it from here! Why are you afraid? Tell me!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u61	There's no fear.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u62	How can there be no fear? Come on, tell your group to support this proposal! [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] What's that?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u63	You don't say what your procedure is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u64	For revoting and supporting, Madam President. What is happening in the National Assembly is a disgrace. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u65	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. I'll put it to a vote, but I can't get my colleagues to support the proposal. Whatever they say, by conscience. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You call on them to support, I call on them to vote on conscience. [[Noise and lines.]] Vote 172 MPs: 69 against 70, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. Please contact the Minister of Interior and Mr. Tsatsarov to order the National Assembly to provide the necessary information. We're continuing the veto debate. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u66	Madam President, honourable Members, as the MPs are very worried and concerned about rumors, we are also worried about rumors in society and therefore we propose to call the President of the Commission for Conflict of Interest to explain whether Boyko Borisov bought his mistress's house in Barcelona or not? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Because there are such rumors in the public domain. If you want to humiliate Parliament to this level, go ahead! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u67	Let's be serious. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u68	I am proposing that the President of the Commission be called for conflict of interest to clarify this rumor, which worries the Bulgarian society. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u69	I'm voting on Mr. Bojankov's proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u70	What offer?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u71	You'll see it from the transcript, because I can't do it again either. He does not clearly define the chairman of which committee he wants us to invite. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u72	There's no such committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u73	There's no such committee, yes. You should have prepared for the name of the committee, Mr. Bojankov. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Vote 165 MPs: 58, against 98, abstention 9. The offer is not accepted. Come in for a re-vote, Mr. Bojankov. I hope you clearly define the name of the committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u74	Excuse me, Madam President, a re-vote, as it has obviously not become clear that it is the Commission that is talking about countering the conflict of interest and withdrawing illegally acquired property. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] Excuse me, prevent conflict of interest. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u75	Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u76	Madam President, because you didn't read the contents...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u77	Mr. Bojankov, I already gave the floor to Mr. Lazarov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Please, you can't take your word for it all the time when you decide. After all, there are some rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u78	Procedure in the manner of conduct, Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I beg you very much not to turn this House into a parliamentary chamber. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let's not blow it! You are voting to call a chairman of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. There's no such commission! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't want this forum to be phantomized. If colleagues do not know which commission to establish, prevent, corrupt, conflict of interest, this is their problem. But please don't put such ridiculous proposals to the vote. By the same logic, I might want to call the President or I don't know what on the Barcelona property register you're putting him to the vote. There may not be a property register in Barcelona, I don't know. But don't freak out!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u79	I get it, Mr. Lazarov. Thank you for this reminder. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u80	Madam President, you are in charge of the meeting and should tell the Members of Parliament what they are voting for, and not say.............................................................................................. That's why you're here, back here, to inform the MPs what they're voting for. Since the MPs do not know what they are voting for, colleagues, the colleague wants to come Mr. Plamen Georgiev.. The chairman of this committee, which you are very proud of.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u81	Which committee?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u82	Which not only us, but you don't know her names. So I say specifically: Mr. Plamen Georgiev the Chairman of your new anti-corruption body to come...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u83	Who is this new organ?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u84	The Committee for Counteraction and Withdrawal and so on, which no one can tell you. Thank you. [[Laughter and lines in the hall. Claps by GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u85	Mr. Svilensky, you appear to be Mr. Bojankov's lawyer, but it turns out you're not prepared enough to say exactly what the name of the committee is. Mr. Popov, state the name of the committee and the name of the chairman of the committee, so I can re-vote what I suppose you want to do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u86	Thank you, Madam President. The National Assembly, which is working on rumors, does not need to name the committee. She may not exist. This is the work of the National Assembly. Here was called the chairman of the committee, who was mentioned here several times by colleagues, as well as his name, to be heard on a particular matter. The question is: did Mr. Borisov buy a house in Barcelona or did he not buy this house and who did he buy it for? Let him explain. That's the question!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u87	Which committee is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u88	It's clear which committee it is. Since we're going to be working on rumors, working on rumors. You're talking here, Mr. Lazarov, and you listened to him...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u89	I listen to everyone, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u90	...that we have profanized the work of the National Assembly, but you did not comment on Mr. Manev when he came here and started asking the National Assembly to work on rumors. If you want to work on rumors, let's work!?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u91	What's the procedure? Your remark was rather in the manner of conduct. You stated it as a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u92	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to ask you to distinguish between a representative and the head of an organised crime group accused by the Special Prosecutor's Office and with detention, a measure under guard. At the moment, what happened just days ago, there is a change of this measure of the brother of the BSP MP who financed the campaign of BSP for the parliamentary elections, and here we are talking about concrete facts, not rumors. [[Applause from GERB.]] Because you are interested in sticking to some rumors to catch some other topic and divert attention from a problem that is facing the Bulgarian society today. Because your MP's brother in question is accused of racketeering, extortion, beatings, organized crime group and is currently facing this measure before the Appeals Specialized Court. However, your MP or his brother has left the country at least what he has as a claim, with a huge amount of money for the Czech Republic. Dear Members of the National Assembly, do you not want to hear the truth about what you represent and that you should also bear political responsibility? You want to hide behind some other publications that have come out in yellow newspapers. Let us be objective and be those who actually adhere to the law. We are talking about the measure that has been amended, the person who has been hidden and the Court of Appeal cannot appear. Do you understand what this is about? He may continue to carry out his criminal activity, wants to hide himself, and we are starting to think that this is not a cover-up from your BSP MP who has helped this thing happen. Because we had a similar incident in Harmanley, where an innocent man in a wheelchair was found guilty of a traffic accident and it turned out that the leader of the BSP had an impact on the authorities of the law enforcement system. Thank you. [[(Voices from the BSP for Bulgaria.) (Applause from GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u93	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Kutev, come in. Procedure or the way?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u94	Madam President, honourable Members! This is where I heard, I don't know who tipped Mr. Tsvetanov off, I was going to talk about AIDS.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u95	Louder. Closer to the microphone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u96	No, Mr. Tsvetanov, I'll talk about you. My procedure, Madam President, is this: we must not lower the National Assembly to what has just happened. You're the person in charge of this, this way of talking doesn't happen. He's happened before you, by the way. In this procedure, I would like to say that you are called back to the National Assembly where it belongs. Mr. Tsvetanov, who has just spoken, has issued more than once sentences from this tribune, as he is doing now, with the claim that he has yet to be seen in another court, he has already issued the sentence. I want to tell you that for such actions of Mr. Tsvetanov the state has paid over half a million leva on my information...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u97	What's the procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u98	...and that's why I'm calling you... [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u99	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u100	...to call Mr. Tsvetanov on the stand to say how many are the cases on which Bulgaria was convicted to pay money for...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u101	The procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u102	Who says it's his fault?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u103	...so published... This is Mr. Tsvetanov's procedure to say how much money the state has paid on his statements. How many times did they go into the houses of some people who were then proven innocent?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u104	By the way, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u105	Yeah. Either resign or come...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u106	Do not make political declarations in a procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u107	You're breaking the rules!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u108	...to explain when the money the state has paid to Borislav Gutsanov, to the doctors of Gorna Oryahovitsa, to all those who you are...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u109	The procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u110	...in your place, get out of the National Assembly. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u111	You're straying from procedure, Mr. Kutev! [[The National Representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u112	Personal explanation? Here's a personal explanation. [[Replys from the BSP for Bulgaria "What personal explanation of the procedure?"]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u113	I have to explain something, don't I?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u114	I thought Mr. Tsvetanov was summoned. Give him the word in the manner of conduct, then? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u115	Dear Mr. Kutev, I remember the period when I was Minister of the Interior, and I can tell you that there is nothing to be ashamed of. [[Applause from GERB]] Because in your period, when you were in charge, there were 18 abductions and you had no effect to counter and limit the suffering of these victims. Just so you know, the group was detained on the third month, and she's currently serving her sentences. Let me remind you of the contract killings of what we call the Killers case. Do you remember when Peter Lupov's murders were committed? Do you remember the murder of Rumen Rachev, which was committed two months before the 2009 elections? Why weren't they discovered, gentlemen? Because you had no jurisdiction and no political will. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Just so you know, the crime has been solved. [[Applause from GERB]] And the people are serving life sentences without the right to trade. This is the worst sentence ever received during the transition! Mr. Kutev, I can tell you that the public believed in the law enforcement system. The legal system received trust from both the European Commission and the Euro-Atlantic partners because we had the political will to fight crime. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u116	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, I'm voting on Mr. Bojankov's proposal. [[National Representative Krum Zarkov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] We're in a voting procedure, I'll give you the floor after that. I will read you exactly the name of the committee, whose chair we should invite: the Anti-Corruption Commission and the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Vote 189 MPs: 77 against 105, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. Do you continue to maintain the procedure? Here you are, Mr. Zarkov, in the manner of conduct. It's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u117	It's the way it's supposed to be. Madam President, you missed the debate, allowed a targeted attempt to sabotage the debate on the president's veto, which will affect the rights of all Bulgarian citizens. This was purposeful, and I suspect that you have been informed of this before, so I ask you very much to leave the meeting and let someone who is interested in the AKP rather than low-profile politics lead it. So I'm asking you to leave the meeting. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] By the way, we got the name of the committee, but we didn't get the name of the Home Secretary. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines by GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u118	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. I am very interested in the Administrative Procedure Code, veto and debate, so I will stay and continue to lead. We'll continue the debate. Please return to the first item of today's agenda. You have the floor for speeches, fellow Members, come in. Mr. Popov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u119	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! With the amendments adopted to the Administrative Procedure Code, fundamental principles in administrative proceedings are seriously affected. This is judicial review of unlawful administrative acts, institutional control of judicial acts, access to justice, publicity of judicial control. The amendments to the Administrative Code of Procedure ignore constitutional principles of publicity in court proceedings, and this principle becomes exceptions in administrative matters, which are essentially cases of exceptional public interest. Turning this principle back into Roman law creates a feeling in the countries of proceedings, and in society that judicial control is done in the dark. The argument on procedural economy is absolutely unfounded and cannot oppose the public interest, moreover, that in the debates on the adoption of amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code it has become clear that the introduction of this principle will in practice hinder the proceedings and will not speed it up. Judicial control of executive acts is of particular and extreme importance for the separation of authorities and for the balance and mutual control of authorities. The limitation of the cassation appeal in administrative cases once aό with unduely high fees is 14 times for natural persons and 74 times for legal persons, will limit access to administrative justice, which is, on the other hand, one of the guarantors of the rule of law and democratic state. The attempt to introduce the principle of the so-called "paid justice' is laid down in civil proceedings with the introduction of proportionate fees and the term "determinable material interest' is absolutely not taken into account for the specifics of administrative proceedings. It does not take into account that this is not just a service provided by the State but is one of the fundamental guarantors for the rule of law, for the rule of law and for the democratic state, a state in which the executive and its acts should be controlled and controlled publicly. These amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code are yet another attempt by the government to usurp and fully subdue power, which they clearly understand as a single and self-sufficient whole, contrary to Montesquieu's principles of separation of powers, with the principle that power, power deters and controls. Overcoming the president's veto will be another nail, esteemed rulers, nailed by GERB by you, by your partners, in the coffin of statehood, democracy and legality. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u120	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Are there lines?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u121	To extend the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u122	For an extension of time, I'm just gonna ask you officially.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u123	I would like to extend the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u124	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? There are no lines. We'll continue with the next speech. Are there any other speeches? Am I to understand that there are no other speeches in this House? You have the floor, Mr. Bojankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The important thing here is, and here two years ago, we had this debate in this room when the government made the proceedings uninstantiated. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] One-instant appeal for EIA and major infrastructure projects. And what did you say? This is an exception, so as not to stop work on major projects. [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Ivanov.]] Mr. Chairman, please don't replicate me from the front row if they want to go out on the stand. What did you say? That's an exception. What has become the exception? As a rule, because you now appear with another bag of single instance regimes, closed meetings and hundreds of times increased fees that hinder access to justice not according to opposition, not according to president, employers' organizations, the Ministry of Justice, the Prosecutor General's Office and the entire non-governmental sector. On the shores of this decision, the rulers are absolutely alone in their stubbornness. Why the stubbornness? Because they say to the citizens, "In this court, in which there is power with the citizens, do not hang around our feet, you will not appeal to us the acts. " - This is exactly what is in the transcripts of the committees, less cases, less appeals, because someone has abused. There is a line that pursues this abuse, and civil rights cannot be revoked for this. What do you think, gentlemen in charge, comes to the point of tyranny and nonfreedom by clicking your fingers? No, with such small steps, because you once convinced us how this is only an exception, for one thing in the interest of the state. Today this thing has become a rule. Tomorrow? It's clear the direction you're leading us, and it's the direction of nonfreedom.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Bojankov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u127	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would also like to say, Mr. President, because we are discussing an act by the President of the Republic, which he has motivated and on which motives I would like to take an opinion. At the risk of being annoying because these arguments have already been brought to your attention, they have been the subject of judgment in this House through more than two votes. In an attempt to be more specific about the work of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I would say that the Committee on Legal Affairs has had 15 meetings at which it has discussed this bill. We cannot say exactly the number of working group meetings that discussed the broad, multi-dimensional matter that concerns amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code. I will thank the President of the Republic in the part of his motives in which he declares and admits that much of the amendments... I'd like to quote, but I'm obviously going to rephrase. Much of the amendments are positive, much of the amendments should be supported and contribute to the development of the administrative process. I believe that this objective assessment should also have shown in terms of the punctuations that we are currently discussing before you. I will not comment that the President has replicated, vetted and provisions that concern the status of all judges, not just administrative ones. He has challenged our proposals, which have been adopted, including with your votes, colleagues from the opposition, with regard to the pension rights of all magistrates, judges, prosecutors and investigators. I'm guessing that the momentum has misled our colleagues from the Presidency, and they have also included these norms in their analysis. I am also astonished to note that in the Act nowhere, but nowhere, speaking about the state fees, there is no comment on the fact that it is obvious and is seen even by the text that is published in the Official Journal and was brought down by colleague Hamid, but none of you mentioned that all social and health insurance disputes and compensation disputes have a separate fixed state fee, which amounts to BGN 30 and from which can also be released the person who appealed the relevant act. That is, we believe that here we also agree with your social views for special protection in some special cases of disputes when it comes to special social rights. It was fair to discuss this and take into account the motives, as well as your approach, when you decided to manipulate the public awareness that, you see, something radically different is happening here, production becomes expensive and unattainable. Colleagues, the proceedings will once again be entirely, mainly and in a large part financed and subsidised by the state budget granted to the budget of the judiciary, that is, this is still a free production. I very much wanted to comment on the financial justification and the reduction we made in the debate. Because, look, within the debate in the working group, not even in the Legal Commission yet, I think we have reached consensus and balanced our proposal for state fees, which was significantly higher than what we are currently discussing, than what we have adopted. Moreover, we all forget that when it comes to proportional fees, we also have a limit there. The exact estimate is: refer 4 to 0,6. This is the correct estimate. Six and a half times lower is the price than in the common civil process. In the debate you continue to neglect the fact that in order of European countries administrative proceedings are charged in exactly the same way as common civil claims and applications are charged. To make it clear to everyone, I'm going to give as simple an example as possible. If your neighbor claims property for your residence and claims your residence is, let's say, with an estimate of 100 thousand. BGN, it will import, first, 4% "four thousand," for a second instance will import another 2% "two thousand," for a cassation instance will import another 2%, i.e. the total amount of the state fee in civil court proceedings is 8%. Compare these fees in administrative proceedings with our fees in general civil production. All lawyers know that the Civil Procedure Code applies subsidically to the Administrative Procedure Code and the unresolved issues there. I'll also say a few words about the cassation appeal. Yes, here, speaking of fees, you always conveniently miss out on the fact that it concerns a change of fees only in the cassation proceedings, that is, since we have already had one ruling, a direct judicial review of an act which has been controlled at two levels, one time under administrative control and a second time judicial review by the administrative court. With regard to open, open or closed meetings of the cassation appeal? Dear colleagues, we have very carefully sought to comply with the Bulgarian Constitution, as well as art. 6 of the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, with which you manipulate. Yes, the citizen is entitled to an open trial. That's what the European Convention says. That's what we've kept and guaranteed. Colleagues, this is about a citizen's right, which in the APC text we have preserved. We've said that when you want an open trial in cassation, you just say you want an open trial and it automatically becomes open. It becomes automatically discovered only by stating that it wants an open trial. The example that colleague Zarkov presented to your attention. Yes, colleague Zarkov, both parties may feel an attraction to the closed process, but then the court respects the public interest. The Court considers that, in the interest of public interest, the sitting in that proceedings must be open. In the Law, we have also guaranteed this opportunity. Upon full consent of all the participants for closure, the court may say: "No, the process is open. I want to see the parties, to hear them directly and immediately, and not to read them the written observations. Why, you said, have we intruded on the judges and why won't the judges? They don't want to, because they have to read the case earlier. Yeah, that's what we're imposing on them. We say to them: "Dear Supreme Judges, yes, we accept this to save some time from scheduled, notification and notification of an open hearing, but you are obliged to read your case as soon as it comes to you, when you will form it, to see what the parties have asked for and what the subject matter of the dispute is, to assess whether the process should be opened. " - Yes, we burden them, but we burden them proportionately and proportionately. We say: "Yes, at the expense of this load you will save procedural time for the cases when..........................then you will save procedural time for the cases when.............................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u128	They won't save up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u129	Judges are bound to obey the law, and we are bound to despise that they obey the law. By the way, in the reports that Toma Belev from the Association of Parks in Bulgaria points out, the Bulgarian administrative judges are third or fourth in the speed of administrative court proceedings among all 28 European countries. In this case, please consider this circumstance. It is also not true, as stated in the reasoning that the practice of the European Court of Justice is in the opposite direction. In this sense, we also point to the decision in the Monnell and Morris case against the United Kingdom, 1988, Ecbatani v Sweden, case No 10465/83 of 1991, as well as other cases in this regard. In order not to take up too much time, I will also focus on the third more significant issue, which concerns the uniformity of some of the proceedings. Colleagues, you didn't bother and we continue to argue in the Transitional and Final Provisions of the AKK, how much special law do we change production from two-instant to one-in-a-station? I keep telling you it's four plus one cases. I say four plus one, because in the fifth case it is about the Law on Underground Treasures, where production is still one-stopped. In which cases have we all judged and voted in this House............................................................................................................................................................. These are the cases of employment when the employer has imposed punishment. Notice, this is only the punishment in the service, but not its termination. Yes, these are cases where the public danger, the intensity of the public interest is not excessive and there is sufficient to have uniform judicial review in so far as to review the correctness of the act and possibly the previous administrative control in relation to that act. Another such case is the case of compensations which have a temporary nature, given that their determination is on an annual basis, and the process, if it would be a two-instant and included cassation instance, it would in any event pass the time of the process period, so we have considered that these disputes should be one-instance. We have commented on many of the comments you did not comment on, but we have commented on the case with the Law on Access to Public Information. Why? Because there we have the opportunity and most often speculate with it immediately, even within the framework of the ongoing dispute and process, about whether it is lawful to refuse access to information to release a new request for public information, including refined, including specified information. Most often the cases in which the court rejects such requests are due to the lack of their particularity or the inability to guide the applicant with the scope of the limits laid down in the special law. So this is also your thesis of mass change in the uniformity of the proceedings, in my opinion it is definitely not holding back. I will allow myself to say a few words in the final, and for, you called it the public discussion on Tuesday the 11th in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I have already said in Mr. Hamid's reply that representatives of ten organizations have proved to be environmentally friendly. These organisations were obviously involved in the debate, which had been held more than a year ago under the Environmental Protection Act and had put forward opinions on this issue. That is why it happened that the debate in the Legal Committee actually retro-arged to that dispute and that legislative procedure that took place about a year ago. Once again, the facts and circumstances were interpreted intentionally and prejudiced in order to bring forward the unpredictable conclusion, the objectives of the importers are untenable, they are impossible, the financial justification is not correct. I repeat, this is from the debate a year or a year and a half ago. I see that colleague Kostadinov of your parliamentary group is not listening to me and is currently busy with something else. I recall, he witnessed both the debate and the references we discussed at the time. Out of eight projects of national importance, six were delayed from three to five years due to pending legal proceedings. I won't comment anymore. I'm not going back to the Parks Association or anything else. By the way, I state that unlike Thomas Belev, I have no conflict of interest either in the environmental part of the amendments to the APC or in any other part. With Toma Belev, when he was Director of Vitosha National Park and I District Governor of Sofia, I worked in principle and well, and I think in defence of the state and public interest, and of the environmental interest. And I believe that if he continued this responsible line and position in his manifestation as an activist of civil society organizations and movements, his analysis would be objective and impartial. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? First line, you have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, in your justification for your motives not to support the President's veto, you are very one-sided about issues related to citizens' rights. When you affected the incapacity benefits, appeal to the benefits, you affected their lower value, but did not affect the most important, you did not affect that with the paragraphs in the "Transitional and final provisions". s. 124 and 130, you deprived people of the possibility of a cassation appeal. And since I have heard your arguments with the temporary nature of these benefits, do you not believe that removing the possibility of a cassation appeal in your arguments is based on measures to improve administrative justice and its acceleration, of the temporary nature, of the intensity of the public interest? I wrote down a few of your so-called very helpful words that in no case improve the fact that you are taking away citizens' rights. I also have the impression that they are dictated, I do not say out of hatred, but most likely by neglecting citizens and their very constitutional right to seek protection of their fundamental rights in the administrative process. By withdrawing the cassation appeal, you are weakening the right to protection. And this intention to censor the right to access a court, and that purpose is also apparent in your motives. These texts against citizens' right of access to a court answer the question why trust in the National Assembly is so low. The non-apprehension of the first instance judgments on disputes over incapacity benefits, for work, for maternity benefits, for unemployment affect the rights of people in the most difficult and difficult situation. And don't make excuses for their temporary nature. Do not justify the low fees, because you are affecting the most vulnerable part of the Bulgarian population. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kirilov, we have been having these disputes with you for a long time, so not essentially, but I would like to draw attention to two things. The first is your claim that you help magistrates by burdening them with reading cases is offensive at least to them. I assure you, magistrates read their cases without your help. Secondly, and perhaps more importantly, we have a radically different perception of what public discussion is about. Firstly, the people you accuse of disagreeing with them, as this is your charge of them, have mainly sent their opinions far before they come to the Commission. Secondly, you once and for all as a political force must define your attitude towards the civil sector. You cannot, on the one hand, write strategies for civil society and show yourselves particularly democratic and, on the other hand, when this civil society, formed in the way it is formed in relation to the Bulgarian law, came and told you that you are wrong, to start pushing them, crushing them and not liking them. You can't quote the same person when he's saying something you like, and the same person being some kind of criminal when he's saying something you don't like. Non-governmental organizations are related to the Bulgarian law. They are either legally registered or not, and they have the rights that the law gives them. You, as President of the Commission, are the one who evaluates who invites, how he accepts them, how he listens to them. It is not a public discussion to bring everyone together to say the word and to do what we have previously decided, but to try to understand the arguments that, by the way, are the same between civil society, magistrates in the vast majority of this veto, political forces, your opponents and all but you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u134	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Third line? Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u135	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Kirilov, obviously your speech was incomplete, judging by the previous lines. Clearly, you should have made it clear that there is no denial of justice, no denied access to justice. At the risk of repeating myself, but clearly I will have to repeat that access to the first instance is maintained as is that the fees in cassation proceedings, albeit increased, the Code provides for a mechanism for exemption from this increased amount of these fees, namely for materially difficult citizens. You may also have to point out that, in fact, in many countries, for example in Germany, there is the material interest challenged by BSP colleagues and the President. And there's hardly anyone talking about refusing administrative justice. Perhaps you should also focus on the fact that the discussions in the Legal Commission do not say that they did not contain, unfortunately, all representatives of civil society, with few exceptions, they mainly contained representatives of environmental organisations, which basically repeated a single opinion, which you also quoted from Mr Toma Belev. So, I hope that, once again, you will make it clear that there is neither a withdrawal of citizens' rights nor a deprivation of access to a court, much less a violation of constitutional principles, which attempts are being made to inspire themselves in this Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u136	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Lord Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u137	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, colleagues who made speeches! I will try to respond to each of the objections in your lines. As regards the opinion of my colleague Klisurska, she quoted two paragraphs...................................................................................................... Paragraph 124 concerns the change to the Social Security Code, which is for judges, prosecutors and investigators. There we have not changed the way of appeal, so I think that you are basically referring, in principle, to the Social Security Act. As regards § 130, which is a change, Appendix 13 are created two new "six and seven." I will allow myself to read them in order to illustrate in fact what you object to. Alinea 6: "When the Director of the Regional Directorate of Social Assistance " did not rule on the complaint or reject it, the order under para. 2 may be appealed to the administrative court concerned under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The decision of the Administrative Court shall be final. That's the change. But you can see that the decision is primarily subject to judicial review. Alinea 7: "When the Director of the Regional Directorate of Social Assistance (SCI) has decided on the substance of the matter, his decision may be appealed to the relevant Administrative Court again in accordance with the APC. The decision of the Administrative Court shall be final. Colleague Klisurska, I think this is entirely in line with the arguments I have developed before you. Yes, it is a dispute about social security law, but it concerns a right which is limited within a certain insurance period, that is, temporary law. So what's the problem?! We've got judicial review again. Why should this right necessarily have to be submitted for subsequent cassation control by the Supreme Administrative Court? That's three or six benefits. Why underestimate the first instance administrative court? With regard to the analysis of colleague Zarkov for the participation of NGOs through written opinions. Colleague Zarkov, from the Association of Parks, the opinion is from 3 September. The opinion of the Blue Link Foundation, Program "Access to information" is from 10 September 2018, i.e. from Monday. Mr. Mitev, I'm sorry that the time has not come to confirm, as you requested, the messages I had to make. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mrs. Ninova, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u139	Dear Bulgarian citizens, today we have a dispute about your basic civil rights. President Radev, "BSP for Bulgaria." Other political parties outside the parliament, more than 50 civil organisations, experts and lawyers-constitutionalists disagree with the proposal submitted by GERB, supported by the United Patriarchs and DPS. We do not agree with the following several main proposals under the Law, which we believe restrict your civil rights. Firstly, with these proposals, the current principle of the rule of law, the constitutional order of the meetings in which you defend your rights against acts of power, any of which comes from any party, so that for these meetings the principle so far has been to be opened and, exceptionally, closed. This is now being reversed. The call becomes closed meetings, exceptionally and upon request opened. The second thing we don't agree on. The amount of simple and proportionate fees is increased when you want to defend your civil right against an act of power or a decision of power, whoever it is, I stress again. Because this is not about party interests, it is about statehood and principles of constitutional order. They offer if you are a citizen of Bulgaria, and so far, to protect one of your rights you have paid BGN 5 from now on to pay BGN 70. It's 14 times more expensive. And if you are a non-profit entity, you can pay such a fee 74 times higher. We don't agree with that. The third one. Until now, you have had the right, if you do not agree with the decision of the first instance, to appeal before the above court, you will no longer have that right if this law passes. One instance and whatever the court decides. Of course, there are other changes, but these are the main ones that affect every Bulgarian citizen, regardless of his political, ideological attitude, social status and so on. The conclusions. What will happen if this law is passed and, as it goes, it will be adopted a second time because it is imported by GERB and supported by the United Patriarchs and DPS? The decisions will be made in the dark as regards your rights. Power provides its solutions in the dark, you and society will not have enough information about what is being made as a decision, journalists will not have. This is a violation of the principle of access to information. Secondly, many of you will not be able to defend and seek rights, because the increase in fees will not be more likely for those who want to challenge an act of authority to grant social benefits. We know who people are applying for social benefits, who are socially weak. If you needed BGN 5 to do so by now to seek the rights, you will need BGN 30. Six times! Have you increased the incomes of the people who are esteemed in charge so much? We are also talking about that group of Bulgarian citizens who are socially weak, young families who want to challenge the decision on maternity, people who want to challenge the unemployment benefit, that is, unemployed, this group of society. Previously on BGN 5 and now BGN 30.!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u140	They're exempt from a taxi.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u141	How much did you increase their income? Isn't the increase enough for water, the increase that comes from 1 October of energy carriers, an increase in commodity prices, food prices, and now this, especially for this group? The next consequence of these decisions. Limiting a person's right to seek justice for all the institutions as the Constitution commands. I'll set an example again. Dear Bulgarians, if you have private property and the power decided to alienate it to you to give it to a close to the power oligarch to make there concession for mining of underground wealth, so far you had the right to appeal it to two instances, and now you have not. You are deprived of the right to use justice in two instances. That's what we call limiting access to justice. In the end, as conclusions for us. The principle of separation of authorities is mainly violated. We believe that this is a serious blow to our rule of law. We believe that this is a serious violation of the state and its foundations laid down in the Bulgarian Constitution. And here there is no GERB, BSP, DPS, "United Patriarchs", today they manage some, tomorrow others, but with these norms you bet the protection of the authorities from the rights of the Bulgarian citizens. With these norms, no matter who will rule, you are facing a country against a people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u142	Time, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u143	It is no accident that different people, different parties, experts and civil organisations are against this. Because there is no party here, there are principles here, there are human rights and I am surprised that you, of course, the European Party, are violating the Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms... [[(Comments from GERB:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u144	Time, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u145	...and the Charter of Rights in the European Union. Therefore, if today you pass this law, in the name of the Constitution, the rule of law and the protection of the rights of Bulgarian citizens, we have prepared and signed the complaint. [[shows it]] to the Constitutional Court. On the day on which this law is promulgated, we bring the complaint to the Constitutional Court in the name of the power of the Constitution, the rule of law and the protection of Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u146	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Any lines to Mrs. Ninova's statement? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u147	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Perhaps more than twice I have emphasized, pointed out, explained, and I would like to read the text directly, so that you can see absolutely all of you in respect of § 57. 2: A State fee for proceedings shall not be paid by citizens for whom it is recognised by the court that they do not have sufficient funds to pay it. When examining the application for exemption from the State fee, the court shall take into account the income of the person and his family, the property status, certified by the Court of Justice of the European Union, as well as the written declaration only....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Point 3: The family situation, the health situation, the employment rate, the age. And notice the last, which is vastly wide! ? and?: other relevant circumstances............................................................................................. Dear Mrs. Ninova, we claim that we have provided, without you even knowing, and although you are misleading the audience, we have provided adequate social protection to all individuals in an uneven position. [[Applause from GERB.]] And we have done it in such a wide range for the first time in all our procedural law. Compare it! You claim to be a lawyer compare it with the similar norm of the Civil Procedure Code, which is three times more restrictive. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? For the coat, Mrs. Ninova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u149	Mr. Kirilov, the facts you say are true, but think about what's behind them. [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] You're transferring the burden of proof to the citizen. Have you heard how many things I've listed? Evidence of income.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u150	Affidavit.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u151	Okay, with a statement. Family situation, health situation, employment and so on, there is more. So you're transferring to this man the evidence of all these facts from his status.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u152	It's not evidence, it's a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u153	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u154	How long does the trial require the court to decide whether it is socially weak?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u155	Just one application.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u156	How much money does he have to pay?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u157	It's just an application!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u158	Why are you putting this burden on people? How did you increase your income to burden them with these things?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u159	I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u160	And the procedural time in this case will not extend the time limit for resolving such cases? It'll lengthen them! We continue to argue that with these proposals you are affecting vulnerable groups by burdening them with additional obligations and instead of priors and in principle being able to defend their rights, you are now saying to them: "Or you pay 6 times more expensive, or you ask the court to release you from this payment, but you will prove that you are socially weak and you will wait for the court's decision in a few months. Where's the justice in that? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Once again, you withdraw a state and state institutions from the commitment and transfer them to the people both financially and temporally and in any other way that we claim to seriously affect their rights. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u161	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Other speeches, colleagues, are there any? I can't see. I'm closing the debate, moving on to the vote. I re-vote the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code adopted by the National Assembly on 25 July 2018. Vote 215 MPs: 146 against 69 abstentions. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, on the grounds of art. 86, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly have over 121 votes for the National Assembly and the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Administrative Procedure Code has been re-accepted. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within 7 days of its receipt, according to art. 101, para. 3 by the Commission. Negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against this law for three main reasons. Firstly, because this law will reduce the possibility of protecting the rights of citizens and legal persons concerning acts issued by the position of power and requiring obedience. We've explained this to you several times. These provisions will adversely affect the role of administrative justice to be a protector of the ordinary person against unlawful acts and the arbitrariness of the administration, that is, you, by this law, justified the rule of administration over the rule of law. And we explained that to you. And finally, because this law once again proves that today's governors are protecting the interests of their court firms, which are already covered from head to toe with state pie from public procurement, and this is what you do at the expense of the common man once again. Today, gentlemen of government, you rejected the President's veto without listening to his arguments, without listening to our arguments, but tomorrow, when the people vetoed your government, you cannot reject it. [[(Voice: "Bravo, Tasco!" (Applause from "BSP" for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u163	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. [[National Representative Danail Kirilov wants the floor for procedure.]] Second negative vote, please, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u164	I voted, honourable Members. [[Noise in the room.]] A number of legal arguments have been made for eight meetings for the second reading of this law. Everything was done in a long and high legal language by the government, with countless proposals between first and second readings, so people failed to see the whole picture of what was currently adopted. We have called on you to look at the process as a whole, we have called on you to look with the eyes of people who see not only the whole but also the future. What has been adopted today also limits the publicity of the process, limits the accessibility of the process and will result in people who are unable to actually get justice because the justice system is the only one that can stop Leviathan. That's what they told you. Unable to stop Leviathan from the justice system, people will stop him. How? With your hands. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u165	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Third negative vote? I can't see. Mr. Kirilov, procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u166	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! In view of approaching the time of 11.30, I am making a procedural proposal to postpone the recess in the plenary session until the hearing of the Minister and the Prosecutor General is completed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u167	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Popov, please come back for a proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u168	Thank you, Madam President. I am making a counterproposal: there is nothing to listen to a resigned minister. He's got his resignation in his pocket. Besides, listening to rumors here, as the importer put it, doesn't make any sense. We will not be listening to what is said by the minister in resignation on rumours anyway, I repeat, so let the National Assembly have its regular rest, which is announced at 11:30. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u169	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal to extend the time to the hearing of the Attorney General and the Minister of Interior and then to take a break. Vote 176 MPs: 98 against 65 abstentions 13. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I give the floor, first of all, to Minister Radev to inform us about the situation on the question so put by Mr. Manev. Just information, colleagues. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u170	Thank you, Madam President. [[The Bulgarian People's Representatives of BSP are leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u171	Wait for the colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria to leave the hall. [[Replies between Dragomir Stoinev, Svetoslav Ivanov and Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] Colleagues, if you're going to leave this room, I'm gonna have to ask you to hurry. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev to Chairman Tsveta Karayancheva.]] I'm keeping an eye on the order in this room, Mr. Stoinev. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Mr. Stoinev, Mr. Stoinev, please! Mr. Stoinev, you're disturbing the court. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u172	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm here to introduce you to what's happened since the 10th and 11th 2016. Working on an organized crime group, information that you, the MPs, wanted to hear. On November 10, 2016 in the Directorate-General for Organized Crime is received a signal that the person Ilija Georgiev Stoilov, I allow myself to announce the name and I, as it is in the press, is the head of an organized criminal extortion group, for racketeering, assaulting, soliciting prostitution. [[Speak and lines from GERB.]] For verification of the operational signal, an operational case has been opened...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u173	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u174	...of the 17th, seven days later. In the course of working on the operational case it is established that the leader of the group is Ilija Georgiev Stoilov, address registered in the town of Ruse, known to the Ministry of Interior under art. Art. 209, Art. Art. 212a, Art. 212a. 319b, para. Art. 3 and Art. 325 for hooliganism, para. 1 and so on from the Penal Code. As members of the organized criminal group are identified individuals who intimidate, blackmail and racketeer persons on the order of Iliya Stoilov. These are the faces, A.S.V. Unknown to the Ministry of Interior, works as a security guard in the institutions of Stoilov; M.M.M. "Unknown to the Ministry of Interior; M.T.V. Unknown to the Ministry of Interior; T.B.T. I don't know. The members and leader of the group shall be subject to appropriate operational and search activities. A reference has been prepared from the information collected in the operational case, which has been reported to the Special Prosecutor's Office. The Prosecutor's Office of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office of 5 April 2017 has established pre-trial proceedings, according to the description of the General Directorate of Organized Crime. It is established on the basis of the data received on actions in the territory of the town of Ruse of an organized criminal group, created for a victual purpose and for the purpose of committing crimes under art. 321, para. 3 and 2 of the Penal Code. In the course of the work on pre-trial proceedings, persons who suffered from the criminal activity of the group who were questioned as witnesses were identified. It was found from the interrogations conducted that related to the criminal activity of the group are the persons: K.I.D., address registered in the city of Ruse, respectively, known to the Ministry of Interior, under art. 325, 343b, 343 of the Penal Code; B.B.V. Also from the town of Ruse, unknown to the Ministry of Interior. On 14 October 2017, a specialized operation was carried out by the staff of the General Directorate of Organized Crime (CSD) under the direction of the Specialized Prosecutor's Office, during which the persons were detained: Ilija Georgiev Stoilov, who was referred to as the leader of the group, not to list the initials again, the total number of persons here is eight, including the wife of the leader of the group. In the course of the investigative procedure, searches were carried out at 15 addresses. Six searches of faces have been carried out and the following physical evidence has been seized: four guns, of which one fighter; one, remade into a fighting gun, and two gas pistols; four metal batons and one bat; one electroshock gun and the next one I'm going to read to you: a 400-g trottle gun, army. Then I was impressed, and the case is known. The Trotile Shaft Case, this represents 400 g of TNT. Imagine these are less than one hand for this year, since I am a minister, such cases. So, this group is particularly dangerous, and then we talked about it with our colleagues. Money - 2000 euros; cartridges 107 pieces, different caliber. An additional 15 interviews of witnesses were carried out and 21 persons were identified. The relevant charges have been brought against eight detained persons, which the Attorney General will report to the other side. On 28 August 2018, a further indictment against the participants in the organized criminal group has been filed by the monitoring prosecutor of the Special Prosecutor's Office. On 29 August this year, Iliya Stoilov, leader of the group, was amended by a detention in custody in the petition, the same being released. On the 29th, a protest was drafted and tabled immediately by the Special Prosecutor's Office to amend the measure of non-violence against the persons involved in the organized criminal group. On the 11th of the day, from the composition of the Specialized Court, I cannot read it here, there is a definition written, and measures have been amended against the participants in the organized criminal group. What was previously decreed has been canceled and the most severe measure has been imposed on the 11th. Just to mention that on September 6th, and with this I am finishing, the person Ilija Georgiev Stoilov, the leader of the group, has left legally the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria, to emphasise. No missing persons were reported and no restrictions were imposed on him to leave the Republic of Bulgaria. He did it through the border checkpoint. This is the activity that the Ministry of Interior has carried out on this case, as you can see, for over a year and a half. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u175	Thank you, dear Minister. I give the floor to the Attorney General Mr. Tsatsarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u176	Madam President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Before presenting the information to you, as it is requested, and as it was collected in the short time of receipt of the notification, of the invitation to appear today in the National Assembly, I would like to make a few clarifications. First of all, according to the provisions of the Law, only facts relating to the conduct of the investigation can be disclosed to you, but not facts about the substance of the case itself. Secondly, legal acts will be mentioned and referred to as facts. You should bear in mind that as a prosecutor, I do not have any right, and it is not correct, to comment on legal acts. Prosecutor's dissatisfaction with judicial acts can have only one form and it is called "Protest." Next, no names will be mentioned, except for Ilija Georgiev Stoilov, who I found out is also the hearing now. Thirdly, I would have to say that, perhaps, it is unnecessary to say that, for all defendants in this pre-trial proceedings, the presumption of innocence is in effect until a relevant judicial act enters into force. What are the actions carried out in the investigation so far and judicial action, since the case is currently in a judicial phase? On 5 April 2017, the Special Prosecutor's Office initiated pre-trial proceedings against an organised criminal group dealing with kidnapping, coercion and extortion. On 14 October 2017, the defendants in this pre-trial proceedings were eight, but on 14 October 2017, the person Ilija Georgiev Stoilov was attracted as an indictee as part of this organized criminal group. On 15 October 2017, at the request of the Special Prosecutor's Office against Ilija Georgiev Stoilov, a measure was imposed for non-violence in custody by order of the Specialized Criminal Court. At the stage of pre-trial proceedings, the defendant Iliev claimed a three-fold modification of his measure of non-deviation in light. In all proceedings, the Prosecutor's Office opposed these requests and the Specialized Criminal Court did not respect them. Thus we arrive at the date 13 June 2018, when the Prosecutor's Office filed an indictment to the Specialized Criminal Court against all accused members and head of this organized crime group, including Ilija Georgiev Stoilov. The Specialised Criminal Court held an Administrative Meeting on 17 July 2018. It accepted that there were substantial procedural violations and returned the case to the Prosecutor's Office. The prosecution shall follow the instructions of the Special Court and submit a new indictment to the Specialized Criminal Court on 21 August 2018. Defenders of the defendant Stoilov and another defendant, who is being held in custody, submitted applications to amend their measures for non-violence to the court. The hearing shall be held on 29 August 2018. It shall be open. In it appear the defendant Stoilov, as well as, of course, the other defendant in custody. They appear because they were convoyed there as well as their defenders. They shall make a request to amend the non-reflection measure. By order of 29 August 2018, the Specialized Criminal Court amended the measures for non-violence to both defendants from detention in custody in a petition. In accordance with art. 343 of the Code of Criminal Procedure: this definition is subject to immediate execution in the absence of another decree. To put it another way: the defendants were released from the court immediately in the courtroom and, of course, released from the staff of the General Directorate of Security. The immediate Specialized Prosecutor's Office has filed a protest against the definition of the Specialized Criminal Court. The protest was reviewed on 11 September 2018 at a closed hearing of the Board of Appeal of the Specialized Criminal Court of Appeal. The order of the Specialized Court of 29 August has been annulled as incorrect and the most serious measure has been remanded. At present, this most severe measure of detention against Ilija Georgiev Stoilov has not been implemented, as it is clear from the reference presented by the Ministry of Interior, the BOP sector Ruse and Razgrad that he has left the territory of the country. We have specific data on the car, the person who accompanied it and the possible purpose of the journey. These are the facts that I can present to you at this stage. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u177	Thank you, Mr. Attorney General. With this, ladies and gentlemen, we have exhausted this procedure. I'm calling a 30-minute recess. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u178	Please let the Quaestors invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber, we have a bill coming up at second reading. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u179	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, before I begin reading the report, I would ask that we vote for admission in the hall of Mr. Svetoslav Glossov, Chairman of the Road Infrastructure Agency, and Mrs. Ekaterina Gramatikova, expert.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u180	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. We vote on the proposal for admission in the hall of Mr. Glossov and Mrs. Gramatikova. Vote 67 MPs: 66, against no, abstention 1. We're on the verge of a quorum. Please invite the persons to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u181	The Law of the Roads Act is amended and supplemented. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u182	We vote on the name of the Law. I ask everyone to concentrate on the vote, because we will have to proceed to a roll call. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for the title of the Law is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u183	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. Here's the text: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 1: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1, in the new content of para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) a point shall be placed in the introductory phrase after the word "the distance' and then a sentence second shall be created: the Council of Ministers may introduce only one of the following charges for a certain category of road vehicles. (b) c. 1 the words "the road network paid' shall be replaced by "the time base'; (c) c. 2 after the word "distance" in its first use is added to the motorways, roads and roads of the first and second class. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2, in the new content of para. 3 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied', and the words "supplied' or "supplied' shall be deleted; 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3, in the new content of para. 6 in the sentence first, the Union is replaced by a comma, and after the word the Finances and the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications is added. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 the created para. 10 is amended as follows: "Stay infrastructure" Agency provides an opportunity for payment of the fees under para. 1 and 2, as follows: 1. The fee under para. 1 by buying an electronic tart. 2. The fee under para. 2: (a) for road vehicles with Bulgarian registration by electronic charge using a special onboard device, the car park management system, card payment or the European service for electronic collection of tolls under art. 10i and for road vehicles without such devices by purchasing a route coupon, online or at special points. (b) for road vehicles with a foreign registration by means of a route ticket or on-board unit purchased, correspondingly employed, by the special units of the Office of Customs and at the border crossing points, or by the European service for electronic collection of tolls under art. 10i ".."......................................................................................................... The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following 1. In para. 1: a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: A mixed charging system for the different categories of road vehicles and charges is introduced for crossing the paid road network on a time-based and distance-based basis. (b) c. 1 the words "road infrastructure' shall be replaced by the road network paid, after the words "wine fee' shall be added for road vehicles under art. 10a, para. the words "republikan road', which are included in the trans-European road network, as well as those which are outside the road network or at their hubs, shall be replaced by the road network concerned and the words "the amount of wine charges, including administrative costs, for all categories of vehicles shall be determined by the Council of Ministers, so that it is not higher than the maximum amounts set out in Annex No 1' shall be entered; (c) c. 2 the words "toll charge' shall be replaced by "toll charge for road vehicles' under art. 10b, para. The number of axles and its environmental characteristics shall be added after the words 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: In the case of an established movement on the paid road network where the relevant road vehicle is not paid the relevant fee under para. 1, the driver of the road vehicle, its owner or third party may pay a compensatory fee in which case the latter shall be exempt from administrative criminal liability. In this case, they shall be exempt from administrative criminal liability and all other persons who may bear such liability in relation to the specific road vehicle. 3. In para. 3 words for transit of road vehicles with Bulgarian or foreign registration shall be replaced by the words "toll toll" covered by the paid road network and the words "toll toll" shall be replaced by "toll toll." 4. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The amount of the fees under para. 1, 2, 4 and 5 and under art. 10b, para. 5 is determined by a tariff of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works and the Minister of Finance. The conditions and arrangements for the collection of the fees under para. 4 and 5 are determined by a regulation of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The services of card payments for the collection of income under para. 1 shall be carried out in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 1. 4, para. 5 of the Law on the limitation of payments in cash, as payments can also be made through fuel maps issued by persons with whom the Road Infrastructure Agency makes contracts under equal public terms and conditions. 5. In para. 7 the words.. payment of a distance charge......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 1 and 2 and under art. 10b, para. 5. 6. They're creating an al. 9 s 15: For movement on the Republican Roads of Road Vehicles of the Ministry of Interior, of the National Security Service, of the State Agency of National Security, of the Emergency Medical Aid and of the Armed Forces, no fees under para. 1, 4 and 5. (10) The Road Infrastructure Agency shall exercise the powers of the State in relation to the collection of road charges under this Article and the functions of a road toller and the management of the mixed charging system of the different categories of road vehicles on a time-based and distance-to-travel basis, as well as the practical implementation, implementation, operation and control of the road toll collection system. (11) The Road Infrastructure Agency shall operate and maintain the Electronic Tolling System under para. 1 which consists of an electronic system for electronic wineries and an electronic system for collecting tolls. (12) The Road Infrastructure Service shall provide the users of the paid road network with the opportunity to pay the relevant fee under para. 1 and 2 by electronic and banking means, as well as by card payment and cash at the points of sale, and to pay an electronic wine payment fee for road vehicles under art. 10a, para. 7 and route map for road vehicles under art. 10b, para. 3 by self-loading terminals located on the paid road network and in the district cities of the country. (13) The location of the terminals for self-taxation is determined by a decision of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency. (14) Posts for sale shall be disclosed at least at border crossing points or close to them, in the district cities, and along the paid road network, and for that purpose the Road Infrastructure Agency shall determine the places to be opened points of sale and conclude contracts under equal public terms and prices with traders meeting the requirements set by a decision of the Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency. (15) The Road Infrastructure Agency shall conclude the contracts under the ordinance under para. 7 with providers of electronic tolling services and with providers of declared data that comply with the conditions laid down in this Law and the Regulation by applying uniform public disclosure of general conditions and prices.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u184	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any speeches? I won't. Firstly, we are voting on the unsupported proposal of Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. We can shorten the procedure, but the Rules require otherwise. They voted 93 MPs: 1 against 58, abstention 34. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text by importer in the version of the Commission for § 1. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u185	Under § 2 there is a proposal from Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 10a is amended as follows: Art. 10a. (1) Wine fees shall be differentiated according to the period for which the wine fee has been paid. Depending on the time limit, the wine fees shall be annual, quarterly, monthly, weekly and weekend and shall be valid from the day indicated as starting date on their payment. The period of validity of the wine fees shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in art. 10, para. 7. (2) In the case of established use of the paid road network by a road vehicle under para. 7, the minimum road toll due for this use is a fee valid for the weekend. (3) The wine fee shall be paid by the owner or user of the road vehicle after the registration number has been declared, the category of the road vehicle and the period of validity and shall apply only to the road vehicle the registration number of which has been correctly declared by the owner or its user. (4) On payment of the wine fee shall be issued an electronic winery which is an electronic document within the meaning of art. 3, para. 1 of the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services, certifying the payment of the relevant fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 and containing the registration number of the road vehicle, its category, the date of payment of the fee and the period of validity. (5) Officials controlling the fulfilment of the obligation to pay a road toll under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 shall not require the owners or users of the road vehicle to submit to them the electronic wine or evidence of the payment made. (6) The electronic bill issued against the payment of the payment fee shall follow the road vehicle and, in the case of transfer of the ownership of the road vehicle and shall retain its validity for the period for which it was issued. (7) A wine fee shall be paid for the following road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass up to or equal to 3,5 tonnes: 1. motor vehicles having at least four wheels and intended for the carriage of passengers; 2. motor vehicles having at least four wheels and intended for the transport of goods; 3. motor vehicles with increased passability. (8) Road vehicles intended for towing semi-trailers shall be considered as road vehicles intended for the carriage of goods of more than 2 axles, irrespective of the number of axles and whether or not the semi-trailer is attached. (9) In cases where a road vehicle under para. 7 moves with a trailer attached, owner or user is obliged to pay an additional charge for the same category of road vehicle, regardless of the number of axles of the trailer, for the period of use of the paid road network by the road vehicle with the trailer attached where the total technically permissible mass of the composition exceeds 3,5 tonnes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u186	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 2. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u187	Under § 3 there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. Article 10b is amended as follows: Art. 10b. (1) Tol fees shall be differentiated according to the technical characteristics of the road or road section, distance travelled, category of road vehicle and number of axles, environmental characteristics and shall be determined for each individual road or road section. (2) The control in the entry and exit of a road vehicle on the paid road network, the reporting of the distance travelled, and the payment of the toll shall be carried out by means of an electronic charging system. The procedures for the operation of the electronic charging system shall be laid down in the ordinance under art. 10, para. 7. (3) The toll shall be paid by the owner or user of the road vehicle for all road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes, outside of Art. 10a, para. 9, by paying it right to the road vehicle for which it is paid to travel a certain distance between two points. (4) The amount of the fee due for payment shall be determined on the basis of the actual data received, certified in accordance with the procedure laid down in the ordinance under art. 10, para. 7 or by purchasing a single route map that allows the user of the road to travel a pre-solicited distance on a specific route. In the ordinance of art. 10, para. 7 the methods of calculating and paying tolls due shall also be determined. (5) Where it is not possible to establish the actual distance travelled for reasons not due to the technical malfunction of the road infrastructure supported by the Agency, an electronic charging system shall be assumed that the road vehicle concerned has travelled a distance corresponding to the longest segment between two points of the road network paid, in which case the owner or user shall pay the maximum fee specified in the tariff under art. 10, para. 6. (6) To reduce the environmental impact of road vehicles when determining the amount of fees in the tariff under art. 10, para. 6 The Council of Ministers shall set lower charges for road vehicles under para. 3 which correspond to the environmental category "EURO III", "EURO IV", "EURO V", "EURO VI" and higher, including for "EEV".
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u188	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Atalay. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u189	Thank you, Madam President. If the opposition does not take the floor, we will adopt the Law without knowing what it is about. Colleagues, this is about a system of how and how moving vehicles pay for the distance travelled using the Republican road network. This system we tried to introduce during the Triple Coalition. Then, in society, in the political class, including the opposition, there was no attitude to adopt such a law and to build those highways, as I said, where, on the basis of the passage of relevant miles, the road vehicles concerned would pay for maintenance, maintenance or the pleasure of moving on a well-built highway. If we had then done tol the system, today the Ministry would have had more than a billion, a billion and two hundred million revenues, and not just today, but in the last 10 years your management. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] In my opinion, the highways would be really highways now, wouldn't be two lanes and an emergency, with tracks in the end right lane. They would have really been highways. Some must be asking the question here: is the system necessary? Of course it's necessary! Are we too late? Of course we're late! The main problem today, considering this law, is that government policy is not in this law. Turns out the MP, Mr. Nenkov, is the brightest, smartest of all, we don't have the Ministry of Regional Development. [[noise and speech, excitement and laughter in the hall, applause from GERB]] There is no Council of Ministers. He alone found out how and how a billion and 200 million would be collected, my respect to the minister, even to him Mr. Nankov entrusted tasks, as well as to the Minister of Finance how to distribute these funds. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Colleagues, so when you are attacked and told that you are not a serious political force, that you have no policy in the development of road infrastructure, in regional development, do not worry. Take it as it is, because today I really congratulate Mr. Alexander Nenkov again for all that he has done. [[General applause from GERB.]] Colleagues, this is where the following question arises. When we looked at the texts, there were serious debates. I'm surprised at this. If Mr. Nenkov had written this bill, why between first and second reading he proposed the amendments and additions he made? Now here I'm telling you the passes made by the Ministry. In § 3, para. 5 The text reads as follows: Where it is not possible to establish the actual distance travelled for reasons not due to a technical malfunction of the road infrastructure supported by the Agency, the vehicle will pay the longest distance travelled. What is the fault of the driver with the vehicle that the Road Infrastructure Agency has not created conditions through the toll system or the distance to be measured and that the person can pay? Why the longest distance to walk?! Why, when all the institutions have not done your job, are you loading the person who will get on this road infrastructure?! Those are the passes. There are a number of other passes. I am convinced that you are accustomed to making such laws, and you will say: "In the next session we will amend the Law and find a way to fix this. Let's take a look at it in common right now and pass this law. That's why we're here. Once again I tell you: the idea is from the royal time, but then it was not accepted. At the moment, the accusation by certain political forces that we do not want the system to be introduced, because only the trucks from a particular country will be loaded, is not true. Let the system be introduced, but as a policy and implemented by the Ministry. I can't say anything bad about the minister. I am convinced that he can defend the Bill, unlike some others who attended the Commission and did not know what it was about. Colleagues, I therefore propose that we drop this paragraph so that we do not burden the people who will be on these roads that we have not created conditions to measure the distance they are going to pass.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u190	What exactly are you suggesting, Mr. Atalay?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u191	Let's get rid of Al. 5 to § 3. [[Single applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u192	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Nenkov. Good things have been said about you, I thought you'd want a personal explanation. Here you are. You have every right to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Thank you for the high appreciation of Mr. Atalay, but outside the good and funny tone Mr. Atalay made at the beginning of his speech, I think we should not belittle the work of the MPs. You can't imagine that I'm the only one who's made up my mind and wrote such a heavy bill on such an important and important subject. Of course the Bill is written entirely within a collective between the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Road Infrastructure Agency, the MPs who participated in the writing of this bill. I don't think there's any bill coming into this room that's insignificant, not any of the bills we're looking at here are tabled by the Council of Ministers. We must not belittle the work of the National Assembly. We ourselves will respect each other in this way. As for the wording of para. Five that you just commented on, I don't think you understand what this is about. This is about when there is any manipulation or on-board device or when a vehicle comes out of charging where it has to go. For example, it goes down roads that are not covered by the toll system, and it goes from point A to point B, so the system didn't read it from where it came from. That is precisely why this text says: when it is not due to the technicality of the system, when it is not the Agency's fault. When the Agency is guilty and the management of the toll system is guilty, of course it is responsible and the risk for this thing. But when it is the driver's fault, for some reason he was trying to abuse, then finally, when he goes and has to pay his own account, he will take account of the longest way from point A to point B precisely in order not to allow himself to prevent such pranks. Here, Mr. Atalay, I don't think you understand exactly the meaning of this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u194	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Atalay, there's an opportunity for a doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Nenkov, there are other organs that will assess whether by breaking and entering or skipping the drainage facilities and the partitions have crossed and left the road. These are criminal cases. It is the responsibility of the Road Infrastructure and the organizers of the Tol system to make sure that the person cannot leave the Republican Road Network without taking account of its exit from the official exits. There is no such thing in the world You created conditions for him to pass through the village of Dolni Okol on the other side and finally fine the man because there was a way out where he came from?! I won't be able to agree that I didn't understand. In connection with your first sentence, my respect for the proposals by the MPs to amend and supplement the laws, but when you propose a major bill with financial estimates of over a billion and 200 million and not having a policy of the government and the political power how and how you will develop this sector, and leaving in the hands and capabilities of a people's representative, these errors are happening, which are still small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u196	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Are there any other statements? I won't. First, we vote on Ramadan Atalay's proposal to drop para. 5 in § 3. They voted 99 MPs: 12, Against 56, abstention 31. The offer is not accepted. I am voting on the wording of § 3 by importer in the version of the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 90, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u197	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 4 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u198	Thank you. Are there any statements under § 4? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal § 4 to be rejected. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u199	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10f, para. 1 after the words. The following paragraph is added in paragraph 10 (a) (i) (i) (ii)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u200	Thank you. Are there any speeches, considerations? I won't. We are voting on the proposal for § 5, which becomes § 4 in the version of the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u201	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 6 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u202	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal § 6 to be rejected. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u203	Under § 7 there is a proposal from the National Representative Dora Yankova and a group of MPs: In § 7, in the content of art. The following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 5 the words "the person charging tolls' are replaced by "Agency'. 2. in para. 6 the words "the person charging tolls' are replaced by "Agency'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Article 10h is amended as follows: Art. 10h. (1) The combined charging system for the different categories of road vehicles based on time and distance travelled includes the European Electronic Toll Charge Service (EUEST), such as the Road Infrastructure Agency, creates and maintains a register of EUEST areas, a national register of EUEST suppliers and a register of national toll service providers. (2) EuEST suppliers shall be legal entities meeting the requirements of para. 3 and registered in the Member State in which they are established, which grant to a EuEST user access to EUROST. (3) Traders registered in the Republic of Bulgaria shall be entered in the National Electronic Register of EuEST Providers if they meet the following requirements: 1. hold a valid certificate according to EN ISO 9001 or its equivalent; 2. hold technical equipment and an EC declaration or certificate certifying the conformity of interoperability constituents as referred to in point 1 of Annex IV to Decision 2009/750/EC laying down the European Electronic Toll Service and its technical elements (Decision 2009/750/EC) (OJ L 268/11 of 13 October 2009.) 3. have competence in the provision of electronic toll services or in other related areas; 4. have the necessary financial stability; 5. have a risk management plan to be verified at least every two years; Six have a good reputation. (4) Within 24 months of their registration, EuEST suppliers shall enter into EUEST contracts covering all EUEST areas. The EUEST provider shall at any time provide its coverage on all areas of EUEST. In the event of a change in EUEST areas or for any other reason that violates full coverage, it shall restore full coverage within 6 months. (5) The disputes arising between the person collecting tolls and the suppliers of EUROST who have concluded contracts or are in a contractual relationship with that person shall be dealt with by the Reconciliation Commission of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. The competence and powers of the Reconciliation Commission shall be governed by the ordinance under art. 10, para. 7 and the composition, functions and activities of the Commission shall be determined by rules established by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works or by an official authorised by it. (6) When examining disputes, the conciliation committee shall have the right to verify whether the contractual conditions imposed by the person collecting tolls vis-à-vis the various EuEST suppliers are non-discriminatory and correctly reflect the costs and risks of the parties to the contract. (7) The principles of EUEST action, the technical requirements for the interoperability of EUEST, the establishment and maintenance of a national register of EUEST areas, the national register of EUEST suppliers and the register of national providers of electronic tolling services shall be governed by the ordinance under art. 10, para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u204	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of Ms. Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. They voted 100 MPs: 14 against 46 abstentions 40. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the wording of § 7 in the version of the Commission, which becomes § 5. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u205	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Dora Yankova and a group of MPs: In § 8, in the creations art. 10k, in para. 4 the words the person charging tolls shall be replaced by the "Agency', "Agency', "Agency', "Agency', "Agency', "Agency', "Agency', "Agency', "Agency', "Agency', "Agency' and "Agency'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... Article 3 is Art. Tenth. (1) Traders registered in the Republic of Bulgaria or in another Member State of the European Union meeting the requirements of art. 10h, para. 3, p. 1 et c. 3 - 6 and having technical equipment complying with the relevant requirements required for the purpose of tolling in the relevant areas of tolling of the Road Infrastructure Agency, can also operate as a national provider of electronic tolling service if they are entered in the relevant register under the ordinance under art. 10, para. 7 and entered into a contract under common conditions with the Road Infrastructure Agency. (2) National providers of electronic tolling services shall provide users with access to electronic tolling services for crossing the paid road network in the Republic of Bulgaria. (3) The requirement under art. 10h, para. 4 shall not apply to a national provider of an electronic toll service, in any case it may request and be entered in the register under art. 10h, para. 3, then all the requirements laid down for EUEST suppliers will apply to it. (4) Disputes between persons operating as a national provider of an electronic toll service and the person collecting tolls shall be settled in accordance with art. 10h, para. 5 and 6. (5) The conditions and procedures for keeping the National Electronic Register of EuEST Providers and of the Register of National Toll Service Providers, the conditions for entry, the documents to be submitted by the applicant for proof of the circumstances under para. 1 and under art. 10h, para. 3 as well as the grounds for deletion from the register shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 3. 10, para. 7..............................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u206	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 16 against 56, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u207	We are voting in the version of the Commission for § 8, which becomes § 6. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u208	Under § 9 there is a proposal from the National Representative Dora Yankova and a group of MPs: In § 9, in the creations art. 10L, in para. 2 and in 3 the words "the person charging tolls' are replaced by "Agency'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 3 is Art. 10k. (1) A supplier of declared data shall be a person who collects and provides data on geographical positioning and distance travelled from road vehicles to consumers with whom it has entered into a contract in a format suitable for processing by the electronic charging system. (2) The supplier of declared data that meets the requirements laid down by the ordinance under art. 10, para. 7 shall enter into a contract with the person collecting tolls under general conditions or with the provider of electronic tolling services. (3) The supplier of declared data shall be obliged to enter into a contract for professional liability insurance to cover the damage caused to the provider of electronic tolling services and/or to the person charging tolls and to benefit one of those persons, depending on the contractual relationship. The conditions and procedures for compulsory insurance of persons under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 10, para. 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u209	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 5 against 51, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 9, which shall become § 7. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u210	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following "1." In para. 2 after the words 2. In para. 3: (a) c. 11 the words "toll fees' shall be replaced by "toll fees'; b) To be created t. 20 - 26: It's 20. carry out the functions of a person collecting tolls, operating and managing the electronic toll system under para. 10, para. 1 by managing the processes and controlling the correct accounting of the fees due and their collection; 21. supervise and supervise the providers of electronic toll services - national toll service providers and toll providers established in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and the providers of declared data; 22. prepare and maintain a report on the area of road tolls and an application for an EUEST area and on the provision of an electronic tolling service; 23. organise the dissemination and maintenance of on-board units meeting the relevant technical requirements for the purpose of tolling in the relevant areas of tolling of the Agency; 24. record users of the paid road network holding on-board devices that have not entered into a contract with an electronic toll service provider or a declared data provider for the purpose of tolling, monitor the balance of the prepaid tolls and carry out the recovery activities of the amounts due on its availability; 25. organize the activity of setting up, maintaining and maintaining the National Electronic Registers of Providers of Electronic Charging Service for Distance-Talking "National Providers of Electronic Tolls Services and Providers of European Electronic Tolls Service (EUEST Providers) and of EuEST domains located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 26. communicate with the other control and oversight services under Chapter 5 of the Road Traffic Act on sanctioning administrative infringements in relation to the use of the paid road network.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u211	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 10 which shall become § 8. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u212	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and it is reflected in its systematic position in § 8. Proposal by the National Representative Dora Yankova and a group of MPs: The following amendments and additions shall be made in § 11: "1." in the created t. 20 after the word "Operation', a comma shall be placed and added to the "Support'. 2. create t. 28: It's 28. develop a communication plan with key stakeholders, road users and carriers in order to prepare them for the implementation and proper operation of the system The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 11, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u213	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal of MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 9 against 52, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission proposal to reject the text of the importer for § 11. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u214	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21c, para. 1, t. 7 after the words the driving is a comma and is added to the activities related to the operation and management of the electronic system for the collection of tolls under art. 10, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.'
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u215	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 12, which shall become § 9. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u216	Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21d the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new item is being created. 7 and so on. 8. "7." designate officials to draw up acts establishing administrative infringements in the cases provided for in law; 8. issue criminal decrees or empower officials of the Agency to issue criminal decrees in the cases provided for in law. 2. Previously on "T." 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7 is equal to 7
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u217	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 10 with a text on a proposal from the Commission. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u218	Under Paragraph 13, the proposal has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2 after the words "road stations" is added "National
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u219	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 13, which shall become § 11. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u220	Proposal by the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. Paragraph 13a is inserted: .... 13a.............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following 1. in para. 3 after the word "building" a new comma is added and included. expropriation and compensation for the necessary property. 2. in para. 4 the words "organised by the municipality concerned" shall be replaced by "executed jointly by the Agency and the municipality concerned by the mutual assistance." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from MP Ramadan Atali and Tanner Ali: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 1 after the words are financed by the funds from the.................................................................................................... Art. 10 and art. 18, para. 3, p. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 is created a new para. 3 containing the following content: For the construction, reconstruction, repair and maintenance of municipal roads of municipalities are provided annually not less than 20 percent of the revenue from fees under art. 10. The allocation mechanism by municipalities is determined by the State Budget Act for the year concerned. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: The funds of the fees referred to in art. 10, para. 1, t. 2 shall be spent in accordance with the principles laid down in Directive 1999/62/EC.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u221	Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u222	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Honourable Minister for Retire! Colleagues, on committees, we discussed our proposal, which is not less than 20%, that these fees as a toll system enter through the Ministry of Finance as a capital subsidy to build and rehabilitate roads. We commented on it, but the argument of colleagues in the Commission was that there is a European Directive " and Mr. Nankov's proposal at the next point that, as a European Directive, these toll charges cannot and should not be used for any other road except for the Republican road network. There are many practices in the National Assembly and in this Forty-four, where we, when we have consensus in certain decisions, when it is important for the country to vote in spite of the European directives that have been submitted to the European family, make our decision a Bulgarian decision, in the name of the important events that are taking place in the country. I don't want to get into the details, but I think it is important here that we take into account that municipal roads, as we all know, are in a tragic state because of the non-financing and with the few municipal budgets for capital expenditure on road infrastructure to be maintained. Given that as kilometers they are in proportion to the Republican road network, or 20 thousand kilometers at 20 thousand kilometers, suggesting that we should look for additional funding for the fourth-class road network as well. At the first reading of the Law, we noted that this was the case. We had made this proposal, there were different debates in this direction, but ultimately at second reading this is not accepted where we insist on municipalities and citizens using the fourth-class road network. Because these cars, which will pass through these Republican third-class, second-class and first-class road networks, will pay the toll, but to get out on these roads, they will pass through this fourth-class road network or pass through settlements where road infrastructure is of a different class and will break the same logic and in the same way this road infrastructure. It was in this regard that our proposal was and I think it was very logical given the desire of all municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria and the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, where this proposal was submitted to the Commission and we, as a Movement for Rights and Freedoms, of course, supported it and offered it as a ratio, and absolutely all their requests in this proposal as a bill. Please, let's be reasonable. As we have done so far, in the name of national security, because it is national security, for the sake of our municipalities, to support our decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u223	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u224	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I take the floor once more and then I will take it to the final part of the Law. I'd like to make a suggestion from the beginning, Mr. Chairman. If we are not going to understand the essence of the Law that we are adopting and we are going to accept it so quietly, better, if we are tired, to end the adoption of the Bill, to prepare ourselves, and tomorrow to really sit down and look at this bill. Colleagues, we are adopting an essential and very important infrastructure bill that will contribute over 1 billion. 200 million in the budget, a bill where money will be distributed and such infrastructure will be created that people get on the highways, they can drive in straight roads without holes. That is why it is my appeal: as all mayors have found a way to support Minister Nankov and at the moment, why do you not find the strength in you to support two texts in this bill in the interests of the municipalities, in the interests of the mayors and in the interests of the people who live in these municipalities? Why don't you want to look into this proposal the first thing Mrs. Dora Yankova says? Well, gentlemen, where the mayors of GERB are, there are no problems in alienating the adjacent terrains when road infrastructure passes to create a pedestrian path, on the bike and on sidewalks. There are problems in other municipalities and we are not saying anything wrong with this proposal right now. Ladies and gentlemen, let us, together with the Agency for Infrastructure and Municipalities, decide how and how to be involved in the alienation of these properties for the accompanying infrastructure. Isn't that right, Minister? That's what this is about, guys. You are absolutely indifferent to all those who want to live or live in such settlements. You don't care! And the second, which is: why do you refuse our proposal that 20% of the funds go back to municipalities or the road infrastructure that ends with the start of the sign? The Republican road infrastructure passes through the locality because it is a municipal road. There the holes are the size of the wheel of a TIR. To be separated from these funds and the road infrastructure to be made and constructed so that the person who paid through the toll system can be satisfied by passing through these roads. We offer you things that are in the public interest. We offer you things for which the Minister of Finance in his quest to distribute money in many places when Mr. Nenkov has provided him 1 billion. 200 million, we are at the moment, telling him and telling him that this way he can create favourable conditions for traffic on our road infrastructure. As for whether or not it is in accordance with the directive, yes, it is precisely under the directive. It is not contrary to the directive. If you are going to use the argument that these funds are collected from the Republican road network system and cannot be allocated to the municipal road network, you are wrong. Don't give us that argument. And please, Mr. Chairman, I seriously suggest that if we are to adopt a bill proposed by a Member of the National Assembly, in which it is Bulgaria's policy to have a good road infrastructure, let us wake up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u225	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Should I consider that you are making a procedural proposal within the meaning of art. 55, para. 1 to terminate the meeting? Ramadan ATALY: I think that's why I started because I do not see any involvement of the importer or the creators of the Bill. I see that the Director of the Road Infrastructure is new, but still for a long enough time he has been dealing with road infrastructure. He can take the attitude because he has no representatives of the municipalities. And if he wants to, I'll gladly give him his seat. Let him come, let him come. I believe you still care about your minister. If you don't hold it, we'll accept it with us, don't worry. [[Laughter and applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u226	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Before we proceed, I will put to the vote Mr. Atalay's procedural proposal to postpone the debate. Vote 87 MPs: 11 against 55, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Nenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u227	I deeply disagree that we are not serious about this so essential and structurally defining issue for the state. However, I will touch on what has just been said, in fact, on the proposals of colleagues who are about how to finance municipalities, as we all agree with the fact that municipalities are anyway underfunded and the road network is not in the state we wish it to be. Here, however, it is very important to say the following things, not only because the European directive and our legislation require. When you make an expense, when you pay a fee, it must be cost-effective. Therefore, when you pay some amount for a service, it should be for the service you use and for any other. Imagine how the money that we collect from the toll fee, the future revenues from the toll system, can be spent on anything else. Except for a community network, we might decide to spend it on something else. First of all, that it is not acceptable under both European and our legislation, I think it is not right either. Because when a person pays for something, he expects this service to improve and wants to see improvement where his funds actually go. As far as municipalities are concerned, the debate on the financing of municipalities for capital expenditure on a municipal road network is not here and is not today. He is here, but should rather enter when we talk about the State Budget Act, because from there are also capital expenditures through delegated budgets to municipalities. There is the opportunity to look for a way to increase funds. Here it is very important to note that we have discussed this with our colleagues and with the Ministry of Finance, as up to now the Road Infrastructure Agency is being financed from the state budget in a different amount each year, therefore when this tol system is in force and when it starts generating the revenues that we are actually fighting for, then it must be self-sustaining. In such a way that the state budget will not be obliged or in any way to look for how to finance the Road Agency. That is, such a resource would be released, which would eventually have gone, or part of it, to improve and rather increase the capital costs of municipalities. So I propose that, very constructively, as we are about to look at the state budget and its adoption, we look for different ways from there to improve and increase these funds. Another false statement was also said. When one time, which is charged and entered into the toll system, goes through municipal infrastructure, the Road Infrastructure Agency is involved in improving this infrastructure and in fact its rehabilitation. In the payment itself, when a truck goes through such a network, he expects the company, municipality or agency that supports it to be in good condition, therefore the Agency also has a bearing on this case. And last but not least, it is that if it is assumed that the system is something that is the beginning of which the scope will be determined and precisely the roads that will be charged, as we know that it depends on their condition, it does not prevent the municipal network from entering the system in the future, so that it can be charged in order to be maintained and to be in good technical condition. The debate is really open. We should be looking for an opportunity for municipalities to be financed, but it is not the way and not through this law, namely through the state budget. I propose that we hold this serious debate next month when we look at the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u228	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. That's a statement, you're entitled to a line, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u229	Mr. Nenkov, I respect that you're transferring the conversation to do so during the budget. I don't mind, but then we'll look at the total capital expenditure of the municipalities and you'll tell us that there is no money, there is no where, and right now with this law we are offering you an accompanying collection of money. In addition to spending another thousand people who will be assigned to the toll system, in addition to paying another 200 million to build the system itself, why not separate another 20%? Another 20%, I'm really telling you about these sections where the Republican Road Network and the Road Infrastructure Agency are going through, there is absolutely no participation at all. If you want to get me information, give it to me, I'll find the strength to appear on the stand to say yes. My colleague often said: when you traveled from Elhovo to Lesovo on that municipal road through those holes on the Republican road network, with your private planes to land there, and through the holes from there you can only pass with Mr. Karakachanov's blue helmet. That's what this is about, guys! Thank you for the line anyway. Thank you for taking an attitude and trying to come up with arguments to justify yourself, but you're wrong. Accept this offer of ours and you will see that... If it is because we have made this proposal, recognize it as yours, but accept it, it is for the benefit of society.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u230	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Second line, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u231	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I have listened carefully to your argumentation about what we are proposing, but I do not fully agree with these suggestions of yours that may happen in the future. Before you say, I was going to suggest, if we do not accept this proposal, that all municipalities introduce some tol fee for municipal maybe the fourth-class road network. And I am convinced that there will be overlaps from the same vehicles that will be collected as a toll, and passing except through Republican and these municipal roads. That's how it's gonna be. Or the other proposal, you didn't say it here, but we discussed it at the Commission. If you want, where you go through the municipal roads, by changing the Law on Construction of the territory to change their status as roads, make them third, second or first grade, and not to have fourth class roads in Bulgaria. That is, they are Republican roads so that they can take advantage of the funds that are being collected. The proposals may be hundreds, but the issue here today is to make a firm decision so that municipalities can be convinced that there is some prerequisite for a breath of air in the future, not to wait for the state budget. We know how a state budget is adopted.. We sleep until 3:00 all MPs and then we don't even read what is accepted. So now is the time, let us offer it and I will be grateful to you, and I am convinced that all municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u232	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Third line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Nenkov? No. A statement? Mr. Vesselinoff, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u233	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I do not agree with the proposal of colleagues from the DPS for fixing such a 20% amount to go to finance municipal roads for many reasons. It is not the issue that municipal roads are in good condition, on the contrary their condition is tragic, they are decades underfunded. It is very easy with a single text in the law to ask you to represent yourself as a defender of the interests of the municipalities and to say: "Here we were offering a general solution, but there is no one to hear us, and that is why we are the good ones and others are the bad ones because they do not give. " However, I ask a few questions to the authors of this proposal. First of all, we actually have a fee that will be determined on the basis of what is necessary for the construction and maintenance of the infrastructure that is covered by the toll system. Municipal roads are not part of this infrastructure. If we offer 20% of the fee to go for these municipal roads, each carrier will appeal this fee because it will say: What's the other effect? We will remove from the cash table with which we want to renovate our infrastructure, with which we want to build the highway We're going to take out a sum and delay the construction of this infrastructure over time. This is not the state's way of thinking, and this is not the way of thinking that needs to be followed. It is obvious that municipalities need additional funding for their infrastructure and I think that our committee has repeatedly stated the desire within the budgetary procedure, in view of the increased revenue for roads that will generate the system, to raise funds for municipal infrastructure. Such a resource should be released, of course, in the current management by Mr. Nankov Ministry and we could point it there. But to offer something to be good populists in this case, I don't think it's normal. And all the calls: support this wonderful thing just like that, and then you'll see what happens next, they're untenable. The legal text is correct, it ensures the development of Republican infrastructure. From then on, we can think of a number of options to support the municipal, but let's not try to come up with the wooden iron and put in some lyrics just to like us people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u234	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. A line? Mr. Halil Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u235	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Veselinov! It has become clear that the majority will not support this text submitted by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms by my fellow Members, but you are not aware of what the motives really are. The text wouldn't be legal?! The laws, Mr. Veselinov, are forged here, and the experts will find a solution for this to happen further. The proposal from you.. what we have understood will be done in the budgetary procedure, which, firstly, is future time and, secondly, will be in this budgetary procedure. What about the next budget procedure? The next majority will come, it will decide something else. We're putting the municipalities back on standby! We do not claim the authorship of this proposal, but to seek a path and a solution how to decide, however tendentially. Let the city know what they're counting on! And not today offers it, for example, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, the Patriots offer it tomorrow or it doesn't matter who. To seek a general solution! The budget procedure I accept that you will do it because elections are coming next year, and for local authorities, and colleagues from GERB are interested in giving more capital expenditure for the infrastructure of municipalities because they have the most municipalities. It makes sense they would do that. What about the others, what about the smaller municipalities, what about when they change mayors or power? How exactly do we guarantee them that this policy will be sustainable and continue? We open the debate with this proposal. We're not saying it's the best. But looking for it wasn't legal?! If it's decided, there won't be a solution? Is that what you mean? There's no such thing. Therefore, we ask you, if you do not support it in this way, make an offer now, so that the debate can go in this direction, otherwise the municipalities will leave them on stand-by. And I say again: we do not claim authorship, but to find a solution, because where will it go... Yeah, and the big trucks have wine taxes that go into the state budget, but don't they go through the municipal roads that are totally broken down because they're not designed to carry that kind of burden? The state is helping now. We have to find a solution! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u236	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Another line? Mr. Mitev. [[The National Representative Ramadan Atalay wants the floor.]] Do you have a line, Mr. Atalay? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u237	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Veselinov, I expected you to develop arguments in the direction that the proposal is in dubious compliance with the Public Finance Act, which determines in practice that all revenue from fees is entered into the budget and then the State Budget Act is allocated to what to go for. Why, for example, in the State Budget Act, should we limit ourselves to those 20% that are recorded in this proposal? They can be 30, in another budget they can be even more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u238	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Atalay, please come in. You have the floor for the third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u239	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, this is the stands where a man, appearing here, must know that he is making politics. I am not worried that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is proposing a text with which it makes policy in the interests of the municipalities, but it is not only for the municipalities of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Mr. Veselinov, is our proposal brilliant? I will not go into this subject because your genius proposals with 20% in other laws have seen the light of day yet we are wondering how to deal with them! However, the problem is that in this way, with this text that we offer you, and what your colleagues come up with as a line to give you the floor shows that neither you nor your colleagues are familiar with the Bill and you are not clear about what this is about. Colleagues, let those who understand and know what this is about, let's define these 20% to be in the interests of the municipalities, where, using the toll system, the vehicles concerned violate the relevant road infrastructure. That's what this is about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u240	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. A hole? You have the floor for the back, Mr. Vesselinoff. [[The National Representative Christian Mitev wants the floor.]] A statement, Mr. Mitev? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u241	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Thanks for the lines. I have heard many times: we are looking for a solution. Colleagues from the DPS, you haven't been looking for a solution at all. You have written a text about which you are clearly aware that it will not work, that it is unacceptable and that you cannot in this place in the Law solve this problem. You did it with a clear mind that you're doing it just to like each other. And if this is a way of making politics, I'm sorry, I don't understand it about making politics. Why can't he? Because if you were going to look for a solution, the only reason, for example, to spend that money, would be precisely this destruction of the infrastructure, but how much percentage is the 20%, 50%, how much? Is there any measurer, have you created any criterion, why you didn't offer, for example, as a source for the eradication of such damage, that it is possible after proving that the means of the toll system could be, for example, the means of the toll system? Instead, you just throw a number at a 20 that there is no explanation for. There's nothing behind it, there's no analysis. Nothing! The municipalities need money, so we'll take it from here because there's money here. Yeah, well, that's a fee, isn't it? And you know that in the Law it is determined how the fees are formed. The reply is to Mr. Letifov. That's why I say the proposal is illegal, because the special law says how to form the fees. In this case, you want us to escape the formula, escape the cost-oriented fees and collect fees simply because someone has needs somewhere. There is no such way to make government policy anywhere!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u242	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u243	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Apparently, the DPS remembers with nostalgia the times when they ruled during Saxe-Coburg, during the time of the triple coalition, when a lot of money from the state budget broke out in the municipalities they hold. And now, if you travel in the southern part of Haskovo region, not to mention Kardzhali, I'm not talking about Ludogorie, Razgradsko and Targovishtko, you will see some of the most beautiful in Bulgaria, small, probably 4th category, 5th category of dirt roads that are howling like snakes, no holes, no problems between the beaches and there are no problems. And now the DPS seems to want to get some money back in these same municipalities when they are normalized when they are defined within these 20%. They won't even have to make roads, come according to purpose, because the roads are made. So: A hungry chicken is dreaming! [[Relations, noise and laughter from DPS.]] They would very much like this 20% regulation to be given to them if they put it into law. But why 20%? That's what I don't understand! Why not 10%, why 30%? It's very random. So far I couldn't hear an argument why exactly 20% and not 25 or 15%? Based on what estimate is this figure defined? The other one. I have always been skeptical and very worried at the time when I wanted to, in the name of the beautiful phrase about decentralisation, the call is: Let's give the municipalities! What do we give the municipalities? Some money. I have always been worried and very suspicious in this phrase, in this call, because I have always believed that municipalities and municipal budgets and municipal money are the last place where our society will deal with corruption, with the bad expenses and with all the plagues of our society, which we are so often talking about. Once again, the municipalities are the last place! I am a supporter of money being held by the central government, by the state budget and putting in and giving where it is judged, where it is needed, where there is a purpose, if there is a need, it will not be left behind, this need will not be forgotten. And best of all is a principled approach, targeted, and not on the principle of municipalities as a kaplak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u244	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Line, Mr. Ali. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u245	I didn't want to go outside and replicate. Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Shopov, here's the letter. [[The National Representative Tanner Ali shows a document.]] I'll get it for you. It is from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, where, whenever the Board of Directors gathers at least twice a month, because I am also on the Management Board, there they discuss the problems of each of the 266 municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria. There they know precisely each municipality with what repair activities it is, with what capital subsidy and what costs were incurred for the year on certain infrastructure projects. I'll hand it over to you and you'll see their offer. That's where this 20% digit is contained. Obviously, because you understand all kinds of policies, you understand both piloting and regional development and ecology, in this regard I will provide it to you so that you know what this is about. I do not agree with what you are saying that only the mayors of the Municipalities of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, on the contrary, even you have praised us that our roads...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u246	Mr. Ali, can you finally put the map in its place before you finish? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u247	...where he manages the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is good. Thank you for your praise, though! Yeah. Let them do their job! [[Noise, lines and laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u248	You have the floor for a line. I won't. A hole? No. We keep voting if there are no other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 10, against 43, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MPs Ramadan Atalay and Tanner Ali, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 89 MPs: 18, against 36, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 12 with a text, according to the Commission's proposal. Vote 95 MPs: 88, against 3, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u249	Under § 14 "A proposal from Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, which has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 14, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 words, except for wine fees and fees under art. 10, para. 2 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u250	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 14, which shall become § 13. Vote 94 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u251	Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 56, para. 3, p. 1 all the way before the words the Board of Governors shall be added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u252	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 with a text, according to the Commission proposal. They voted 93 MPs: 90, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u253	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the proposal by Dora Jankova. Here is the content: The following amendments shall be made in § 15: 1. in point 31, after the words "toll fee' the text shall be placed and the text by the end of the sentence shall be removed; 2. point 33 3. point 34 is t. 33. The Commission supports, in principle, the wording of the importer for § 15 and proposes the following wording: ...... 15.................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions lays down t. 31.. 34............................................................................ ..31. "Paid road network" is a system of roads and their sections for the passage to which a fee or toll is collected and which are designated as such by the Council of Ministers in accordance with art. 10, para. 3. 32. "Declared tol data' is structured, standardised information defined by the person collecting tolls for his area of tolling, containing data on the unique identifier of the section/unique identifier of the charging facility, the name of the object/compartment, geographical reference point, a list of points used in the data elements of the section's description, calculated with accuracy up to 100 metres, charging rules, charged distance from the section (long term information to be used as the basis for calculating the toll fee for the section), the actual length of the section (the actual measured length of the section calculated to 100 metres for which the toll fee is collected), the location category of the section, registration number, vehicle category, date and time, and others. 33. A person collecting tolls is a legal entity designated to operate the electronic toll system under art. 10, para. 1 as well as establishing and collecting the relevant tolls with the help of this system. 34. The fuel map is a map for non-personal payment of fuel and other goods and services related to road transport, as well as road charges, fines and penalty payments.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u254	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I vote on the proposal of the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: 8 against 56, abstentions 32. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the Commission's proposal for the version of § 15 presented by the President of the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u255	Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... Annex 1 to art. 10, para. 1, t. 1 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-13.u256	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 16 with a text, according to the Commission proposal. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. That's how we finish the Law. Parliamentary control announcements on Friday 14 September 2018: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer one question from the MP Volen Siderov. 2. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the MP Velislava Krasteva. 3. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer two questions from the MPs Yordan Mladenov; and Petar Hristov Petrov and 1 question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the MPs Anton Kutev; Stanislav Vladimirov; and Georgi Gokov, Violeta Zhelev and Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova; and Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; - the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev to a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to three questions from the MPs Stefan Burgev; Georgi Gokov; and Georgi Gokov, Violeta Zhelev and Nikola Dinkov; and to one question with a written answer from the National Representative Daniel Yordanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; and to a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov and Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Next regular plenary session on 14 September 2018, Friday. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
