ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u1	Good morning, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly's Work Programme for March 14, 2018. "1." Second vote on the bill on measures against money laundering. Importer is the Council of Ministers - on 22 August 2017. The first vote was adopted on 6 October 2017. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 2. The updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached Draft Decision. Importer is the Council of Ministers - on 11 December 2017. 3. Ending the powers of a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means. The Commission for the Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Means and the access to the data under the Electronic Communications Act on 9 March 2018. 4. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Importers were Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 16 January 2018. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Development of the Academic Board in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers are Stanislav Stanilov and a group of MPs - on 21 June 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 13 July 2017. 6. A bill for ratification of the Convention on the International Hydrographic Organisation. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 February 2018. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Maritime Spaces, Inland Waterways and the ports of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. The first vote was adopted on 15 February 2018. 8. Draft Law on the ratification of the International Convention on the Control and Management of Ship's ballast waters and sediments. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 2 February 2018. 9. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. Vote 164 MPs: 115 against 35, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we have a proposal for inclusion on the agenda under art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Group of BSP for Bulgaria. They propose as a point in the Programme of the National Assembly for the period 14 March 2018 a vote on the Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances in relation to the planned sale of the CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria, No 854-02-14 of 28 February 2018. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Who's gonna present us with the proposal? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The announcement of the deal for the sale of the Czech company CEZ Group in Bulgaria caused a sharp public reaction and serious concerns in Bulgarian citizens. The transfer of ownership of the company providing electricity to more than two million people in one third of the country's territory into the hands of unclear owners under unclear circumstances and opaque funding is unacceptable in terms of national security. We have, of course, a lot of doubts about this deal. I suppose you, too, as MPs, have also been asked questions that, unfortunately, we cannot give a specific answer. The National Assembly as the highest authority in the country cannot remain a witness to what is happening in a strategic sector, which is undoubtedly energy. It is required to exercise its powers in order to establish all the facts and circumstances surrounding the procedure which led to the choice of a company established a few months ago with a capital of only 50 thousand. BGN, for the buyer of one of the largest energy enterprises in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Do you have a procedure, Mr. Tsvetanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u4	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! GERB's parliamentary group has always been about transparency and avoiding any populism on important topics that can lead to a division of society. Therefore, we do not have any concerns about a possible debate that should be held in the Bulgarian Parliament. We have demonstrated it with the extraordinary meetings of the Commission on Energy and the Commission for the Control of Special Services, where absolutely all relevant, both as regulators and state institutions, have been heard in order to carry out the controls and if there are doubts about any irregularities. From this point of view, we will support the proposal made by the BSP. Indeed, then it will become clear and come out the whole truth so that we can stop these speculations and play around with people's fears. Colleagues of the BSP, we support you in setting up such an inquiry committee and I believe that after the inquiry committee is completed, we will be able to actually present the objective truth to the public and not everyone to interpret it in their own way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. I put to the vote the proposal of the parliamentary group "BSP for Bulgaria" in the National Assembly Programme for this week to enter a point: "Vote the Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to establish all the facts and circumstances regarding the planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria, No 854-02-14 of 28 February 2018............................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Vote 175 MPs: for 174, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here's a suggestion, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I thank all the parliamentary groups for supporting the opposition's proposal. Since we can very quickly vote on this point, we have a concrete solution for the establishment of this committee of inquiry entirely on a money-based basis............................... by two MPs from a parliamentary group, let it be the first item on the agenda so that we can immediately start working in this committee and clarify the situation regarding the sale of the assets of CEZ Group Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. I put to the vote Mr. Stoynev's proposal that this point should enter as the first item in the Programme. Mr. Tsvetanov has another proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u8	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u9	Cancel the vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u10	From GERB's parliamentary group, we will support this proposal because we have said that we support the establishment of a committee of inquiry and the faster it is created, the better it will be for them to work more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u11	I put to the vote Mr. Stoinev's proposal to elect this committee to be the first item on the agenda today. Vote 177 MPs: for 177, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. First item: PROJECT FOR A DECISION TO ESTABLISH A TEMPORARY COMMISSION FOR THE ACCOMPANYING OF ALL FACTS AND FACILITIES WITH REGARD TO THE PLANNED SALE OF CEZ GROUP COMPANIES IN BULGARIA, No 854-02-14, 28 February 2018. Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, for proposals for the composition of the Commission. [[Noise and lines.]] First, we need to see what principle it will be formed on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I will read your decision: Project! DECISION establishing a Temporary Commission for the establishment of all facts and circumstances regarding the planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 and 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, HAS DECIDED 1. Set up a Temporary Commission to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria. 2. The Commission shall consist of 10 Members of 3. Selects the Management and Composition of the Temporary Commission as follows: Chairman, Members. 4. The Commission is elected for a period of one month.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u13	Please give me the solution project. [[The National Representative Dragomir Stoynev presented the draft decision to President Tsveta Karayancheva.]] Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Lazarov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! From GERB to, we support the establishment of such an inquiry committee. Yes, we are, of course, in favour of being on a parietal principle, but I suggest that there should be one supplement................................................................ [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm going to ask you to put it to the vote. Having worked for transparency, for clarity, it is clear how time privatisation and the planned sale were carried out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u15	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! At the risk that it is becoming questionable what is happening in this House, we, the opposition, are in favour of the government's proposal because we believe that it is important to have clarity in this deal from the very beginning. What's more, we've asked the D.A. for a similar investigation. Here in Parliament, we can be convinced of what has happened over the years.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Atalay, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we continue again and slip on the surface of populism. We have assessed that it is good to support the establishment of a temporary committee of inquiry, but when we hear in the title what this committee will deal with, we somehow continue to send some messages to all those who are enterprising, all who can contribute to the development of the economy in Bulgaria. First, in the title itself, let's put together a commission for the planned sale. Colleagues, is the Bulgarian country planning the sale? What are we doing? Or will we intervene in the relations of two companies, and especially the owner of another country that planned the sale, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria will investigate them? I'm surprised! As for privatizations, it's very good. Let's investigate, let's do, but after privatization control, which is controlling, passing through the stages, you should also read and see what and how it happened. Once again, I am telling you the topic on which, since the morning, all of us have unanimously applauded the people we agree to show to the Czech side that they are corrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. Are there any lines to Mr. Atali's statement? I can't see. Come in for a statement, Mr. Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will make a technical proposal to the BSP proposal. I'm a little worried about the number on a working committee. We know that it is an unwritten rule for committees to be of an odd number of members, since there is a presumption that they cannot decide on purely dividing the votes. Relax, business, without changing in any way the principle you propose. We propose to be on a parite principle, but to be three MPs each, so 15.. then the commission can work. We even expand the composition and we have the opportunity for the committee to work more transparently, more people to participate. I don't think we're making it difficult for the committee to work in any way. I am making a formal proposal on three MPs, even more people to take part and have an idea of the work on this so important problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Mihov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Are there any other statements? I can't see. Firstly, I will put to the vote the editorial amendments proposed by my fellow Members. First: A Temporary Commission is hereby established to establish all facts and circumstances regarding the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria. Vote 175 MPs: for 174, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. The second proposal is Mr. Mihov's:... consists of 15 MPs, three from each parliamentary group. Please, voting mode. Vote 171 MPs: For 164, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the entire Draft Decision establishing a Temporary Commission to establish all facts and circumstances in relation to the privatisation and planned sale of CEZ Group companies in Bulgaria. Vote 172 MPs: for 172, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, please come in for proposals on the composition of the Temporary Committee. Mr. Tsvetanov, please come in for a proposal for the composition of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u22	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On behalf of the parliamentary group we offer as members: Delyan Dobrev, Valentin Nikolov and Dimitar Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Stoynev, please come in for a proposal on the composition of the Temporary Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Zhelyo Boychev and Mr. Tasco Ermenkov and Mr. Krum Zarkov are proposed as Chairman of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u25	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u26	The proposals of the United Patriarchs are for the Commission: Peter Petrov, Nikolay Alexandrov and Alexander Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u27	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of Parliament, as Commissioners we propose: Ramadan Atalay, Elhan Kulkov and Sergey Kichikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u29	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Here you go, Mr. Donchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u30	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the parliamentary group of Volya. We offer Polina Tsankova, Albena Naydenova and Plamen Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u31	Colleagues, we have the proposals of all parliamentary groups. There is only one proposal for Chairman of Mr. Zhelyo Boychev. If there is no other candidate, I will put to the vote the President and the members of the Commission. I won't read them again. I put to the vote the proposals of the parliamentary groups for members of the Commission and for Chairman Mr. Zhelyo Boychev. Vote 180 MPs: for 178, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, I will read you the draft laws and decisions from 7 March to 13 March 2018: A bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products. Importers are Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs. The Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling is leading. A bill to supplement the Energy Act submitted by Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Energy is the lead. Draft declaration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria on unacceptable public behaviour of a Member of the National Assembly. Importer: Veselin Mareshki. Draft amending and supplementing the Civil Procedure Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. Report on the activities of the Economic and Social Council 2017. Importer is the Economic and Social Council. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. Message: In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, the Deputy Prime Minister of Public Order and Security and the Minister of Defence informs the National Assembly that by his order on the grounds of art. 13, para. 1, t. 2 of the same Law has authorised the preparation of military personnel from the members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Macedonia from 11 March 2018 to 21 March 2018. The preparation shall be carried out in accordance with a protocol between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Macedonia on the conduct of training of military personnel in 2018, signed in Skopje on 8 February 2018. The detention of non-military Allied forces in the airspace and in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall be between 13 March 2018 and 21 March 2018 in a total of four members of the armed forces of the Republic of Macedonia. The preparation shall not be related to military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, or activities to prevent military action conducted by another State or organisation of armed forces. The notification was received on 9 March 2018 and was made available to the Defence Committee. The second message is from the National Statistical Institute. Information was received on indexes of turnover in the section of the Department of Retail Trade, excluding trade in motor vehicles and motorcycles in January 2018; indexes of industrial production in January 2018; indexes of construction production in January 2018. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to item two on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR MEASURES AGAINST PARI'S INSTRUCTURING. Mr. Tsvetanov, would you like to introduce us to the report?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u32	Dear Mr. President, before we continue the texts of the Law, I propose: on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly, please allow: Krasimir Tzipov Deputy Minister of Interior, Nikolay Nenkov Vice-President of the State Agency
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 108 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. Please invite the guests to enter the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u34	"Additional provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 1, there is a proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Dimitar Lazarov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the "1." "Banca phantom" is a credit institution or financial institution within the meaning of art. 3, p. 2 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 or an institution carrying out activities equivalent to those carried out by such institutions established in a jurisdiction in which it does not have a physical presence involving concept and management and is not bound by a regulated financial group (a financial group subject to effective consolidated supervision). The presence of a local agent or executive staff does not meet the requirement for physical presence. 2. The group shall be a group of undertakings consisting of a parent undertaking, its subsidiaries and legal entities in which the parent undertaking or its subsidiaries participate, as well as undertakings related to each other within the meaning of art. 22 of Directive 2013/34/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 26 June 2013 on annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements and related reports of certain types of undertakings amending Directive 2006/43/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directives 78/660/EEC and 83/349/EEC (OJ L 182, 19 of 29 June 2013.). 3. It is assumed that it will have an element of duration at the time of the establishment of a contact with the institutions and persons under this law. 4. Other official personal documents are the documents within the meaning of: (a) Art. 1, para. 5, t. 2 and 3 of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents; (b) Art. 40, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Asylum and Refugees. 5. Other legal entities shall be any non-personalised company or any other legal form, irrespective of the existence of a legal entity that may enter into a?, owns or manages funds and other financial assets or economic resources. 6. "Member State" is a Member State of the European Union. 7. The European Banking Authority established by Regulation (EU) No 1093/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Banking Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/78/EC (OJ L 331/12 of 15 December 2010.); the European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority established by Regulation (EU) No 716/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/79/EC (OB, L 331/48 of 15 December 2010) and the European Securities and Markets Authority established by Regulation (EU) No 1095/2010 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 establishing a European Supervisory Authority (European Securities and Markets Authority), amending Decision No 716/2009/EC and repealing Commission Decision 2009/77/EC (OB, L 331/84 of 15 December The Commission therefore 8. E-money is electronic money within the meaning of art. 34, para. 1 of the Law on Payment Services and Payment Systems. 9. The client shall be any natural or legal person or any other legal entity which engages in a business relationship or conducts a random operation or transaction with a person under art. 4. 10. The correspondence relationship is: (a) the provision of banking services by one bank (such as a correspondent) to another bank (such as a correspondent) including for the purpose of providing a current account or other account for liabilities and related services, such as cash management, international transfers of funds, cheque clearing, correspondent accounts and foreign exchange services; (b) the relationship between credit institutions, financial institutions within the meaning of art. 3, p. 2 of Directive (EU) 2015/849 and between credit institutions and such financial institutions where similar services are provided by an institution correspondent to an institution respondents, including relationships for the purpose of carrying out securities transactions or transfers of funds. 11. The Commission for Financial Supervision, the Bulgarian National Bank and the state bodies empowered by law or any other regulatory act to exercise general oversight of the activities of a person under art. 4. 12. A document is a document within the meaning of: (a) Art. Art. 13 and art. 14, para. 1 of the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents; (b) paragraph 1 t. 3 of the additional provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria; (c) Art. 21, para. 1 of the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens and members of their families; (d) an identity document issued by a foreign competent state authority with a unique identification number of the document, date of issue and validity, containing photo, names, date and place of birth of the person and nationality. There are no documents of identity and residence documents and the foreign driving licence of a motor vehicle. 13. A repeated infringement is the infringement committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree imposing a penalty for infringement of the same kind. 14. The following conditions shall be met by operations and transactions in relation to connected operations: (a) a series of successive transfers of funds or values from or to the same natural person, legal person or other legal entity which have been committed in connection with one obligation where each individual transfer is below the legal threshold but which together meet the criteria for applying the due diligence measures; or b) a series of transfers through different persons under art. 4 which relates to the same obligation, or (c) other connectivity established in view of the specifics of transactions or transactions based on the application of the measures under this law. 15. In the event of 5 or more administrative infringements of this law or of its implementing rules of the same kind within one year, there is a systemic infringement. 16. They are the Directorate General of the National Police, the Directorate General of Border Police, the Directorate General of Fire Safety and the Protection of the Population, the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior and the Office of the Military Police and the Minister of Defence. 17. The security services are the State Agency of Intelligence, the Military Information Office of the Ministry of Defence and the General Directorate of Organized Crime and the Ministry of Interior. 18. A senior official or employee who has sufficient knowledge of the risk exposure of the person under art. 4 in relation to money laundering and terrorist financing and a sufficiently high level of decision-making affecting this risk exposure and it is not necessary in any case to be an authority or member of a management body or representation of the person under art. 4. 19. An accidental operation or transaction is any operation or transaction related to the activity of a person under art. 4 which takes place outside the framework of established business relations. 20. The third country is a non-member country of the European Union. 21. The group for financial actions against money laundering (FATF) is the group established by Decision of the Heads of State of the G7 countries and the President of the European Commission at the G-7 Summit held in Paris in 1989.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u35	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I'll put two texts to the vote. First text of the importer for the name of the division "Additional provisions', which is supported by the Commission. Second text of the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 1. They voted 93 MPs: 78, none, abstention 15. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u36	According to § 2 a proposal was made by the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov: In the Additional Provisions of § 2, para. 1, t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." As regards foundations, associations and other non-profit legal entities, the actual owner shall be one or more of the following: 1. the founder, if he has reserved rights; 2. the representatives and members of the management body; 3. the members of the supreme body of foundations. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u37	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal by the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Todor Bajchev, Georgi Gokov and Slavcho Velkov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 15 against 63 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 2, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 75, none, abstention 13. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u38	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, in which the words) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. According to § 4, the Commission supports the text of the importer for § 4, in which the word "Statutes' is replaced by "Spreads' and, finally, the addition of "SOV', L 122/1 of 3 May 2013.) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. The explicit indication of one or more of the activities under art. 4 in the subject of the account activity of a legal person or other legal entity in the relevant public register where that activity is not subject to authorisation, licensing or registration, it is grounds to believe that that activity is carried out by occupation and that the person falls within the scope of the persons referred to in Article. 4 and the same is required to apply the measures under this law until it proves by official, accounting and other documents that that activity is not carried out by occupation or by accident.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u39	Statements? There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I'll put three texts to the vote. The first text is the text of the importer for § 3 with the Commission's proposed replacement, the text of the importer for § 4 with the Commission's proposed replacement in the text and the creation of a new § 5 by a text proposed by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 79, none, abstention 13. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u40	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 5 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u41	Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote. The first text is the text of the importer for the name of the division of the "Transitional and final provisions', supported by the Commission, and the Commission's proposal to reject § 5, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 5. They voted 93 MPs: 79, none, abstention 14. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u42	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... (1) The persons referred to in art. 4 for which the obligation to apply measures against money laundering has occurred until the entry into force of this law, make their internal rules in accordance with the requirements of art. 101 and send them for validation in accordance with Article 101. 103 within 4 months of the adoption of the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (2) The persons referred to in art. 4 for which by this law there is an obligation to apply measures against money laundering, adopt and send internal rules under art. 101 in the term under para. 1. (3) In the cases referred to in art. 104 persons under art. 4 for which the obligation to apply measures against money laundering arose until the entry into force of this law, shall carry out the notification under art. No. 104, para. 2 and 4 within 30 days of the adoption of the rule of law. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... The persons referred to in art. 4 t. 1, 3, 5 and 8 "11" for which the obligation to apply measures against money laundering arose until the entry into force of this law and did not create specialized services under the repealed Law on measures against money laundering (prom, SG No. ...), are obliged to establish services under art. 106 within 4 months of the entry into force of this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u43	You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. Let's move on to the vote. I put two texts to the vote. The first text is the version proposed by the Commission, of the wording of § 6 and the second text is the version proposed by the Commission, of the wording of § 7. Vote 85 MPs: 76, none, abstention 9. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u44	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 8: (1) Article 79, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 94, para. 2 shall apply after providing the relevant technical capability and building secure electronic communications channels. (2) Article 79, para. 3 shall apply after providing the relevant technical capability and the establishment of automated information systems or networks. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... (1) By 1 October 2018, the Registry Agency shall ensure the possibility of entering the data referred to in Article 1. 63, para. 4 in the relevant register under art. 63. (2) The persons subject to the requirement to enter the data under para. 1 in the relevant register under art. 63 requesting entry within 4 months of the expiry of the period under para. 1. (3) Non-profit legal persons under § 25 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities (Art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed,) which carried out re-certification until 1 October 2018, state for entry the data under para. 1 within 4 months of the expiry of the term under para. 1. (4) The persons under para. 3 which have re-registered since 1 October 2018, state for entry the data under para. 1 within 4 months of re-entry. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... The Council of Ministers shall adopt the rules of application of the law within 5 months of the entry into force of this law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u45	Statements? There are no speeches. I'll put four texts to the vote. The first is the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 8. The second text is the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 9. The third text is the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 10. The fourth text is the text of the importer for § 11, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 91 MPs: for 83, no objection, abstention 8. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u46	Under § 12, there is a proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova:... "2." § 12 concerning Art. 12, para. 9 shall enter into force from 1 January 2018 The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and does not support it by t. 2. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In the Tax Insurance Procedure Code (prom., SG No. 105 of 2005), Constitutional Court Decision No 2, the following amendments and additions shall be made: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 is created. For the purposes of administrative cooperation and the exchange of information under Chapter 16a, Sections IIIa, IV, V and VI, the revenue body other than the powers under para. 1 shall be entitled to access: 1. the information, documents and data collected in accordance with Chapter 2 of the Law on measures against money laundering and stored in accordance with Chapter Three, Section I of that Law, including information, documents and particulars on individual transactions and transactions; 2. the information, mechanisms and procedures for the integrated verification measures applied under Chapter 2 of the Law on measures against money laundering, as well as the internal rules, policies and procedures for the control and prevention of money laundering under Chapter Eight, Section I of that Law; 3. the information and details of the actual owners at the disposal of the persons under art. 61, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 62, para. 1 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, as well as the information and data under art. 63, para. 4 of the same law, registered in the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities and in the BULSTAT Register. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74, para. 1, t. 3 the words the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" or the officials of the State Agency shall be replaced by the Chairman of the State Agency "National Security" and the Director of the Directorate of Financial Intelligence and the Director of the State Agency "National Security" or others who are appointed by the Chair of the State Agency "National Security." 3. In Paragraph 2b of the Additional Provisions, the following shall be inserted after the words "OJ L 332/1 of 18 December 2015':) The Union is replaced by a comma and, finally, it is added to the Council Directive 2016/2258 of 6 December 2016 amending Directive 2011/16/EU as regards the access of tax authorities to information on the fight against money laundering (OB, L 342/1 of 16 December 2016.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u47	Statements? There are no speeches. I will put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova in the part which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 103 MPs: 5 against 47, abstention 51. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of § 12. Vote 95 MPs: 84, none, abstention 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u48	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: All funds and other financial assets or economic resources which are owned by the persons referred to in art. 4b, t. 2 and 3, regardless of whose ownership they are, as well as all funds and other financial assets or economic resources in possession held or controlled by the persons referred to in art. 4b, t. 2 and 3 as well as by persons acting on their behalf and on their behalf or at their direction, with the exception of the items and rights on which enforcement cannot be directed. (b) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: s) Everything acquired and generated by funds and other financial assets or economic resources held in possession held or controlled by the persons referred to in art. 4b, t. 2 and 3 as well as persons acting on their behalf and on their behalf or at their direction shall also be blocked from the relevant date by ) (a.k.a. 2. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7th para. 1 is amended as It shall be prohibited for natural and legal persons or other legal entities to provide funds and other financial assets or economic resources as well as financial services to persons referred to in art. 4b, t. 2 and 3 except by authorisation issued under the terms and conditions of art. 6................................................ 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 8 1 is amended as The transactions with blocked funds and other financial assets or economic resources of persons referred to in Article 1 (1) shall be prohibited. 4b, t. 2 and 3 as well as persons acting on their behalf and on their behalf or at their direction, as well as transactions in the provision of funds and other financial assets or economic resources to such persons. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The persons referred to in Article 3 (3) shall be the persons referred to in Article 3 (1). 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering is required, in case of suspicion of terrorist financing, to carry out identification of the clients and to verify their identification under the dubious operation or transaction under the order of Chapter Two, Sections V and VI of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, to collect information on the essential elements and value of the operation or transaction, relevant documents and other identification data and to notify the Financial Intelligence Directorate to the State Agency before the operation or transaction takes place, delaying its implementation within the time limit under the regulations governing the activity concerned. In such cases, the Directorate shall exercise its powers under art. 74 and 90 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. (b) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: In cases where the delay of the operation or transaction under para. 3 is objectively impossible or is likely to thwart actions in pursuit of the beneficiaries of a dubious transaction or operation, the person under art. 4 of the Law on measures against money laundering informs the Department of Financial Intelligence of the State Agency of the State Security (National Security Agency) immediately after it has been carried out, indicating the reasons why the delay was impossible. (c) New para. are created. 6 and 7: The Department of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security is able to obtain information on terrorist financing, except from the persons under para. 3 and by a state authority or through international exchange. In such cases, the Directorate shall exercise its powers under art. 74 and 90 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. (7) The Department of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security shall provide the person under para. 3 and the organs under para. 6 information relating to the notification made by him. The decision on the volume of information to be provided back for each specific case of notification shall be taken by the Director of the Directorate. (d) the current para. 6 becomes para. 8 and amended as follows: The persons referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of this Agreement shall be entitled to receive the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be entitled to receive the information referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering includes, in their internal rules under Chapter Eight, Section I of the same law, criteria for the recognition of suspicious operations, transactions and clients aimed at financing terrorism. (e) a new para shall be created. 9. In the case of the analysis of received in accordance with art. 76, 77 and 78 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering Information there is a suspicion of financing terrorism, Department of Finance Intelligence. 74, para. 3 of the same law. (f) the current para. 7 becomes para. 10 and amended as follows: The disclosure of information under para. 3 and 6 shall not be refused or restricted for reasons of professional secrecy, banking, commercial or professional secrecy or that it constitutes tax and security information or protected personal information and shall not give rise to liability for breach of the restrictions on disclosure of information provided for by a contract, legal or regulatory act or administrative act. (g) the current para. 8 becomes para. 11 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No (h) the current para. 9 " 11" became respectively. 12 - 14 and are amended as follows: The persons referred to in Article 1 (2) (a) and (b) of this Agreement shall be entitled to receive the information referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and shall be entitled to receive the information referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, the authorities of art. 74, para. 4 and under art. 88 of the same law, the persons managing and representing them and their employees shall not notify their client or third parties of the disclosure of information under this law except in cases under art. 80, para. 2 - 5 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and Subject to Art. 80, para. 7 of the same law. (13) Information on the reporting of doubt under para. 3 shall be exchanged within the group unless the Director of the Department of Finance Intelligence. ) (a.k.a. 3. (14) Information on the reporting of doubt under para. 5 shall be exchanged within the group unless the Director of the Department of Finance Intelligence. (i) the creation of para. 15: The form and order for the submission of the notification under para. 3 and 5 are defined by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. 5. Article 9a is amended as follows: Art. 9a. (1) The supervisory authorities within the meaning of § 1, t. 11 of the Additional provisions of the Law on measures against money laundering are required to provide information to the Minister of Interior and the State Agency (2) The supervisory authorities under para. 1 carry out checks on the fulfilment of the requirements of this law by supervised entities. In the event of a breach, the supervisory authorities shall immediately notify the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency "National Security" by sending an extract from the constitutional act in the relevant part. (3) The Department of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security and the supervisory bodies under para. 1 may exchange classified information for the purposes of their statutory functions, subject to art. 87, para. 3 and 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. 6. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 9b and 9c: Art. 9b. (1) When the investigation and analysis of the information obtained under the terms and conditions of this law, the suspicion of terrorist financing shall not be dismissed, the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security shall exercise its powers under art. 75, para. 1 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. (2) Access to information under the terms of art. 75, para. 3 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering can be used for the purposes of this law, with full information provided under the terms and conditions of art. 75, para. Art. 3 and Art. 81, para. 2 of the same law. (3) The Prosecutor's Office, the respective Security or Public Order Office, the competent specialized departments of the State Agency "National Security" and the Directorate under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property received information from the Department of Finance Intelligence. 1 and 2 shall provide the Directorate with feedback on how the information provided was used, on how it was directed to another competent authority or institution, and on the results of investigations or inspections carried out on the basis of that information, including on pre-trial proceedings. (4) The information provided by the Department of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security. 1 and 2 constitutes an official secret within the meaning of the Classified Information Protection Act if it is not classified as a State secret within the meaning of the same law. Art. 9c. (1) The provision of information in the cases referred to in art. 9, para. 1 and 3 can also be performed electronically with a qualified electronic signature or with a issued by the State Agency of National Security. Upon receipt of the information, an entry number and date shall be automatically issued and sent to the sender by e-mail. (2) The terms and conditions of issue and use of the certificate of access under para. 1, the types of documents and data that can be submitted by using a qualified electronic signature or access certificate and the order for their submission by electronic means shall be determined by written instructions of the Director of the Department of Finance Intelligence. The instructions shall be published on the website of the State Agency. (3) The exchange of information in accordance with art. 9, para. Art. 6 and Art. 6 9a and 9b may be carried out through secure electronic communications channels subject to the requirements of the Classified Information Protection Act. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 11 is replaced by the In the cases referred to in art. 9, para. 1, 3 and 6 the Minister of Interior, or the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, may issue a written order to suspend a particular operation or transaction for up to five working days from the day following the day of the issue of the order in order to carry out an analysis, confirmation of the suspicion and disclosure of the results of the analysis carried out to the competent authorities. After carrying out the analysis, the Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security shall immediately inform the prosecution of the suspension of the operation or transaction, providing the necessary information while maintaining the anonymity of the person who made the notification under art. 9, para. 1, 3 and 6. Where no arrest or prohibition is imposed until the expiry of that period, the person referred to in art. 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering can carry out the operation or transaction. 8. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 11a: Art. 11a. (1) The Financial Intelligence Directorate of the State Agency of National Security shall use the information obtained under the terms and under this law to carry out strategic analyses under art. 84 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. (2) The Department of Finance Intelligence of the State Agency of National Security shall be able to use the information received under art. 76, 77 and 78 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and for the purposes of countering the financing of terrorism. 9. Article 14 is amended as follows: Art. 14. (1) The State Agency shall, on its own initiative and upon request, exchange information under this law with the relevant international authorities, with the authorities of the European Union and with the authorities of other countries on the basis of international treaties and/or under the conditions of reciprocity. (2) The Financial Intelligence Directorate shall, on its own initiative and upon request, exchange information on suspected financing of terrorism under the terms and conditions of Chapter Six, Section II of the Law on Measures against Money Insurance. 10. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 14a: Art. 14a. Control of the fulfilment of the obligations under this law by the persons under art. 4 of the Law on Measures Against Money Laundering is carried out by the President of the State Agency "National Security" under Chapter 9 of the Law on Measures Against Money Laundering. 11. Article 15 is amended as follows: Art. 15. (1) Whoever commits or allows a violation of art. 6, para. Article 4 (1) (c) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 7, para. Art. 1, art. 9, para. Art. 1 and 3 and art. 11, para. 1 and 2, if the act does not constitute a crime, shall be punishable by: 1. fine from 2000 to 10 000 BGN when the intruder is a natural person; 2. a penalty of 20 000 to 50 000 BGN when the intruder is a legal person or a sole trader; 3. Financial penalty from 30 000 to 100 000 BGN when the intruder is a person under art. 4 t. 1.. 6 and 8. 11 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 The penalty is: 1. 1, t. 1 - fine from 5000 to 20 000 lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2 times para. 1, t. 2 punitive from 40,000 to 100 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3 times para. 1, t. 3 000 to 200 000 BGN. (3) For systemic violations under para. 1, if the act does not constitute a crime, the penalty shall be: 1. 1, t. A fine of 5 000 to 2 000 000 lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2 times para. 1, t. BGN 2 000 to BGN 2 000 000. or to the double amount of the benefit of the infringement if the infringement can be established; 3 times para. 1, t. 3 000 to 10 000 000 BGN. or up to 10 per cent of the annual turnover, including gross income according to the consolidated report of the final parent undertaking for the preceding year, consisting of claims on interest and other similar income, income from shares and other variable or fixed income securities and commissions and/or charges. (4) Fines under para 1, item 4. 1 and para. 2, p. 1 shall also be imposed on a person managing and representing a person under art. 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and of a person responsible for carrying out or exercising internal control over the performance of the duties of a person under art. 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and the Rules for its Implementation, where such persons have committed or admitted, or have participated in an infringement ) (a.k.a. 1. (5) For systemic violations under para. 1, if the act does not constitute a crime, the penalty shall be: 1. fine of 5000 lv. up to 2 000 000 leva. If the offender is a person managing and representing a person under art. 4 t. 7 and 12 of the Law on measures against money laundering and a person responsible for carrying out or carrying out internal control of the performance of the duties of a person under art. 4 t. 7 and 12 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and the Rules for its Implementation, when these persons committed or admitted or participated in an infringement under para. 1; 2. fine of £10,000. up to BGN 10 000 000 when the intruder is a person who manages and represents a person under art. 4 t. 1.. 6 and 8. 11 of the Law on measures against money laundering as well as a person responsible for carrying out or carrying out internal control of the performance of the duties of a person under art. 4 t. 1.. 6 and 8. 11 of the Law on measures against money laundering and the Rules on its application when those persons committed or admitted or participated in an infringement ) (a.k.a. 1. (6) In the cases of infringements committed by a person who is a civil society within the meaning of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, a lawyer's association within the meaning of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law (7) Person under para. 4 where a fine has been imposed with an effective criminal decree under para. 5, shall not hold a senior management position in the case of a person referred to in Article 5. 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering for a period of one year. (8) Under the conditions of para. 3 on a proposal from the President of the State Agency "National Security" or the Minister of Interior, or on his own initiative the authority which has granted the authorisation or license to carry out the activity of a person under art. 4 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, may withdraw the authorisation or licence issued for the activity concerned or order the deletion of the entry................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (9) The acts under para. 8 shall be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) The State Agency "National Security" shall publish in due time on its official website information on all criminal decrees that impose penalties for violations of this law. The publication shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of art. 122 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. 12. In the Additional provision: (a) the name (b) in § 1: (aa) point 3 is amended as follows: "3." It is the direct or indirect, unlawful and deliberate provision and/or collection of funds and other financial assets or economic resources and/or the provision of financial services with the intention of being used or knowing that they will be used in whole or in part to carry out terrorism, financing terrorism, recruiting or training individuals or groups of people for the purpose of carrying out terrorism, exiting or entering the country's border, as well as illegal residence in it for the purpose of participating in terrorism, forming, directing or participating in an organised criminal group, which aims to commit terrorism or financing terrorism, preparing to commit terrorism, theft for the purpose of obtaining funds for the purpose of providing terrorism, the correction of an official document to facilitate the conduct of terrorism, apparent incitement to commit terrorism or to committing terrorism within the meaning of the Criminal Code. (bb) point 4 is repealed; (c) The creation of a t. 5. It's five o'clock. In the event that 5 or more administrative infringements of this law of the same kind have been committed within one year, there is a systemic infringement. (c) a new § 1a shall be created: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. This law introduces requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/849 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 May 2015 on the prevention of the use of the financial system for the purposes of money laundering and terrorist financing, amending Regulation (EU) No 648/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Directive 2005/60/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council and Commission Directive 2006/70/EC (OJ L 141/73 of 5 June 2015.) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u49	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 13. They voted 102 MPs: for 89, against none, abstentioned 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u50	The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... (1) Article 9c, para. 1 of the Law on Measures Against the Financing of Terrorism shall apply after providing the relevant technical capability and building secure electronic communications channels. (2) Article 9c, para. 3 of the Law on Measures Against the Financing of Terrorism applies after providing the relevant technical capability and building of automated information systems or networks. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u51	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote four texts: the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 with a text which was presented by the rapporteur; the second text of the applicant for § 14, which becomes § 15 and is supported by the Commission; the third text of the applicant for § 15, which becomes § 16 and is supported by the Commission, and the fourth text of the applicant for § 16, which becomes § 17 and is supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 15. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u52	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In the BULSTAT Register Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) A new para shall be created. 3: In the register BULSTAT shall also register natural and legal persons and other legal entities acting in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria as trust owners of trusts, trust funds and other similar foreign legal entities established and existing under the law of the jurisdictions allowing such forms of trust ownership. (b) The current para. 3 and 4 become respectively. 4 and 5. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6 para. 1 is amended as The BULSTAT code of the persons referred to in art. 3, para. 1, t. 1 seven and ten, para. 2 and para. 3 is 9-digit. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1: (aa) in the text before t. 1 after the words. 3, para 1, item 3. 1 "8" is a comma and is added "al." For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (bb) The creation of a t. 19: "19." the identity of the actual owners and the legal persons or other legal entities through which control is exercised directly or indirectly, as required by the Law on measures against money laundering. (b) in para. 2: (aa) in the text before t. 1 after the words. 3, para. 1, t. 9 "11" is a comma and is added "al." For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: (bb) The creation of a t. 9. Nine. the identity of the actual owners and the legal persons or other legal entities through which control is exercised directly or indirectly, as required by the Law on measures against money laundering; (c) in para. 4 after the words "al." 1, t. 5 "9" is added. The words "al." 2, p. 2, 4 and 5 and shall be replaced by......................................................................................................... 2, p. Two, four, five and nine. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1 after the words. 7, para. 1 t. 1 "S 17" is added. 19................................................................................... 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) in the text before t. 1 words.............................................................................. 3, para. 1, t. 1.. 8 and para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 3, para. 1, t. 1.. 8, para. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following (b) a point (j) is created: A statement on the identity of the actual owners and the data on legal persons or other legal entities through which control is exercised directly or indirectly, as required by the Law on measures against money laundering. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 is created. 3: For non-compliance within the limits of the obligations under art. 12 concerning the entry of the data under art. 63, para. 4 of the Law on measures against money laundering imposes sanctions under the Law on measures against money laundering. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm In the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with the companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, their controlled persons and their actual owners (prom, SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: In the register under para. 1 shall be entered in the circumstances of art. 4 t. 2, 3, 5 "8" as well as: 1. the details of the company registered in a jurisdiction with preferential tax regime, the identification of the actual owners and the data on legal persons or other legal entities by which control is exercised directly or indirectly, as required by the Law on Measures against Money Laundering; 2. any change in the circumstances under art. 4 t. 2, 3, 5 "8" and the data under item 2. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. (b) in para. 4 words................................................................................. 3, p. The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission 2. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision, paragraph 3 is replaced by the following: 5 and 6 are amended as follows: It's five o'clock. The term of Paragraph 2 shall be understood as meaning in Paragraph 2. 3 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. 6. The actual owner is a concept within the meaning of § 2 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u53	Before I give the floor for speeches, please fellow Members, let's congratulate the students from the school of Father Paisiy. They are our guests today. [[The National Representative greets the guests with applause.]] Thank you. Statements? I won't. I'll put two texts to the vote. The first text is the version proposed by the Commission to § 17, which becomes § 18 and the second text is the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 18, which becomes § 19. They voted 110 MPs: 92, none, abstention 18. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u54	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 1 is created t. 20: It's 20. is a supervisory authority under the Law on measures against money laundering and the Law on measures against the financing of terrorism. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1 is created t. 34: It's 34. exercise the powers of a supervisory authority under art. 8, para. Art. 3 and Art. 71, para. 1 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering; 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 6 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (b) c. 7 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. (c) create a t. 20: It's 20. exercise the powers of a supervisory authority provided for in the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, in its implementing acts and in the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism, in respect of the persons referred to in art. 4 t. 8 - 10 and 31 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering; 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 18 after the words the Insurance Code is placed comma and added to the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and to the Act on their Implementation. (b) c. 19 after the words the Insurance Code is placed comma and added to the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and to the Act on their Implementation. (c) create a t. 26: "26." exercise the powers of a supervisory authority provided for in the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, in its implementing acts and in the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism, in respect of the persons referred to in art. 4 t. 5 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering; 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 11 a comma shall be placed after the words "social insurance" and added to the Law on measures against money laundering and of the acts of its application. (b) c. 13 a comma is finally placed and added to the Law on measures against money laundering and its implementing acts. (c) create a t. 19: "19." exercise the powers of a supervisory authority provided for in the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, in its implementing acts and in the Law on Measures against the Financing of Terrorism, in respect of the persons referred to in art. 4 t. 11 of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering; 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 1 after the words the claim for insurance is a comma and the claim for measures against money laundering, the Law on Measures against Terrorism Financing is added; (bb) c. 6 after the words the claim for insurance is a comma and the claim for measures against money laundering, the Law on Measures against Terrorism Financing is added; (b) in para. 3 after the words the Special Investment Purposes Service is placed comma and added the Call for measures against money laundering, the Law on Measures against Terrorism Financing. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19th para. 2, p. 1 after the words the Act for the Implementation of Measures against Market Abuse of Financial Instruments is a comma and the Act for Measures against Money Laundering, the Law for Measures against Terrorism Financing, is added. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25, para. 11 words.............................................................................. The The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 22. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u55	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: the first text of the version which the Commission proposes in the text of § 19, which is § 20; the second text of the importer for § 20, which becomes § 21, which is supported by the Commission; the third text of the applicant for § 21, which becomes § 22, which is supported by the Commission; the fourth text of the applicant for § 22, which becomes § 23 and which is supported by the Commission; and the last fifth text of the applicant for § 23, which becomes § 24 and which is supported by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: 91, no objection, abstention 17. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u56	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Deposit Guarantee in Banks (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 11, para. 3 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 (2). The Commission proposes to establish § 26-30: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21b. 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. documents containing information or data showing clear origin of the means of carrying out business fisheries. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21d, para. 2 t. 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. documents containing information or data showing clear origin of the funds; § 27. In the Law on the Storage of Carbon dioxide in the Earth's Deep (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 46, para. 2 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." documents containing information or data showing clear origin of the funds; § 28. In the Law on Energy Efficiency (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 81, para. 1, t. 1 words.............................................................................. 11 of § 29. In the Law on Private Security Activities (prom., SG No. 10 from 2018) in § 4, para. 3 of the Transitional and Final Provisions the words......................................................................................................... The following points are inserted after point 4 (Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the § 30. In the Law on the Commercial Register and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities (prom., SG No. ...) in art. The 40th para is created. 6: For non-application of entry of the data under art. 63, para. 4 of the Law on measures against money laundering imposes sanctions under the Law on measures against money laundering.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u57	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the following texts: the first text is the version proposed by the Commission, in the wording of § 24, which becomes § 25, and the next text is the Commission proposal to establish paragraphs 26 to 30, including with the content proposed by the Commission and presented by the rapporteur. Voted 103 MPs: 91, none, abstention 12. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u58	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... The Law on Measures against Money Laundering (prom., SG No. ...) is repealed. The Commission proposes to establish § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Paragraph 29 shall enter into force from 31 March 2018 and shall apply from 31 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u59	Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the first text of the drafts proposed by the Commission for a text of § 25, which shall be § 31; the second text............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Voted 103 MPs: 91, against 1, abstention 11. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u60	Dear Mr President, I would like to thank absolutely all the institutions that were actively involved in the working group. I want to thank: - referees; - State Agency "National Security" which had a huge responsibility under the bill; - Ministry of Interior and - all institutions and NGOs who expressed their desire to participate in the working group and to hear their opinions. I would also like to thank my colleagues from the opposition and all representatives of the parliamentary majority, because with this bill we restrict the possibility of imposing a criminal procedure on Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u61	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, we continue with the next item on the agenda: AQUALISED STRATEGY FOR NATIONAL SECURITY OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA AND PROJECT FOR DECISION. I give the floor to Mr. Lazarov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u62	Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, Brigadier General Svetoslav Daskalov, Director of the Military Information Service, Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency of National Security, Mr. Dragomir Dimitrov, Chairman of the State Agency of Intelligence, Mr. Emil Goranov, Chief Expert at the DAR, Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence, and Mr. Krasimir Zipov, Deputy Minister of Interior.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u63	Please vote on the admission procedure. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u64	Dear Madam President, I am reading a summary of: ♪ I can't believe on a draft updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria and a draft Decision, No 702-00-48, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 11 December This Decision shall At joint meetings held on 25 January 2018 and on 7 March 2018, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act, the Internal Security and Public Order Commission and the Defence Committee examined the draft updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached draft Decision. The meetings were attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the security and public order services and experts and lecturers in the field of national security. The draft updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria is submitted for adoption by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 16, p. 5 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria in connection with art. 7, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. Mr. Georgi Krastev pointed out that the project was developed and adopted by the Council of Ministers in accordance with the recommendations of the Advisory Council for National Security and is in line with the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017-2 2021, Objective 44, Measure 160. The time horizon of the strategy is up to 2025. Following the adoption of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria from the 41st National Assembly on 25 February 2011 and especially after 2013-2014 in the Security Environment and, above all, internationally, there have been major changes which have imposed new concepts in NATO's strategic plan, in the European Union's assessments of the security environment and policies to be adopted at Union level. Essential conclusions have also been drawn on our part, which determine the development of the project. The updating of the Strategy aims to create maximum conditions for the protection of national interests and to achieve national objectives and priorities. The project outlines in detail the tasks in the different sectors for the implementation of security policies. The same are described in accordance with democratic values, fundamental rights and freedoms, equal opportunities for personal development, our national culture and are in line with the Constitution of the country and the basic acts to ensure international security. Renewing the definitions of priorities, strategic objectives and ways to implement them are detailed in sectoral security policies that provide a stable basis for effective and adequate countering new risks and threats. During the debates the MPs of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications expressed their support for the proposed draft of the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. They made their views on individual sectoral policies and made concrete proposals for amending and supplementing texts from the project. The Commission, following a vote on the proposals, adopted editorials of the texts under point (c) of paragraph 1. 14, 18, 21, 29, 30, 41, 51, 52, 77, 87, 93, 103, 111, 119, 125, 128 and 171 of the Project. On the basis of the discussion and the proposals adopted for amendments and additions of texts from the draft of the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications by 4 votes for
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u65	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. We are continuing with the Defence Committee Report. To say that the supported proposals by MPs in the three committees are divided into a separate copy and will be read a little later so that the reports are long and the proposals are repeated, so at the meeting of the Conference of Presidents these proposals were decided to be outside the reports, will be read by Mr. Tsvetanov and we will vote on them. Here you are, General Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u66	♪ I can't believe on an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria and a draft Decision No 702-00-48 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. The updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria was discussed at joint regular meetings of the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act, the Internal Security and Public Order Commission and the Defence Commission on 25 January 2018 and 7 March 2018. On 25 January 2018, 20 attended and 17 MPs from the Defence Committee attended on 7 March 2018. The meetings were attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of Interior, the Presidents of the National Security Agency and DCCI, Deputy Chairman of the Ministry of Defence and Deputy Director of the Ministry of Military Information. The meeting on 25 January 2018 was attended by Mr. Iliya Nalbantov, Chief of Staff of the Minister of Defence, representatives of higher education institutions and security experts. At the meeting on 25 January 2018, the updated Strategy for National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev, who recalled that the updated Strategy for National Security was drawn up in implementation of the Programme for Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. The National Security Advisory Council at a meeting on 30 May 2017 also expressed an opinion on the need to update and improve the National Security Strategy in accordance with the changed security environment. The updated strategy was adopted by the Council of Ministers, submitted for adoption by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 7, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The strategy outlines a broader understanding of national security, indicating the national interests, the necessary conditions and prerequisites for their implementation by neutralising the risks and threats to the country and its citizens. Brings forward the security of the citizen, public and economic aspects. He also examined matters related to defence, foreign policy, intelligence, public order security and the protection of legality. The strategy is intended to be implemented through policies. The updated Strategy proposes the inclusion of new policies such as cybersecurity, transport security, crisis management, youth and sport and the protection of national archives as part of cultural and historical heritage. The defence policy section has also been updated. The main challenges in defence and approaches to their overcoming are outlined. A gradual increase in the defence budget is envisaged to 2% of the country's gross domestic product. The implementation of investment projects for the acquisition of new main battle platforms and the overall modernisation of the armed forces is at stake. The importance of creating a system for transparent, clear selection and career development of servicemen and civilians is highlighted, which also includes an effective package of motivation measures. The implementation of the goals adopted by Bulgaria for NATO's collective defence capabilities and the building of defence capabilities of the European Union is also a key priority. The updated strategy will enable the mechanism for planning and implementing national security policies to be improved, including by making more effective use of the potential of Bulgaria's membership in NATO and in the European Union. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Interior, the intelligence community, higher education institutions and experts were heard. Support was expressed for the project and it was indicated that a total of 10 discussions were held between September and October 2017. Members of the Defence Committee spoke in the discussion: Slavcho Velkov, Spas Panchev, Petar Vitanov, Vladimir Toshev, Boris Vangelov. In conclusion, the chairman of the meeting emphasized the importance of the National Security Strategy, which is why it is very important to reach consensus on it and suggested that the MPs should send written proposals to the relevant committees to amend and supplement its texts. The Commission received opinions and proposals from the MPs: Nikolay Tsonkov, Nikolay Tsonkov and a group of MPs, Slavcho Velkov, Kolyo Milev, Konstantin Popov, Mustafa Karadai and a group of MPs. The specific proposals submitted to the Commission were put to the vote. The Defence Committee has supported proposals and a new version of the relevant texts, i.e. 14, 18, 29, 30, 41, 52, 77, 87, 93, 119, 128, 156, 162 and 171. Madam President, as you have already announced, the full text has been published. I suggest I don't read it. I move on to the Commission's opinion: On the basis of the discussion and the proposals adopted for amendments and additions of texts of the draft updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with 13 votes............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with an attached Draft Decision No 702-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u67	Thank you, dear General Popov. An opinion of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee that Mr. Tsvetanov will introduce us to. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u68	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! "COMMODITY" on an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. At their regular joint meetings held on 25 January 2017 and on 7 February 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Commission, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act and the Defence Commission examined and discussed the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria submitted by the Council of Ministers under No 702-00-48 on 11.12.2017 with the attached Draft Decision. The meeting was attended by: from the Council of Ministers: Georgi Krastev. Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers; from the Ministry of Interior: Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov. The updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with an attached draft decision was presented by Georgi Krastev. Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The strategy shall be submitted for consideration and adoption by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 16, p. 5 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act and art. 7, para 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The draft of the updated Strategy was developed in accordance with the Prime Minister's Order No P-128 of 6 July 2017 by an interdepartmental working group involving representatives of the institutions engaged in direct responsibilities in the field of national security. The project is part of the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. The project is subject to wide public discussion at several stages with the participation of representatives of the academic community, the non-governmental sector and others and has passed a coordination procedure before its examination at the Council of Ministers for adoption of a decision to submit to the National Assembly. Following the adoption of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria from the 41st National Assembly on 25 February 2011 and especially after 2013 It was noted in the statement that substantial conclusions have also been drawn from us in view of the objective circumstances which require the development of a draft amending and supplementing the National Security Strategy. The draft updated National Security Strategy is not only an up-to-date reading of national security related to global changes and challenges in the Balkans region and the Black Sea region, but also offers a reasonable balance to face the challenges of protecting our national security. The updated texts aim and address the problems related to resource security and the completion of the institutions of the system for ensuring our national security. The update of the Strategy aims to create maximum conditions for the protection of national interests and to achieve national objectives and priorities. It was noted in the exhibition that the renewal of definitions for priorities, strategic objectives and ways of implementing them are detailed in sectoral security policies which provide a stable basis for an effective and adequate response to new risks and threats. At the same time, new policies related to the development of information and communication technologies and the increasing importance of cyberspace for citizens, public authorities and businesses, youth security and sport and protection of national archives as part of cultural and historical heritage are also included. In a new way, the crisis management texts are formulated with an understanding of the need for regulatory and institutional strengthening, in developing the ability of institutions, society and citizens to prevent, respond and overcome harmful consequences. A place has been allocated to the security and defence services' problems. As a top priority is also the implementation of the military and civilian goals adopted by Bulgaria for NATO's collective defence capabilities and initiative to build the defence capabilities of the European Union. A thorough analysis of the external security environment and the dynamics of the processes in the world has been carried out, which provides for strengthening of the current and emerging new risks and threats to the security of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is said that international terrorism and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, regional conflicts, migration processes, cross-border organised crime in the Balkans, terrorist threats from religiously motivated groups, hybrid action against NATO and the EU, and specifically against our country, as well as many other listed risks, which require adequate management of the risks arising from them. The external environment, as well as the risks listed in the internal environment for our national security, require a complex of interrelated priorities and sectoral policies integrated with EU and NATO security policies, the UN, the OSCE. It has been pointed out that the internal plan focuses on strengthening the rule of law, countering corruption, transparency in the activities of the institutions, strengthening resource capacity, interaction between security services and increasing professionalism, coordination and effective control in the implementation of the powers of the security and public order services and the development of the forms of accountability to society. The priority tasks in the different sectors for the implementation of security policies are also detailed. The project also proposed texts to expand the opportunities of economic operators and the non-governmental sector in implementing policies to protect national security. The policies in the draft updated National Security Strategy are described in accordance with democratic values, fundamental rights and freedoms, equal opportunities for personal development, our national culture, are in line with the country's Constitution and the basic acts to ensure international security. The Commission has received proposals from MPs who have been put to the vote. The Internal Security and Public Order Committee has supported the following proposals and the new version of the relevant texts: Proposal by Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes an amendment to this point. 3. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and supports the wording of the proposal. 14. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of people and representatives in Section I. 2. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs in this section. 29. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from the MP Kolyo Milev and Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes an amendment to this point. 30. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supported the proposal and proposed a version of this. 41. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission has in principle supported the proposal and is proposing an amendment to this point. 52. Proposal by Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs. The Commission supported the proposal. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal and proposes an amendment On t. 77. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission has in principle supported the proposal and is proposing an amendment to this point. 87. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle and proposes an amendment to this point. 93. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission has in principle supported the proposal and is proposing an amendment to this point. 103. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission has supported the proposal on this. 111. Proposal by Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs. The Commission has, in principle, supported the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic role in this regard. 125 after editing. A proposal from Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs. The Commission has in principle supported the proposal and proposed an amendment to this point. 128. Proposal by Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs in this section. 139. The Commission supported the proposal. This report shall include proposals which are supported and which contain specific proposals for amending and/or supplementing texts from the updated National Security Strategy. On the basis of the vote held, the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order with 11 votes for Project! DECISION adopting an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 16 t. 5 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act in relation to art. 7, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System HAS DECIDED Adopts the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria (Annex). The decision was adopted by the 44th National Assembly and was sealed with the official seal of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u69	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. The report of the Committee on Foreign Policy follows. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u70	Madam President, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with an attached draft Decision No 702-00-48 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. At a meeting held on 24 January 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with an attached draft decision. The reasons for the draft decision were presented by Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The Vice-President of SANS Nikolay Nenkov presented the opinion of the Agency. Dragomir Zakov, Director of Security Policy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, took part in the meeting. The modern and dynamic security environment requires continuous improvement and renewal of the National Security Strategy so that its implementation protects national interests to the maximum extent. The proposal to update the 2011 National Security Strategy was reviewed and supported by the participants in the National Security Advisory Council held on 5 May 2017. On the basis of art. 7, para. 1 t. 2 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System, approved by the Council of Ministers Draft of updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria is proposed for consideration and adoption by the 44th National Assembly. The proposed project is prepared by an interdepartmental working group with the order of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and is subject to wide public discussion before its approval by the Council of Ministers. The National Security Strategy adopted in 2011 exhausted its action for a period of 7 years. The updated strategy has a time horizon up to 2025. The updating of strategic objectives and proposals for their implementation in sectoral security policies provide the basis for addressing new risks and threats. The strategy includes and analyzes new policies such as cybersecurity, transport security, crisis management and forms of protection of cultural and historical heritage. The project sets out the principles of national security policy in defence of national interests. Systematised are presented the risks and threats arising from the external and internal security environment which become more and more interconnected. The priorities of national security and sectoral security policies are clearly outlined. On the basis of the discussion held and the subsequent vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy, with 16 votes in favour, without the opposition and 3 votes in abstention, proposes to the National Assembly to adopt by Decision the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u71	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. We continue with the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on the Draft Decision on the adoption of an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. At its regular meeting on 31 January 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Decision on the adoption of an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The draft decision was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev to the political cabinet of the Prime Minister and Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria was adopted by the 41st National Assembly on 25 February 2011. The importers point out that after the change in the security environment, and in particular after the period 2013 - 2014, the need to update the National Security Strategy is imperative. The draft strategy update is part of the Government Management Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. Opinion on the implementation of the update was expressed by the National Security Advisory Council at a meeting held on 30 May 2017. The project was presented for public discussion at a number of universities in the country to an audience of experts, lecturers, researchers and students in the field of national security. The reasons for the draft decision are that the proposals received after the public discussions have been taken into account. I will not read the whole opinion, as part of it is contained in the Project's motives. I'll just pay attention to the discussion. In the subsequent discussion, the President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds noted that the text of the Strategy lacks an analysis of the risks associated with the future development of the European Union. It sets out the topics to which more attention should be paid, namely the scenarios for the future of the European Union, Brexit, the delay in our membership in the Schengen area, the development of the European Union at different speeds. KEVKEF President also disagreed with the text in the Strategy, which notes that the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism is useful for the reforms in Bulgaria, and said it is exhausted and efforts should be made to get out of it. Mr. Ivan Ivanov, member of KEVKEF, expressed his observation that the text in the updated Corruption Strategy has not changed from its version adopted in 2011, nor have specific measures to combat corruption in relation to EU funds been reflected. In response Mr. Krastev explained that new texts are added on the topic of corruption, which should contribute to its limitation. Regarding the topics Mr. Vigenin put forward, Mr. Krastev agreed that the strategy should be complemented with new texts. Mr. Petar Petrov, Vice-President of KEVKEF, stressed that the document is timely and reflects the national ideal of the state. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 5 votes for the European Parliament and 4 votes abstentioned by the National Assembly to adopt a draft decision adopting an updated Strategy for National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. Excuse me, Mrs. Karayancheva, I take this opportunity to say that the procedure under which the Strategy is being adopted today is not very clear, and the procedures under which the amendments to the Strategy itself have been made are not clear. I would suggest, in future, that appropriate changes be made to the Rules of the National Assembly to allow for adequate participation of all committees in the procedure for adoption of the Project. To the last, it was not clear whether it would be possible for specific proposals to be made by the committees, or in practice this is done simply for information and other committees, outside the three leading committees, have the opportunity to simply give an opinion on or against the Strategy, but not on motivated proposals that will then be included. I would suggest, in future, that, in such cases, an opportunity be made and that the procedure itself be clear in advance, that the committees give concrete proposals, which are then summarised by the leading Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u73	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. We'll take your offer into consideration. Indeed, there is no such detailed procedure in the Rules of Procedure. We continue with the opinion of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you are, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u74	"COMMODITY" of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism on the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with attached Draft Decision No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee at its meeting held on 14 February 2018 discussed and discussed the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached draft decision. The meeting was attended by Georgi Krastev. Secretary of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers, and Lachezar Borisov Deputy Minister of Economy. The updated strategy was presented by Georgi Krastev. The increased level of uncertainty in international relations since 2013 - 2014, changes in this connection in the strategic concept of NATO and the views of the European Union on the state of the environment, led to the need to update the strategy for national security of the Republic of Bulgaria adopted in 2011. The identified risks and threats in the internal security environment related to the country's economy concern economic crimes related to the so-called grey economy, complicated ways of money laundering, poor governance. Bureaucracy, abuses and inefficiencies in the management of state and municipal property are means of damaging the state budget and undermine the well-being and interests of citizens. This leads to violation of the principles of free competition and restriction of consumer rights and deterioration of the investment climate. The leak of trained specialists to higher remuneration countries is a prerequisite for an increasing personnel deficit in various economic areas. High dependence on energy resources creates vulnerability in economic and political terms. Financial and economic security policies suggest: maintaining the financial system and monitoring of the risks involved; maintaining macroeconomic and fiscal stability; preparing the country for membership in the European Monetary Union; conducting an effective policy on management of the revenue of the state budget in cooperation with all public authorities and in partnership with private economic entities; protecting the interests of investors, investors, insurers and insured persons by the banking and financial supervision authorities; effective prevention and countering attempts at fraud and abuse, including against the ineffective use of EU funds; developing economic potential by conducting a policy to increase labour productivity, reducing energy consumption and materials; increasing the competitiveness of businesses and creating a favourable environment for attracting investments, etc. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from the Parliamentary Group "BSP" for Bulgaria "Roumen Gechev and Hristo Prodanov" raised questions about the measures to overcome the demographic crisis and the type of partnership with private economic entities. After the end of the discussion and vote with results: the Economic Policy and Tourism Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached Draft Decision No 702-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u75	Thank you, dear Mrs. Saveklieva. Following is a report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you are, Mrs. Alexandrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u76	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with attached Draft Decision No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. At its meeting held on 17 January 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with an attached Draft Decision, No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council and Security Advisor in the Prime Minister's office. On behalf of the importer, the Strategy was presented by Mr. Krastev, who pointed out that it was developed in accordance with the recommendations of the Advisory Council for National Security and follows the policy of the government set out in his programme. He noted that the Strategy has been updated in view of the current risk assessments and threats to national security, including 29 new points, while others have dropped due to the loss of their actuality. Mr. Krastev drew attention to the additions made in the section "Justice and Internal Order" as well as to the scope of the national security system, where the role of the academic community and non-governmental organizations has been strengthened to a greater extent. Members of parliament Krum Zarkov, Dimitar Stoyanov and Todor Baychev took part in the discussion, who said they would support the draft of the updated Strategy. Mr. Zarkov stated that the proposed strategy does not differ substantially from the one adopted in 2011, but contains an important change in principles. He pointed out that the introduced principle of rule of law finds a practical dimension in point. 77 of the Strategy, according to which upholding the rule of law, good governance and countering corruption are crucial for national security and for validating the law. Mr. Stoyanov and Mr. Baychev emphasized on the need to include the development of the backward regions in Bulgaria, the protection of Bulgarian production, the protection of the population from the spread of low quality and harmful to health products, the establishment and countering of the causes of corruption in Bulgaria, as well as the prevention of personal security of citizens. In response to Mr. Baychev's question, it was pointed out that the Council of Ministers and other state bodies concerned with the National Security Strategy are the competent authorities controlling its implementation. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 16 votes for the Council of Ministers proposed to adopt the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached Draft Decision No 702-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u77	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications. Mr. Milushev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u78	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with attached Draft Decision, No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 17 January 2018, an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria was discussed with the attached Draft Decision No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, Mrs. Radoslava Genova, Director of the Directorate of Security, Technical Supervision and Crisis Management and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Georgi Krastev, advisor to the political cabinet of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached Project for a Decision was presented to the members of the Commission by Mr. Georgi Krastev, who said that the draft for updating the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria is part of the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017-2 2021. The reason for the Council of Ministers to propose to the National Assembly to adopt the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria is art. 7, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. During the presentation of the draft strategy update, it was noted that it was proposed for public discussion in the period 28 September "October 20th to experts, lecturers, researchers and students in the field of national security, and that it includes new policies such as cybersecurity, transport security, crisis management, youth and sport and protection of national archives as part of cultural and historical heritage. Security policies in the Transport and Communications sector were presented by Mr. Dimitar Genovski, who said the representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications worked to update the overall appearance of the document. Mr. Genovski noted that the purpose of the transport sector is for our country to have a fully integrated, competitive and sustainable transport system to meet the needs of society in economic, social and environmental terms. The vision is by 2030 Bulgaria to own a modern, safe, secure and high quality transport system. These main priorities are set out in the draft updated Strategy and are in line with the Management Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 and the Integrated Transport Strategy for the period up to 2030. Another significant addition to the updated Strategy is the inclusion of security policies in the sector "Communications" aimed at sustainable development in the field of electronic communications and postal policy and ensuring the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria in these areas related to its membership in the European Union and in international organisations. The proposed texts correspond to the Law on Electronic Communications, the Law on Postal Services and the adopted Sectoral Postal Policy of the Republic of Bulgaria. After the vote was taken, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications with 12 votes for the Council and 8 votes abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with an attached draft decision, No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u79	Thank you, dear Mr. Milushev. Guys, we're gonna stop here. We'll continue after the break. Today we will have the pleasure of enjoying two exhibitions, which we will find in the Club of the People's Representative. There will be the exhibition of young Sevliev painters under the title "Spring Sevlievo" in the northern lobby, where the photo exhibition is arranged. I love Stara Zagora. Come on in so we can find the exhibitions. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u80	We continue with the reports on the item on the agenda. Next, a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u81	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a draft updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with attached Draft Decision No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting, held on 31 January 2018, examined and discussed an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with attached Draft Decision No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, who presented the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with an attached draft decision. He pointed out that the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria addresses the national interests, the necessary conditions and prerequisites for their realization of the risks and threats to the country and its citizens. The changing security environment requires a new level of priorities in security policy. The National Security System is being built to achieve modern manageability of the efforts of state institutions, local authorities, business operators, citizens and their organizations to ensure the principles of democracy and the sustainable economic development and prosperity of the country. The updated Strategy has a time horizon up to 2025. In the matter of scope of competence of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is information on certain aspects of social security. The Republic of Bulgaria considers social security as a unity of high quality in education, health, material and spiritual living conditions, employment, social security and social assistance and overcoming the demographic collapse. The Republic of Bulgaria directs its efforts to counter the negative demographic trends for the development of society by creating economic and social conditions, as well as by developing a well-trained and knowledge-oriented society that is able to capitalize its resources of intelligence and creativity as much as possible. A prerequisite for achieving a high quality of social security is the modernisation of basic, secondary and higher education in both public and private schools through strict application of national standards. The main focus is on limiting illiterateness, preventing early dropout of children from the educational system, achieving a level of functional literacy, which will provide opportunities for personal and social development, attracting young people to the teaching profession, developing the technological base and ensuring a link between business needs and education, building common human values and reducing aggression. The Bulgarian nation is built and developed on the basis of uniform citizenship as well as on the basis of the principle of solidarity applied strictly in social protection systems. The state guarantees minimum income and vital level of the most vulnerable groups. The violations, in any area of social policy, lead to failures and negative processes in other areas or in all other areas. This requires that, through advisory and interconnected management actions, measures be taken to prevent or to cross negative processes at the very beginning. In order to achieve and maintain a competitive economy and increase the level of life of Bulgarian citizens, it is necessary to encourage employment, overcome the passivity of people of active age and to increase the qualification to achieve higher incomes from work, opportunity for personal realization. The importance of integration of citizens from groups into marginalized labour market is growing. After the end of the discussion and a vote with a result of 12 votes, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft updated National Security Strategy for the Republic of Bulgaria with an attached draft Decision No 702-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u82	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Next, a report from the Energy Commission. You're welcome to present the report, Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria and a draft Decision No 702-00-48 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. At its regular meeting on 25 January 2018, the Energy Commission discussed an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria and a draft Decision No 702-00-48 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. The meeting was attended by the Council of Ministers: Mr. Georgi Krastev. Secretary of the Security Council; the Ministry of Energy: Mr. Zhecho Stankov. The draft updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev Secretary of the Security Council. The draft updated Strategy states that the stability of the energy system is extremely important for the functioning of the economy and society. Improving energy security as an element of national security is a long-term process requiring investment and sustainable state policy. The priority for energy security is the construction and maintenance of interconnections with neighbouring countries' networks, the use of the opportunities for own extraction, the expansion of the gas storage facility in Chiren and the construction of a gas distribution centre, which will help reduce energy dependence in the region and build a competitive and liberalised gas market. The Republic of Bulgaria supports the development of international projects within the Southern Corridor, which allow for the delivery of natural gas and transit through Bulgarian territory to neighbouring countries. Our country also supports the three seas initiative related to the construction of energy infrastructure along the north-south corridor. The development of nuclear energy is strategically important. Particularly is the extension of the operating life of the 5th and 6th block of the nuclear power plant "Kozloduy" and the construction of new capacities as a promising resource for the production of emissionless electricity, with strict respect for security measures, radioactive waste management and decommissioning. Another priority in energy security policy is increasing energy efficiency and promoting energy saving. In the subsequent discussion, the people's representative Mr. Tasco Ermenkov noted that the draft of the updated Strategy talks about only one gas repository and the 2011 Strategy for Gas Warehouses. With regard to the north-south corridor, it is not specified whether it concerns the Republic of Bulgaria or Europe. People's representative Valentin Nikolov commented on the upcoming entry of the electric cars and the change of the transport profile and accordingly the construction of the necessary infrastructure. People's representative Delyan Dobrev asked a question about the possibility of becoming a second gas storage facility. People's representative Atanas Kostadinov said that it is necessary to strengthen the state policy in the field of domestic gasification, as at the moment access to gas infrastructure has about 2.5 of the population. Mr. Zhecho Stankov, Deputy Minister of Energy, said that at the moment "Bulgartransgaz" are carrying out actions related to the expansion of the gas storage facility. The north-south corridor is viewed in two directions: electricity and gas infrastructure. Varna and Burgas substations are to be built, high voltage lines from the Marishka pool to Plovdiv, Burgas and Nia Santa, Bulgaria gas interconnector. Deputy Minister Stankov affected and already completed works and putting the interconnector with Romania into service and future actions related to interconnectors with Serbia and Turkey. Regarding the possibility of becoming a gas storage facility, a careful legal analysis should be carried out in terms of the rights available to it and in what way and when the State can benefit from these geological structures, the quantities of gas already exhausted in them. Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council, added that in the section related to transport security, there are texts concerning the amendments that will occur with the entry of the electric cars. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held the Energy Committee of the Republic of Bulgaria and the draft decision, No 702-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u84	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Before we continue with the next report, honourable Members, I would like to inform you that visitors to the National Assembly today are mayors and mayors of Stara Zagora municipality. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] We are continuing with the report of the Committee on Environment and Water. Here you are, dear Mrs. Vasileva, to present the Report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with attached Draft Decision, No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. At a meeting held on 25 January 2018, the Environment and Water Committee examined the draft updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached Draft Decision No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. The draft updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria is proposed for adoption by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 8, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 88, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Art. 7, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on the Management and Operation of the National Security Protection System. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Waters: Nikolay Kanchev Deputy Minister, and Ganya Hristova Director of Environment Policy and by the Council of Ministers: Georgi Krastev Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers. The project for updating the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. He noted that in the field of environment and water, compared to the 2017 text, a single text has been added to the Security Policy in the relations of a person and nature, which says that Bulgaria continues to work to reduce the negative impact of anthropogenic factors, as well as to lead adaptation policy towards the effects of climate change. "In national interests, protection of the population and critical infrastructure in crises, disasters, accidents, accidents and other risks and threats were vitally involved, and in other important interests were also ensuring energy security, protecting public health and protecting the environment. Deputy Minister Nikolay Kanchev as a member of the Working Group and a representative of the Ministry of Environment and Water added that in the draft of the updated Strategy the environmental policy is mainly covered in the sector. In this regard, the security policy is expressed by joining global or regional initiatives and environmental projects aimed at improving the quality of the environment and protecting environmental security. As an essential aspect, the prevention, management and resolution of the consequences of industrial accidents by emission loss, cross-border air pollution, water and the coastline, including in the event of threats to terrorist activities using weapons of mass destruction, has been identified. He also stressed that Bulgaria continues to work to reduce the negative impact of anthropogenic factors, as well as to lead adaptation policy towards the effects of climate change. The protection and enhancement of the sustainability of the population remains a priority, as an essential element is the management of water resources through an interinstitutional planning, monitoring and evaluation mechanism. Last but not least, the Strategy refers to the preservation of the environment and natural resources as one of the national interests. The attitude of the updated Strategy took the MPs: Dzhevdet Chakarov, who proposed in relation to some environmental aspects, the Advisory Council and the adequacy of the current realities, to postpone the consideration of the Strategy with a view to supplementing it; Erjan Ebatin, who added that, for example, in the part concerning cyberattacks, a deeper analysis should be carried out, as well as the need to expand the updated Strategy; Atanas Kostadinov, who announced that the main challenges for national security in the field of the environment are well marked, but quite widely mentioned. In addition to the consequences of the challenges of climate change and adaptation to this, it must also be seen by environmental components and factors what poses a possible threat to national security. He also announced that a specific text on flood risk management plans will be proposed in the context of river basin management plans. Mr. Georgi Krastev responded and commented on the speeches made, pointing out that the Strategy is a macro-reporting basis for the development of sectoral security strategies. On cybersecurity issues since 2016, there is a sufficiently detailed strategy in which proposals can be found. Mr. Krastev pointed out that the sector strategies, which are operational documents, are easier refined than the national strategy adopted by the National Assembly. The President of the Commission Ivelina Vasileva pointed out that he perceived the speech of the MP Dzhevdet Chakarov as a proposal in order to postpone the consideration of the Strategy and therefore put it to the vote. The proposal was not accepted by 6 votes...................................................................................................... The President of the Commission, Ivelina Vasileva, thanked for the speeches, asked for other opinions and questions, then put to the vote the updated Strategy, where the Committee on Environment and Waters with 12 votes................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u86	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. Following is a report from the Committee on Health. He will be introduced to us by Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u87	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I give your attention: ♪ I can't believe on draft Decision adopting an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December This Decision shall At its regular meeting held on 25 January 2018, the Health Committee examined and discussed a draft decision adopting an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. The meeting was attended by the Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The updated National Security Strategy was presented by Mr. Georgi Krastev. He noted that the Strategy was adopted in accordance with the Management Programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017-2021, Objective 44, Measure 160. Opinion on the need to update the Strategy was also expressed by the National Security Advisory Council at a meeting held on 30 May. This Decision shall Both in the 2011 Strategy and in this project, importers adhere to the broad understanding of the concept of state security in all aspects of the activities of citizens, society and the state, not only in foreign policy, defence and the activities of the security services. Mr. Krastev pointed out that healthcare is not specific in a separate section, but is included in the sector of social security policy. Social security is considered in a very broad context and includes both demographic policy, education and health care. In the field of health, efforts are aimed at carrying out adequate changes in the system in order to stop negative trends so as to achieve higher stability and sustainable development of the National Health System and fully meet the health needs of the population. The National Security Strategy is a framework document from which sectoral security strategies and sectoral policies should proceed in the interest of national security. In order to be more precise about the contents of the updated Strategy, Dr. Daniela Daritkova made a proposal for editing of the text in the part relating to health policy, in particular on page 22, etc. 105 of the draft updated National Security Strategy. She informed the MPs that the proposal was agreed with the Ministry of Health. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results: the draft decision to adopt the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017, together with the following version of this article, was adopted on the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results:. 105 of Section IV "Secretary Security Policy" (IV.3) "Secretary Security Policy" (Secretary Security Policy) "Secretary Security Policy" (Secretary Security Policy) "Secretary Security Policy" (Secretary Security Policy) "Secretary Security Policy" (Secretary Security Policy) "Secretary Security Policy" (Secretary Security Policy) "Secretary Security Policy" (Secretary Security Policy) "Secretary Security Policy" (Secretary Security Policy) seventeen hundred and fifty-five. In the field of health, efforts are aimed at improving the health of the nation, as a strategic goal dominant in sector reforms, combined with the organizational, personnel and financial stabilisation of the health system. Particular attention shall be paid to activities under: - increasing the life expectancy in the Republic of Bulgaria, reducing the level of disability and mortality among the population; guaranteeing the health security of citizens by ensuring sustainable development of health activities in medical and health institutions, emergency medical care, transfusion haematology, transplantation, medical expertise and state health control; - consistent and targeted state policy for the implementation of highly effective surveillance of infectious diseases, ensuring high immunisation coverage, including among vulnerable population groups, according to the national immunisation calendar and timely response to situations threatening public health; - improvement of the country's system of protection against imports of infections with high epidemic potential in accordance with the International Health Rules and effective border health control through material and personnel provision of activities at local and national level; - improve the readiness of the national health care system to respond and provide timely, qualitative and continuous medical assistance, including the conduct of anti-epidemic events, to ensure the life and health of the population in the use of biological agents, chemical, radioactive and nuclear materials for terrorist purposes; - ensuring a strategic framework and financial mechanisms for planning and implementing the policy for mental health.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u88	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Next is the Report of the Committee on Education and Science. You're welcome to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u89	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Minister! ♪ I can't believe on the examination of an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with attached Draft Decision No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. At its regular meeting on 31 January 2018, the Education and Science Committee discussed an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached Draft Decision No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. The meeting was attended by Mr. Georgi Krastev, Secretary of the Security Council at the Council of Ministers and Ms. Denitsa Sacheva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science, who presented the draft decision. In the section of the Strategy the development of education, education, science and applied activities in the spirit of national and European values is marked as a vital interest of Bulgaria. In the analysis section are taken into account the negative trends in the educational and qualification level of significant groups of Bulgarian society, which is also a prerequisite for insufficient integration of some communities belonging to ethnic minorities. The part on the guidelines of action states that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, Higher Schools and other state educational and scientific structures, as well as civil society organisations, conduct research and activities to accumulate knowledge and experience and to develop innovative solutions related to security and defence. The Security Council of the Council of Ministers together with representatives of the academic community shall develop and propose to the Council of Ministers a National Programme for Research and Innovation in the field of security and defence. The discussion included MPs Tanya Petrova, Anelia Klisarova and Milena Damyanova. They drew attention to the provisions in the document that the modernisation of basic, secondary and higher education by strictly applying national standards is a fundamental prerequisite for achieving a high quality of social security. The development of higher education, research and research, as well as the preservation of cultural and historical heritage, are the basis for taking strategic action in the planning and implementation of sectoral and common national policies for the development of personality and society. The issue of the need for an action plan with an in-depth financial justification was raised to enable the envisaged implementation of the Strategy by 2025. It was highlighted in particular the Security Council's decision when it was updated that the problems for the development of education, education, science and applied activities must be passed from the section of other important interests. The MPs expressed their satisfaction that their remark was taken into account because such a proposal was made by the Committee on Education and Science in the 43rd National Assembly. After the discussion, with a result of 10 votes "for" and 8 votes "abstained," the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the draft decision for adoption of the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u90	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Next is a Report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Mrs. Sawateva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u91	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached Draft Decision, No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 25 January 2018, the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria was reviewed with the attached Draft Decision No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. The meeting was attended by Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister of Culture, Lyubomila Stanislavova, Secretary-General of the Council of Ministers, Vesela Sterev, Secretary-General of the Ministry of Culture, of the Holding Agency The updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria was presented by Mr. Rumen Dimitrov. The preparation of the draft update of the National Security Strategy is in implementation of the envisaged measure of the management programme of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017-2021. The opinion and proposals of the Advisory Council for National Security on current risks and threats to the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria and the necessary measures to strengthen it from 20 May 2017 are noted and the need to update the National Security Strategy in accordance with the changed security environment. The National Security Strategy is a fundamental document for uniform formation, planning, implementation, coordination and control of the national security policy carried out by state institutions in cooperation with citizens and their organisations. The time horizon of the updated Strategy is up to 2025. Compared to the national security strategy adopted in 2011, new policies such as cybersecurity, transport security, crisis management, youth and sport and protection of national archives are included as part of the cultural heritage. Mr. Mihail Gruev noted that the documents from the National Archive Fund as carriers of historical memory are part of the national cultural and historical heritage, which motivates the inclusion in the Strategy of a new policy for the protection of national archives. During the discussion regarding the updated National Security Strategy, the MPs Alexander Simov, Toma Bikov, Krasimir Bogdanov and Ivan Chenchev expressed their speech. In addition to expressing support for it, attention was paid to the insufficient place and role that is devoted to culture. Following a vote, MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media with 15 votes for the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. The latest report is from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. You are welcome to present this report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u93	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe On updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with attached draft Decision No 702-00-48 submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 18 January 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed an updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached Draft Decision No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017. Mr. Georgi Krastev, adviser to the political cabinet of the Prime Minister of Bulgaria and Secretary of the Security Council of the Council of Ministers, who presented the updated Strategy on behalf of the importer, took part in the Commission meeting. The preparation of the Project for updating the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria is part of the Management Program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021. The proposed amendments and additions to the Strategy are in response to increasing the level of uncertainty in international relations and reflect at Union level changes in NATO's strategic concept, as well as the European Union's views on the security environment and policies to be taken at Union level. The draft shall take into account the proposals received after the public discussions have been held. The proposal reflects the comments made during the discussion during the discussion of the Report on the State of National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2016. The updated texts create the conditions for addressing the serious problems related to resource security and the completion of national security services, the conceptual basis for effective countering new risks and threats is provided. It is defined as a top priority and the implementation of the military civilian goals adopted by Bulgaria for NATO capabilities, for collective defence and initiative, and for building the defence capabilities of the European Union. The crisis management texts are new, which determine the development of institutions, society and citizens' capabilities for prevention, response and overcoming the consequences. The transition of the development of education, education, science and applied activities from the section of the other important interests is proposed to the section of the life-threatening national security interests. The participation of local self-government authorities and local administration according to their competence in implementing the national security policy has been reported. The opportunities for the inclusion of the non-governmental sector, including business operators, are also expanded in the implementation of the national security policy objectives. During the discussion by the speakers, the inclusion in the updated text of the Strategy was taken into account as vital interests of national interests, overcoming negative demographic processes and significant disproportions in the development of the regions, as well as developing regional cooperation in the Danube region and strengthening the country's active role in this process. Sectoral security policies include the balanced economic development of the regions in the country, supported by the promotion of investment activities and the realization of projects under programmes financed by the state budget and EU funds. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes for
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Colleagues, I will now give Mr. Tsvetanov the floor to read the proposals supported by the three committees, as we have only read them in brief. Now Mr. Tsvetanov will read them with the corresponding specifics. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u95	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will read out absolutely all the proposals that have been voted on and adopted at the joint meeting of the Internal Security and Public Order Commission, the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act and the Defence Commission. Proposal by the Members of the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria with attached Draft Decision, No 702-00-48, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017, supported by the Standing Committees, according to their reports with editorial texts to be put to the vote. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Jankov and a group of MPs to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, which supports the proposal in principle and proposes the following version of this. 3: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. 3. The strategy outlines a broader understanding of national security by bringing the security of the citizen, public and economic aspects to the forefront, without underestimating the dimensions of defence, foreign policy, intelligence, public order security and the protection of legality. The final product and the true meaning of the concept of "national security" is the guarantee of human security and the protection of the freedom and dignity of the citizen, as well as the protection of sovereignty, territorial integrity and the protection of the state border. Changes in regional security in the Black Sea region, the Middle East and North Africa in recent years and emerging trends have identified the need for flexible, balanced and synergistic use of policies and instruments of national power to protect national interests. There is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support it in principle and offer the following version of this article. 14: I'm sorry, I'm The implementation of the National Security Strategy will create conditions for the protection of national interests in order to achieve national objectives and priorities. There is a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications that support the proposal of the Council. 18: ............................................... 18 the word "unity" is replaced by "Bulgarian." There is a proposal from the National Representative Philip Popov to the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which supports in principle the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic place in this section. 21 and proposes the following version of the item. 21: I'm sorry, I'm The development of integration processes in the European Union and transatlantic cooperation are important for regulating major international issues. The initiatives and actions of the European Union and NATO remain defining the strengthening of international security. The agreement between them on interaction in the field of defence represents a new significant element of joint efforts to maintain peace and stability in Europe and the world. The membership of the Republic of Bulgaria in the European Union and NATO and the fact that none of the neighbouring countries defines it as a potential opponent are major factors for its external security and will continue to hinder the emergence of a direct military threat to its sovereignty and territorial integrity in the long term. The Republic of Bulgaria is an active participant in the development processes of both organizations and in overcoming the challenges facing them, as well as to defend its own interests. Regardless of Britain's exit from the European Union, it remains an ally for Bulgaria, with which we must continue the development of relations in the field of security. There is a proposal from the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of Members of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, the Defence Committee and the Security Services Control Commission, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act, which support the proposal under this article. 29: ............................................... 29 the words "radical Islam" shall be replaced by "radical ideologies based on Islam"; There is a proposal from the MPs Kolyo Milev, Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support it in principle and offer the following version of this article. 30: I'm sorry, I'm Migration becomes a long-term deepening problem at risk, if not managed, to become a strategic threat to democratic societies and economies in transit and host countries. The situation in the Middle East, Central Asia and Africa generates risks for increasing migration pressure, which negatively affects the security of the countries in Europe, including the Republic of Bulgaria. Note: The proposed version refers only to paragraph 1 of the importer's text for point 2. 30, as in the rest the text does not change. There is a proposal from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov to the Committee on Foreign Policy, which supports the proposal and proposes the following addition. 37: ............................................... 37 after the last sentence, to add the acceleration of the mechanisms of interaction between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Western Balkan countries based on their specific position, as candidates for NATO and the European Union, will contribute to their faster real integration into the two organizations. There is a proposal from the National Representative Kolyo Milev to the Defence Committee and the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support them in general and offer the following version of this article. 41: I'm sorry, I'm Bulgarian citizens, as well as Bulgarian communities outside the country and Bulgarian national minorities, in countries where they have legally recognised status, albeit for materially different reasons, need greater and adequate attention from our state. It should find an expression in informational and cultural exchange, in particular to those born and raised outside the country's territory, as well as to persons of Bulgarian origin, regardless of whether they acquire Bulgarian citizenship by birth. Note: The proposed version refers only to paragraph 1 of the importer's text for paragraph 1. 41, as in the rest, the text does not change. There is a proposal from the MP Dimitar Lazarov, made by art. 80, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to the Committee for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which supports it for this purpose. 51: ............................................... 51, the word "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'. There is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support it in principle and offer the following version of this article. 52: I'm sorry, I'm Corruption and, in particular, high-level corruption remains one of the main problems of modern Bulgarian society. Its dissemination is a result of the opaque change of ownership, inadequate regulation of public and economic relations, ineffective control and omissions in the administration of justice. Corruption threatens the existence and compliance with social, legal and moral norms, enhances the potential of organised crime, undermines the authority's authority, weakens their functioning and compromises the reforms carried out. Corruption opportunities create shortcomings in the management of the state and municipalities, expressing themselves consciously or due to incompetence in increasing and complicating permits and licensing regimes, unnecessary control functions of the administrative authorities, lack of the necessary transparency and consistency in the award of public procurement and spending of public funds. There is a proposal from the National Representative Krasimir Jankov and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, which supports him under this heading. 61. ............................................... 61 at the beginning of the text is placed a new sentence: There is a proposal from the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support it in principle and offer the following version of this article. 77: I'm sorry, I'm The affirmation of the rule of law, the principles of good governance and the fight against corruption are crucial for national security policy in general and for individual sectors. It will be implemented through: - continuous improvement of the regulatory framework limiting the possibilities for the implementation of corruption practices and of maladministration and reducing the administrative burden by removing unnecessary authorisation and control procedures; - increasing efficiency, transparency and accountability in the functioning of institutions; - clear allocation of the duties and powers of the political and administrative levels to the executive bodies; - increasing the competence of the public administration and its effectiveness; - develop employees' ability to identify and counteract corruption attempts; - the implementation of existing and new forms of control against political and administrative levels, both by public organisations and individual citizens; - development of the interaction, partnership and participation of citizens and their organizations in the implementation of anti-corruption policies and measures by the executive authority. There is a proposal from MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support it in principle and offer the following version of this article. 87: I'm sorry, I'm Banking and financial supervision authorities shall protect the interests of the depositors, investors, insured and insured persons and shall focus their efforts on maintaining the stability of the financial system and financial markets and on trusting them. Completion of reforms and measures taken as a result of recommendations following an asset quality review and a stress test of banks, insurers and insurers and the review of pension fund assets. Implementation of regulations in these sectors in accordance with EU requirements. Proposal by the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support it in principle and offer the following version of this article. 93: I'm sorry, I'm The balanced economic development of the regions of the Republic of Bulgaria is supported by the promotion of investment activity, the relief of administrative procedures in the investment process and the realization of projects under programmes financed by the state budget and EU funds. Proposal by the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support it in principle and offer the following version of this article. 103: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, A prerequisite for achieving a high quality of social security is the modernisation of basic, secondary and higher education through strict application of national standards in both pre-school and school education systems and in higher schools. The main focus is on equal access to quality education and inclusion of every child and student, limiting illiteracy, preventing early dropout of children from the education system, achieving a level of functional literacy that will provide opportunities for personal and social development, attracting young people to the teaching profession, developing the material base and new technologies and ensuring a link between business needs and education, building common human values and reducing aggression. The development of higher education, research and research, as well as the preservation of cultural and historical heritage, are the basis for taking strategic action in the planning and implementation of sectoral and common national policies for the development of the personality and society. Proposal of the Committee on Health for the Editor-in-Office of the European Union 105: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In the field of health, efforts are aimed at improving the health of the nation as a strategic goal dominant in sector reforms, combined with the organizational, personnel and financial stabilisation of the health system. Particular attention shall be paid to activities under: - increase the life expectancy in the Republic of Bulgaria, decrease the level of disability and mortality among the population; - ensuring the health security of citizens by ensuring the sustainable development of health activities in medical and health institutions, emergency medical care, transfusion haematology, transplantation, medical expertise and state health control; - consistent and targeted state policy for the implementation of highly effective surveillance of infectious diseases, ensuring high immunisation coverage, including among vulnerable population groups, according to the National Immunolysis Calendar and timely response to situations threatening public health; - improvement of the country's system of protection against imports of infections with high epidemic potential in accordance with the International Health Rules and effective border health control through material and personnel provision of activities at local and national level; - improve the readiness of the national health care system to respond and provide timely, qualitative and continuous medical assistance, including the conduct of anti-epidemic events, to ensure the life and health of the population in the use of biological agents, chemical, radioactive and nuclear materials for terrorist purposes; - ensuring a strategic framework and financial mechanisms for planning and implementing the policy for mental health. Proposal by the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support and offer the following version of this article. 111: ............................................... 111 after the word "energy" to be placed comma and to add....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Proposal by the National Representative Slavcho Velkov to the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support it in principle and offer the following version of this article. 119: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The Republic of Bulgaria implements the commitments under Directive 2008/114/EC of 8.12.2008 on the establishment and designation of European critical infrastructures and the assessment of the need to improve their protection, which includes monitoring the access to strategic sites and examining the opportunities for joint activities between the public and private sectors based on mutual interest and expertise of partners to ensure the protection of public interests and needs through an effective allocation of funds, risks and benefits in this process. Proposal of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order and the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support it in general under point (c). 51, which is reflected in its systematic place in c. 125 and offer the following version of the article. 125: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, In the area of justice, the Republic of Bulgaria is fully and intensively joined to the system of principles, objectives, policies, norms and practices of the European Union. The Republic of Bulgaria is part of the European legal area and applies a set of norms... EU law, which is significantly different from the international and domestic law of the Member States. This process has a significant impact on the rule of law and law in our country. The termination of the implementation of the Cooperation and Verification Mechanism is an important objective of strategic importance, the achievement of which is possible in the short term. Proposal by the National Representative Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which support it in principle and offer the following version of this article. 128: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Countering corruption is developed through substantial modernisation of legislation and effective functioning of a single anti-corruption body. Countering corruption is achieved by applying complex measures aimed at developing the interinstitutional approach; strengthening the management system; optimizing regulations and administrative requirements with a view to preventing corruption practices; regulatory provision; administrative capacity; integrated management of the information resource; interaction and international cooperation and operational management. Increasing efficiency in the work of local authorities and local self-government is achieved by involving citizens in the process of realising the goals of local self-government. The institutions and NGOs are working to form a sustainable attitude and active civic position in society to reduce tolerance for corruption by using opportunities and educational policies and information campaigns. Proposal from the National Representative Krassimir Jankov and a group of MPs to the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, which the Commission supports under this heading. 139: ............................................... 139 in a sentence second after the word "politicians" a colon is placed and the words "to increase the capacity for security at the border" are placed first after it. Proposal by the National Representative Kolyo Milev to the Defence Committee, which supports the proposal under point (b) of Article 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 156: ............................................... 156 words to build and replace with the words to develop and improve. Proposal by the National Representative Konstantin Popov to the Defence Committee, which supports the proposal on the issue. 162: ............................................... 162th sentence second to Proposal by the National Representative Slavcho Velkov to the Defence Committee and the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications, which supports it in principle, which is reflected in its systematic place in this section. 171 and offer the following version of the article. 171: I'm sorry, I'm sorry, The Council of Ministers shall form the policy and implement the general management of crisis management activities. The national crisis management policy shall be based on: - preparation of the country for defence and defence mobilization preparation of the population; - effective preparation of society for crisis action; - use of a modern and sustainable early warning system, including the National Disclosure System; - effective inter-agency cooperation and coordination; - continuous monitoring of potential and emerging crises; - continuous improvement and harmonisation of the regulatory base based on the comprehensive approach with the use of all available resources of the country at all levels of Union, national, regional and local; - building a flexible mechanism for the accelerated deployment of military capabilities and expertise to respond to a crisis, in cases of lack of a civilian alternative; - maintaining sufficient resources to ensure the autonomy of society during crises; - interaction and cooperation in crisis management at regional and international level; - the existence of a communication strategy in the form of coordinated, timely, clear, transparent and widely available information on what is happening, on actions taken, expected results and subsequent developments; - promote the use of insurance as an instrument to provide additional funding for faster and more effective recovery after crises, disasters and accidents, which will ensure the necessary adaptability of the national security system.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Colleagues, these were the proposals that were supported by all the MPs in all the committees. Do you have any comments on the proposals that have been made? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Now, on what Mr. Tsvetanov read, do you have any suggestions? If not, I'll put it to the vote. I don't see... [[Heckling]] The ones you took? Okay. Here you are, Mr. Iankov, because then we will start the debates in principle about the new ones. Now by those who read Mr. Tsvetanov and who are supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u97	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, representatives of the services! The proposed proposals regarding the proposed update of the National Security Strategy have been adopted some of the proposals I made after the first discussion, namely, a gap in those who have drawn up the Strategy, a omission by the Council of Ministers, that national security is first of all the protection of national sovereignty, the most essential part of which is the protection of territorial integrity with the protection of state borders. With understanding from all the Commissioners, this text has been added to the Strategy. The proposal was adopted in the National Security Strategy as a commitment of the executive to be a review of Dublin regulation. This is a development in the attitude of the executive and of the government of Boyko Borisov in terms of commitments which so far have been requested by the Bulgarian citizens, were requested by the opposition, but there has not been adequate treatment so far. Of course, regardless of all the processes, the concept of the national security strategy is defined by the nature of the document and it is a complex of measures to guarantee national borders and our ownership. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u98	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. - What's the line? There are no lines. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u99	Madam President, honourable Members! The way in which we are now being proposed to proceed both the debates and the vote on the updated National Security Strategy, to a large extent restrict the possibility of those MPs who have made their proposals and, accordingly, they have not been accepted on the committees. What do I mean? You are now proposing that the debates be held on the accepted part, and they are adopted, then it becomes pointless to vote the unacceptable ones. In practice, they will not find, even if we manage to convince colleagues, how will they get into the structure, the National Security Strategy scheme? This concerns us because I think that if I have not been able to convince a committee of my proposals that have not been accepted, because there are those who have been accepted, ultimately colleagues in this House can be persuaded. I have my arguments in that direction. I'm a little worried about now that we're going to adopt in practice some texts that will fit in, and those that aren't adopted, in some cases, concern texts that will now be adopted. How's the change gonna happen?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u100	I will now distract your concerns, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u101	Really distract my doubts because, for example, on one point, a foreign proposal has been accepted, to another colleague, and I also have a proposal on this point. If this fellow Member's proposal is now accepted, what happens to my proposal after what has not been adopted by the Commission and we will discuss it and vote afterwards? We're going to count the number of votes who's collected more, how to do it? That's the question. Legally explain to us how it will happen, of course, so that we can join the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u102	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Tsvetanov's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u103	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues, let me remind you that there was also a representative from the BSP at the Conference of Presidents today. We have reached a full political consensus that these proposals, which have been adopted by the joint meetings of the three committees - internal, defence and control over the services, put them to the vote, and by the way Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, President of the Bulgarian Parliament, we have respected what we agreed on at the Conference of Presidents. Once we have adopted the Anblock texts that have been adopted, then the MPs who have not accepted the proposals and have not found the corresponding support of these joint meetings.. there may be others, may make proposals in this House to be put to the vote. We are doing what we believe may give the maximum political consensus on the adoption of the updated Strategy. If you take this approach, Mr. Ivanov, I think that's right. It is nice that the President or representative of the BSP who is present at the Conference of Presidents, what the leaders agreed then, in fact, gives the opportunity in this House to be maximum consensus when adopting such important strategic projects.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u104	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Third procedure please, Mr. Iankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u105	My procedure is in connection with an editorial amendment, and it is in point. The United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland is to be replaced by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. Then, in the sentence of the European Union for Bulgaria, to be replaced by the European Union for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u106	Thank you. Any other speeches? I won't. Colleagues, I am putting to the vote the editorial amendment to this. 21, where the United Kingdom of Great Britain is replaced by the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, and after the word "Bulgaria" is replaced by "the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland." 135 MPs voted: 135, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Let us now accept all accepted proposals and then we will continue with the speeches, Mr. Tsonev. I put to the vote the proposals presented to us by Mr. Tsvetanov just now for the relevant points, the editorials in them and the proposals in general, including the editorial amendment that made Mr. Yankov in c. 21. They voted 139 MPs: for 139 against and abstentions there is no. The proposals have been accepted. I'm opening the debate. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u107	Thank you, Madam President. I'd like to make four proposals. The first of these is: in Section I "Introduction", e.g. 4 the words "historical traditions and ideals of the Bulgarian people" to be replaced by the national interests. The second proposal is in point. 37th sentence last, the words "Save the prospect of accession" shall be replaced by the acceleration of accession. The third proposal is in point. 99 sentence number one, after the words "their organizations" to set a comma and add "and to remove the reasons that lead to the violation of these traditional relations." The last of these proposals I make is in point. 145, after the last sentence to create a new sentence in this point with the following content:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u108	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Any lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u109	When the DPS makes a proposal and talks, we should always be careful because they have something in mind. At first glance lightly, elegantly and when you are dragged so handy on the couloirs or in the hall kindly, keep in mind. Because we shouldn't be fooled here, the idea is the original replacement of concepts, the replacement of values, the replacement of meaning of things has been going on for nearly 30 years. It has never ceased to be a drop by drop, a little less, and for this proposal to change the concepts associated with national values, just a few moments ago, national traditions also have a light bulb tail. In other words, interests can be different. They are changing, as in history today, we may have some interest in communicating with the state of Turkey on the occasion of, let us say, the exiles, or rather the aliens. And with Erdogan some people will face a very big mistake, of course in Varna. There are always some flirting happening today, tomorrow, the day after tomorrow. Unlike us, Greece has a proper policy, it never makes such mistakes. I won't talk now for what reasons, what her old tradition is. What's the idea? From here, to put aside national values, national traditions, national doctrine and the National Security Strategy to comply with conjunctural, temporary interests today for tomorrow. We shouldn't let that happen, of course. It's about things that last. Such a doctrine, such a strategy, must be based on strong traditions, principles, healthy Christian morality, because this is also included in national values, in traditions, and the other is by the cunning. It's changing. You can play with it any way you want, so let's stay in this kind of Strategy the way it is proposed, and this proposal of the DPS is not accepted. I can be a lot more specific. If I keep calling things by their real names, I'll probably be charged again with hate speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u110	Your cue time is up, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u111	But that's enough. I urge you, colleagues, not to give in to this suggestion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u112	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u113	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I think you should have explained previously that this text and the texts you are doing now as an editorial amendment were agreed during the parliamentary break only half an hour ago. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We also had the opportunity to talk to our experts who worked on finalising the final texts on the Strategy. So in this direction, Mr. Shopov, we have absolutely no concerns or anything that we could break Christian values with, or that we should stray from the only possible path... this is our European and our membership in the European Union and NATO. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u114	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Third line? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u115	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tsonev, please explain whether you have agreed with the ruling majority each time you make a proposal so that we can have all the information about the dialogue between the different parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Mr. Tsonev, will there be a duplicate? No, there won't be. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u117	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Today we have the opportunity here to consider a Project for updating the National Security Strategy. You know that an interdepartmental group in the execution of a minister's order has developed a Project, which has already been discussed on committees, has been presented for public discussion and before the MPs. The review of the project shows that the update includes dropping nine points and creating 34 new ones, correcting 14% of the texts. Compared to the old and updated version, the change is about 35%. We can see that two new sectoral policies have been introduced "Cybersecurity" and "Cybersecurity" crisis management. The first is with only one point and is related to protecting critical information infrastructure. The second is represented by eight points, which are related to the establishment of a national crisis management system. The main corrections to the texts are made in the first three sections of the Project. They are the result of the changes in matter that they reflect and aim to update and update the Strategy. However, many of them are multilateral and complex explanations that not only do not update the texts but make them virtually incomprehensible and logically inconsistent, which made it very difficult for the opposition to make specific proposals for amendments to these texts. This is also our opinion on a large part of the Strategy texts that we should be abstentioned. The analysis of the updated texts shows that the changes in their majority are chaotic, randomly selected directions and policies. This shows that no impact assessment of the Strategy has been made in sectoral policies and, if made, it is inaccurate or formal, which makes it largely impossible to deploy the strategy's capabilities and eliminate threats to its implementation. The shortcomings and deficiencies identified by experts during the six-year period in force of this strategy have not been taken into account. With regard to the proposals that I have made with colleagues. The update of the strategy is a good reason to improve its structure as well. The current structure does not correspond to the content of the Strategy and can present it as the most important conceptual model in the field of national security. We therefore considered it necessary for the so-called Introduction to be replaced by the introduction to present the basic framework of the Strategy. Unfortunately, this thing was not accepted, and the word "Introduction" is at least more stylistic and better sustained than "Introduction." The introduction sounds like a schoolwork. Unfortunately, this thing wasn't accepted. Another proposal that we have made in this regard. 19 where the strategic interests are described at the end of point 4 to be added by not creating and allowing conditions for conflicts with it. This concerns the Black Sea region. Honourable Members, we are asking very seriously and I think that there is hardly anyone in this House who does not agree that the Black Sea region should stay away from any conflict. Here are held, you know, exercises, we have a good partnership with NATO member states that are in the Black Sea region and we do not see reasons, on the contrary, part of Bulgaria's National Strategy should be that this region should be away from all conflicts and Bulgaria should be the country that cares most to prevent such conflicts. We did not understand why and for what reason this was rejected and why majority Members did not accept this text. We've proposed to her. 13 to obtain the species: The Strategy for National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria is a fundamental document for strategic planning defining national interests and priority for national security conducted by the state institutions in cooperation with the citizens and their organizations. We believe that this text most adequately corresponds to the meaning of a Strategy because it is a strategy, it is not any other document, and that is why we have written that this is a fundamental document for strategic planning. This approach was also not taken by the majority for what reasons. I am very keen and colleagues must understand the meaning of such proposals. There's no way a strategy couldn't be a strategic document. In the text that will be proposed to us today for adoption, this thing is missing. In terms of t. 39 The same work. We propose that the Black Sea region should not be militarised and that conditions for conflicts in it should not be created and allowed. Again, you're not accepting this thing. I understand that in our National Security Strategy, we allow the Black Sea region to militarise and allow conflicts in it, rejecting such a text, which leads us to think, honourable Members, that the doubts we have had in the past, that military formations will be made here to increase the possibility of conflicts in the Black Sea region are quite legitimate and this is not without reason. Another proposal that we have made, but it is not accepted and we do not understand why it is for a new item to appear. 53: The termination of EU policy will inevitably affect national security in economic terms. Honourable Members, you know that the multiannual financial framework of the European Union is currently under discussion. One of the main topics that is being discussed there is whether this cohesion policy should exist at all. Just to remind you that last week there were representatives of the Bundestag, German MPs from the Committee on European Affairs, who very seriously expressed their concern on this topic and their reservations about this cohesion policy. You know that Britain is leaving the European Union. There is no approach to today how to replace the contribution they will make from there. Therefore, it is very seriously questioned whether this cohesion policy will continue. You know that cohesion policy defines not a small part of the country's gross domestic product, so-called EU funds. Don't you agree that if they stop at some point, it will affect the stability of the country? Why is this text off? We must work in this direction, the Bulgarian representatives must work in this direction. Why is this text not supported by you? Aren't the priorities of the GERB government to fight in this direction to recover and continue European funds, and at the same time you do not bet it even as a priority in this direction?! Fellow Members, this strategy has very few weaknesses. I told you at the beginning: I will give this opportunity to my colleagues now, and I will really ask all that I have commented on right now, and those proposals that you will hear in a moment, to consider them, because indeed both the Black Sea region and European cohesion policy, and everything else that has been mentioned in this speech, are extremely important and should not be left in the background. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u118	Mr. Ivanov, I hope you'll give me the proposals so we can put them to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u119	They're in the Report as unsupported proposals. If you want, I'll give them to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u120	Just give me the unsupported. You'll give them to me in writing so I can put them to the vote. Replies to Mr. Ivanov's statement? Here's a line, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u121	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ivanov! Just to say that on Friday, the finance ministers were here, and it was also Commissioner Oettinger, and they all said that cohesion policy should stay, and there are currently opportunities, perhaps with an increase in contributions, in relation to Britain's exit from the European Union, so in this direction I do not think that we should make any clarification, specify, and should remain the text of the Strategy, as is an importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Second line? Here you are, Admiral Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u123	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Ivanov, I took a cue from your words that we did not accept the proposal to militarize the Black Sea. I could not understand either at the Commission meeting and now, i.e. demilitarize the Black Sea. Close the Bulgarian fleet? [[Reply.]] What should we do? No, I was there, and then I couldn't figure out how to shut down the fleet, or with this decision of ours to tell Russia to release Crimea and remove all the warships you brought in, submarines, planes and so on? This isn't serious. We have plans. Our fleet is neither so threatening nor militarizes the Black Sea, and any country that has a Black Sea coast has the right to defend its maritime sovereignty with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u124	Thank you, dear Admiral Manushev. Is there a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u125	Mr. Tsvetanov, Mr. Manushev! Mr. Tsvetanov, you know better than I do from this tribune that I do not speculate on this subject. Britain's exit will inevitably affect the financial policy of the European Union. The discussions on the multiannual financial framework have not even started yet, Mr. Tsvetanov. And the issue of EU cohesion policy is extremely controversial to date, extremely controversial! [[Reply of MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] Nothing has been accepted, Mr. Tsvetanov. Nothing's accepted, and there's no telling what's going to be accepted. Even if this remains, I very much hope that it will remain, it will probably be in a reduced version and it is not normal for us not to take into account such a fact, which will inevitably affect the Bulgarian economy and it is normal for us to put that into our Strategy. I don't see any reason for him to drop out. Mr. Manushev, I can't understand you either. Your Prime Minister says he wants to have sailboats and water wheels in the Black Sea, and you're opposing it. You remember a discussion when you were debating whether there should be some military formation that supposedly protects the region, and in fact something was needed to be done that would actually lift the tension. This is one of the reasons we propose, and in the words that we have laid down.................................................................................................. I'm worried that you want the word "avoiding military conflicts" in the region to fall. And I don't understand that from your side why is that so, why the stubbornness? Obviously, we may be preparing for something much more serious. If so, say it from this tribune here so everyone knows. Here are the services, let them say. Why is this stubbornness not to get into the strategy, I don't understand? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u126	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u127	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal to extend the plenary until the debate is over, including the vote on this item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u128	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I'm voting on Mr. Kirilov's procedure. They voted 135 MPs: 101, against 25, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Mr. Yankov to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u129	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister of the Interior! Bulgaria faces a number of threats to its national security. If we rely on powerful alliances such as NATO and the European Union as a member for global and regional threats, national threats are fundamental to the continuing inconsistent state policy, confrontation and division in society, lack of trust in institutions, deficit of leadership. Her readiness is in our hands. The problems of poverty, migration, demographic crisis, education, health and strengthening statehood directly reflect on the security of the state and citizens, on the sustainability of the nation. In relation to these problems crystallises the need for effective work of the Ministry of Interior. I do not understand why it is rejected by the Commission and is not proposed to be supported in this regard. 135 to specify who conducts an active prevention policy against the critical factors that form the criminogenic environment? This can only be the Ministry of Interior and it can be personally responsible for the control of conventional crime, which requires daily countermeasure, excluding tolerance to perpetrators. With the proposed texts you confirm your desire to abdicate the state in the face of the Ministry of Interior from the performance of the main tasks, replaced by the Act on the Ministry of Interior, and not only the amendments to the Law on Private Security Activities, which are scandalous and are already in the Constitutional Court by the President and the Prosecutor General. I foresee, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, that you are following an algorithm, including with the texts in this National Security Strategy, that you will change other laws, and perhaps change the Local Self-Management Act and that it will be possible for municipalities to have a public order control unit, a unit responsible for protecting municipal property and responsible for the organisation of road traffic, and this is parallel service for tasks that have been replaced by the Ministry of Interior. I urge the Interior Minister to take into account the proposed texts: is he agreed not to be personally responsible for preventing, crossing conventional crime and then as the first unit in the justice system? I'm making the procedural proposal in art. 135 to be added to the internal affairs department. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 112 you refused to include the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene" and new capacities. Provided that there is a political consensus, the Ministry of Energy can do in its report what can be used and the benefits of the already launched procedure for the construction of the nuclear power plant "Belene." I'm proposing to you. 112 to be brought to the NPP of Belene and the Union of the NPP. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u130	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. We continue with the following speeches. Here you go, Mr. Vitanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, from the sharpness of the debate, it seems to me that the updated Strategy has become obsolete even before it is adopted. I will also say as a parliamentary group, and on my own behalf that I have some reservations that could hardly be overcome with any cosmetic changes. First of all, it seems to me that the rule is broken if 25% of the texts are new to have a new strategy and not to update this. Because at the moment, even before the amendment procedure in the National Assembly, over 35% are the new texts in the Strategy, i.e. I do not think that we should consider an updated Strategy, but should be new. Secondly, what I am impressed with is the absence of a slot, which means there is no analysis of the strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats to the implementation of this strategy. Thirdly, in the Security Environment Section, the security indicators are too chaotic and have no logical consistency, i.e. global, continental and regional. Many threats do not actually have a direct impact on our country. Fourth, it should be pointed out that Bulgaria, as a responsible member of NATO and the European Union, reports amongst the threats and those who do not actually have direct effect on its own security, but threatens the security of its allies. Fifthly, the national security system includes all the authorities implementing the security policy, and I think it is necessary to describe those authorities that provide the institutional framework. Sixth, which was the subject of a discussion during the meeting of the committees, is that nowhere in the Strategy is the deepening social inequality considered a threat to social security, which is part of the national security system, is, respectively, intended to overcome it. Even in the pyramid of mass destruction, security is placed after meeting basic needs, and here in general inequality and social security are ignored. Seventhly, in the Section of the Internal Security Environment, there should be added amongst the threats of poor education and poverty. They're totally absent. Eighth, the overall conclusions are also missing the severe consequences of the deepening demographic crisis, which has a direct impact on the security environment and on the national security system. Nine, a serious flaw is that the project does not specify the national defence targets to be achieved in the next period. These are only some of the points at which we have reservations and which will make me refrain from supporting the Strategy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u132	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. Any lines to Mr. Vitanov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Velkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u133	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! First of all, I would like to pay my respects to our guests, the heads of state intelligence agencies, military intelligence agencies and the State Agency, National Security, representatives of the Ministry of Defence and DXI. Welcome, colleagues! And Dr. Krastev, of course, the importer of the updated Strategy. Colleagues, I would like to say that there may also be admiration for the group working on the update after the joint committee meeting. I cannot help but admit that some current proposals have found the place in the proposed option. At the same time, I cannot fail to mention what we consider to be faults of the document and make a remark to Mr. Vitanov that he quoted me as saying that this document was obsolete before it was adopted. I'm doing an audit for you. Dear colleagues, we are talking about the National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. Usually the strategic horizons are far, far ahead in time, for example by 2030. The security environment is so dynamic, so rapidly changing that it constantly requires us to update such basic documents. Therefore, my suggestions were precisely on this basis to leave an update window, namely the dynamics of the security environment. If you remember, we talked at the meetings that it might not be a month and will raise the interests of global players in the Middle East. Now that's what happened. We have a new outbreak of tensions in southern Syria, where they are already involved, both from the United States and Russia and Jordan. We have a change in the situation in Southeast Turkey and along the border with Syria in connection with Afrin's operations, and Mambic is now being looked at. So let us be up-to-date, fellow Members, in terms of the dynamics of the security environment, to keep it in constant account if we need to update it, but only it. We do not know after one month whether, following negotiations between the North Korean leader and the President of the United States, this danger will not pass. That could happen, too. And to my colleague Admiral Manushev, I will tell him with a little joke, of course, that the idea of demilitarizing the Black Sea aquatory was the Prime Minister's, not ours. I would like to say that I suggested that a single definition of the category of national security be given as a policy for the protection of national interests. See how precise and clear the security policies can find a place for environmental security, ethno-religious security, along with demographic security. Ladies and gentlemen, in just ten years' time, we will face problems of an ethno-religious and demographic nature, one of which will arise from others, as dense ethnicities, dense masses, within two or three million, will be a fact after the next, say, ten, fifteen, twenty years, and we cannot put that out in the Strategy and communication security, which was also a proposal, including, of course, in relation to cybersecurity. 166, and diplomatic security, which you're not talking about anywhere. This is General Daskalov and Mr. Dragomir Dimitrov. Let them tell you for what reasons our diplomatic representation in Kabul, in Afghanistan, is not functioning because of this. There were also proposals for defence policy, but I would like to say that I myself would refrain from voting on the document as a founding one if it was not brought into line with the requirements of the security environment and the security challenges of the Republic of Bulgaria. We can't keep tossing around paperwork. Since 1999, we have a concept of security, we have a few years ago a doctrine of national security, none of which works. So let's be precise and clear. We need a new strategy! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u134	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Any lines to Mr. Velkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u135	Time, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u136	Increase the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u137	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Guests! I will refer a little more specifically to our proposals and to our fellow Members who have just spoken. Indeed, in point 39, we insist that, honourable Member Manushev, the Black Sea region should not be militarised, that conditions for conflicts in it should not be created and allowed. Given that the armed forces of the countries in the Black Sea region are sufficient at the moment or if each country develops its armed forces, it is not allowed in the future, as in the Mediterranean, to boil and boil and create conditions for conflicts that will prevent the entire Black Sea region. Moreover, given that the straits in a small conflict will even be closed very easily in the Black Sea, as a small water pool, Bulgaria will necessarily have problems. In point 40, I am concerned that we specify the problem of Ukraine and the illegal annexation of Crimea and propose that this sentence be dropped, even the next, but in particular: the crisis in Ukraine and the illegal annexation of the Crimean Peninsula lead to a lasting violation of the geostrategic and military balance in the Black Sea region. The contradictions are also growing in the field of economics and culture. " - Even if this is the case in the foreground, it is not the case in the future. I am counting on that we should not have a double standard in some of our foreign policy relations, and this sentence I am in favour of dropping out. In addition, we have editorial and other amendments in art. 96 by further proposing the introduction of transport police to ensure security in transport. Also in art. 103, where more young people are asked to be involved in a teaching profession, we added young people prepared and not necessarily teachers, but can be attracted by other non-pedagogical specialties from other universities and universities in Bulgaria. Please, Madam President, these two proposals, in addition to points 39 and 40, be put to the vote. Thank you if you'll accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u138	Your proposals are actually "39 and 40," Mr. Ivanov noted them. I'll read them as Mr. Ivanov's suggestions. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u139	Madam President, honourable Members! I always thought there were three major macroeconomic problems in front of us Bulgarians. The first of which I will not talk about the other two now is that 140 years ago we celebrated the anniversary of the end of Turkish slavery, the consequences of Turkish slavery in Bulgaria have not been overcome and this is obvious to all of us. These consequences consist of all sorts of things. At the moment, I cannot outline them all, but it is quite fresh that President Erdogan, in a modest statement from the stands, made absolutely unacceptable... [[Reply from DPS: "On the topic! "]] Yeah, on the subject, from the DPS, I'm answering you. That's what I'm talking about. That's the subject, and it's megatima. But only this statement by Erdogan, was it yesterday, I will not quote it, you all know it.. it were not strategic depths before this, even here Bulgarian cultutors, even dressed with the calls of academics, organized a disgraceful celebration, opening or literary reading of the book of the former Prime Minister of Turkey Davutoglu...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u140	Mr. Shopov, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u141	Yeah, that's the theme. The topic is this, Mrs. President, we cannot talk about national security without there being a point in it, there is a moment, there is a reflection and mention that the main threat to Bulgaria for 140 years continues to be the former Metropolitan Metropolitan, to be our former enslaving state of Turkey, then the Ottoman Empire.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u142	Mr. Shopov, we are talking about the Strategy of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u143	This is the Strategy and nothing else can replace this fact, because national security cannot be taken without taking measures against the thousands once numbered 3,000 people in Bulgaria residents of MIT (Turkish Special Services). We cannot have national security after reaching the Bulgarian elections. It is clear what I mean by that. We cannot talk about national security after what Turkish Dinette does (Turkish Ministry of Muslim Religion), paying here hundreds, perhaps thousands of people to maintain a vernacular standard. We cannot talk about national security, Madam President and colleagues, since we have unresolved problems for billions of levs related to Turkey's outstanding obligations under the Eastern Thrace refugee treaties. Guys, have we forgotten this topic? Here we voted on a decision for governments to work for it. What governments have done since three national meetings so far on this matter, nobody says anything. In front of our eyes are the problems of closer or more distant countries than us. On the issue of the state of Turkey, Mr. Velkov, I listened to you a little while ago, you were absolutely right about some geostrategic dangers and problems, but this is the most immediate one. Because we Bulgarians are the last ones to catch the train 140 years ago, the Syrians are the last ones to catch it and other peoples in the Turkish Empire have not caught it yet and have remained to lead their national liberation movements. So what happened in Afrin could have happened at our borders, could have happened now. What is happening to the Republic of Cyprus is an equal member of the European Union, with a third of its territory occupied, where Turkey's troops stand...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u144	Mr. Shopov, let's get back to the topic of National Security Strategy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u145	Yeah, that's the National Security Strategy. I only mentioned certain aspects of national security relating to the state of Turkey. And I can't understand what these flirtings with Turkey are about, what we gain in order for these meetings to be carried out and this........................in a mother tongue, with a neighbouring country, a large and strong economic one, which has its magnificent aspirations, goals and plots its policy in Bulgaria through a Turkish nationalist party in the face of the DPS in Bulgaria...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u146	Mr. Shopov, I'm making a note. Please, no insulting qualifications!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u147	...and we're all just not telling him why? Because Turkey's in NATO, too? Well, Turkey is currently one of NATO's enemies and is working against NATO, if we speak in this regard and in this sense. These truths cannot be overlooked, and nothing is worth to me the doctrine of national security, and in fact the changes that we are making without taking into account this element. I just mentioned Greece. The Greeks know it and you know what the relations are.. formal diplomatic, but over the Mediterranean are flying airplanes that are constantly intercepted. Greek servicemen are currently being detained in Turkey's territory. Greece behaves like a state because it remembers its traditions and its historical past where they come from, what the problems are and what it is about. Therefore, Bulgaria's national security doctrine is nothing without being included in it, without being reflected, without being thoughtful and without taking into account this most fundamental and most important aspect of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u148	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I can't see. Statements? Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov, in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u149	Madam President, honourable Members! Madam President, I appeal to you, you have allowed the parliamentary platform to express opinions that absolutely do not correspond to the National Security Strategy at issue. There is talk about the speech of a president of a neighbouring state.. The Republic of Turkey, which is absolutely irrelevant to this document. Please, in this kind of speech, take the floor because you undermine the efforts of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria, you undermine the efforts of the entire Bulgarian government, Bulgaria, which, as President of the Council of the European Union, in whose strategy the Western Balkans have laid down precisely, in whose strategy the meeting is currently in place on 26 March in Bulgaria between the leaders of the European Union, the President of the European Commission, our Prime Minister and the President of the Republic of Turkey. When you allow nationalists to speak this way, these efforts will remain in vain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Ibryamov. As you noticed, I made a few remarks to Mr. Shopov, but I wouldn't know what to say next. I take note of your words. Thank you. Any other speeches? Do you have a procedure, Mr. Velkov? How many times are you gonna talk? You've spoken, you can't speak anymore. [[Noise and lines.]] What's the procedure? What procedure? The way you're running things?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u151	Thank you, Madam President. You're asking me how many times I'm gonna say it. If I can speak once, what do you ask me how many times?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u152	You can speak by the rules once.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u153	Thank you for letting me. Colleague, I would like to point out through the President, of course, that we are discussing a National Security Strategy, not a doctrine, as Mr Shopov stressed several times on this. However, Madam President, help me, I am an ignorant person, we have talked a lot for years about the so-called Western Balkans and the Western Balkan countries. Can you or anyone in this room tell me who are the countries of the Eastern Balkans? If you could answer me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u154	It's not on the subject, it's not on the way, so I'm taking your word away.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u155	No, the connection is with the real strategy I mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u156	Please take your seat. Thank you. Are there any other speeches? I won't, I can't see. I'm closing the debate. We shall begin voting on the proposals made by the Members of the National Assembly. We begin with Mr. Yordan Tsonev's proposals. The proposal is in t. 4th sentence third, the words "historical traditions and ideals of the Bulgarian people" to be replaced by the national interests. [[Noise and lines.]] We are voting on Mr. Tsonev's proposals. Vote 138 MPs: 113 against 7, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. The second proposal in t. The 37th sentence is the last sentence of the words "the preservation of the prospect of accession' to be replaced by "the acceleration of accession'. Please, voting mode. Vote 149 MPs: 125 against 3, abstention 21. The motion is accepted. Next up is the third proposal. It's in t. 99 sentence number one: after the words "their organizations" to place a comma and add a "and remove the reasons that lead to the violation of these traditional relations." Please, voting mode. Vote 151 MPs: 134 against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. And the latest proposal: in the sub-section of the External Security Policy. 145 to create a new last sentence with the following text:.... Bulgaria participates in the implementation of the common security and defence policy of the European Union through a Single European Security and Defence System within NATO........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ They voted 147 MPs: 130, none, abstention 17. The motion is accepted. Now we move on to Mr. Ivanov's proposals. The first proposal by the Member of the National Assembly and a group of Members of the National Assembly. I'll read them: Point 13 to obtain the species: The Strategy for National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria is a fundamental document for strategic planning defining national interests and priorities for national security conducted by state institutions in cooperation with citizens and their organizations. The working group does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. They voted 153 MPs: 63, against 30, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Krasimir Yankov. Mr. Ivanov, I'm going to ask you to make sure there's no confusion. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs: supposed to National interests. In point (a), point "1." ensuring rights, freedoms and security, and 2. preserving the sovereignty, the territorials shall exchange their seats as order. The working group does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. Vote 156 MPs: 47, Against 27, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u157	There is a proposal from the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs the title of the item. 19 to acquire the following type: "Strategic interests are:... In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 19 and at the end of point 4 to be added: by not creating and allowing conditions for conflicts therein. The working group does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. Vote 156 MPs: 50, against 27, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal from the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs in this section. 39 after the last sentence to be added: the Black Sea region not to be militarised and not to create and allow conditions for conflicts in it. The working group does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. Vote 156 MPs: 47, against 31, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal from the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs in point 40 sentence 2 to be dropped. The working group does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. They voted 149 MPs: 46, against 23, abstentioned 80. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal from the National Representative Kolyo Milev. 40 to get the following edit: I'm sorry, I'm The frozen and emerging conflicts in the post-Soviet space remain a constant source of tensions containing security risk potential, and the countries affected by them continue to be a field of conflict of various geopolitical interests. The lack of respect for the territorial integrity of independent countries, the conduct of information operations and the mass use of hybrid strategies, undermine trust and make it significantly difficult to return to dialogue and find lasting political solutions related to security on the European continent. The working group does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. They voted 154 MPs: 54, against 36, abstention 64. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal from the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs for a new item. 41: The escalated tensions following changes in the military political situation on the Korean Peninsula will inevitably have an impact on the European and global security environment in the medium term, which will inevitably have an impact on the national security of the Republic of Bulgaria. The working group does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. They voted 144 MPs: 45 against 28, abstention 71. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal from the MP Ivan Ivanov and a group of MPs after renumbering a new item. 53: The termination of EU policy will inevitably affect national security in economic terms. The working group does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. They voted 153 MPs: 46 against 30, abstention 77. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal from the MP Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs: IV. The following amendments and additions shall be made in Section 1U.H In Part Energy Security Policy, of which: 112 the words "new capacity" shall be replaced by "NPP" "Belene". The working group does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. Vote 154 MPs: 42, against 42, abstention 70. The offer is not accepted. There is a proposal from the MP Krasimir Yankov and a group of MPs: IV. The following amendments and additions shall be made in Section 1U.Z In Part of the Justice and Home Affairs Policy: of which: 135 in a sentence first after the word The working group does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. They voted 144 MPs: 38, Against 34, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. The last proposal is from the MP Slavcho Velkov in the Defence Policy. 163 to be translated into the concept of voluntary military training with a voluntary military service. The working group does not support the proposal. Please, voting mode. Vote 149 MPs: 44, against 51, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. We've run out of suggestions with this, fellow Members. I put the draft updated National Security Strategy to a full vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u158	I have a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u159	Here you are, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u160	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are in front of the vote on the updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria. I would like to thank everyone who has actively participated in the development of this updated strategy. Here I would particularly like to address the Security Council to the Council of Ministers, where you know that by legal provisions that we have voted in Parliament also allowed the presidential institution, with two representatives to participate in the Security Council, where they have taken active part in the adoption of the updated Strategy and, of course, then with the entire academic community, with the non-governmental sector that participated in the discussions that were held. I would also like to thank the Members of the National Assembly from all the parliamentary groups, who have given the opportunity to take the discussions and decisions taken by the relevant committees, to be able to adopt these proposals which have actually given the better optimization of the Strategy that we are about to adopt. I am convinced that with this commitment of the Bulgarian Parliament we will fulfill one of the points of the Advisory Council on National Security with the President, where you know that this was one of the recommendations and around which all the political forces united, participating in the Advisory Council with the President of the country. I thank all the MPs who will support today the updated Strategy, which is the product of a lot of work, to all who have done their best. I would also like to thank the Interior Minister, who, throughout today's debate, was here and the Ministry of Internal Affairs, as well as all the representatives of the services, were actively involved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Line one. Line, Mr. Ermenkov, stand by.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u162	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! Dear Mr. Tsvetanov, you obviously did not understand that with all the proposals from the MPs it is clearly demonstrated that the Security Council's capacity is nil. For the first time a precedent is taking place and the Conference of Presidents wonders what is the procedure for adopting the update of the National Security Strategy in order to be able to take into account and argue all the proposals and you thank whom?! The one who can't do his job. How do you see the effective work of this Security Council? The Secretary of the Council must resign after the first entry of a Strategy into the National Assembly and there is such a debate, and there is a disagreement there are more than 30 votes. You rejected a large part of the proposals that were very detailedly justified, and this makes the document unanimous?! I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u163	Second line? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u164	Mr. Tsvetanov, I guess it wasn't meant to be, and it's not included in the strategy that I'm going back there. A few days ago this fatally significant, extremely important for Erdogan's national security statement was made. You remember how he spoke, how Kardzhali and other cities are in his heart, something like that, some kind of rambling of their nationalist, Turkish, to an absolute dictator at the moment that criticizes the whole of Europe, including we have to do it. After this statement he made further that his homeland, his country, had shrunk only, imagine the poor, to 770 thousand. square kilometers. That is, a neighbouring, large, strong state has its territorial claims, has its imperial aspiration for territories that are Bulgarian. We have these facts to neglect them, to miss them in this strategy that we are adopting today, and to leave it just so that we can have some good relations with the so-called neighbours who are actually our original historical opponents, and to adopt a national strategy that is amputated by the most important that it should contain. I don't know, when we accept it today, shouldn't we have updated it in light of this statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u165	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Third line? I don't see a third line. Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u166	Dear Madam President, Mr. Iankov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Iankov, I simply cannot understand when we are looking for a political consensus on a topic related to national security, when we give each of the parliamentary groups the opportunity through their deputies to make the relevant proposals and we accept them, you reproach us for it and immediately transfer the blame to the Council of Ministers or to the Security Council. Isn't that what parliamentaryism is all about? Looking for consensus on important topics! The texts which enabled them to be adopted have been adopted. These texts, which did not find the relevant parliamentary support, were rejected. These are democracy and parliamentaryism. Please, let us treat everyone who has worked with respect and every single MP who is actively involved in this debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Mr. Ermenkov, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u168	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! To you, Madam President, perhaps the last seven minutes would not have happened if you had followed the Rules of the National Assembly and after you had stopped the speeches, once again after a case when the speeches were terminated, when we talked about the referendum, you gave the floor to Mr. Tsvetanov, now you have given him the floor of Mr. Tsvetanov for something in a way that is unacceptable according to our Rules. After the speeches have been terminated, the speeches have been suspended unless we write in the Rules that we are stopping the speeches and that is true for everyone except Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Noise and excitement.]] Please very much, if you want us to get him inside, put him in the Rules so we know and we don't take a procedure. Otherwise, we lost a few seven minutes, which could have passed as a thank-you procedure, and they wouldn't have given you any lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u169	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Here you are, Mr. Karadayi, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u170	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! This document is a result of a common agreement reached at the National Security Advisory Council with the President of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 on the need to update the National Security Strategy in 2011, in response to a change in the security environment, especially after 2014. The serious international changes, the increased level of uncertainty in international relations, a change in NATO's strategic concept, the state of the security environment in the European Union, the situation in the Balkans and in the country, were undoubtedly the necessary argument for updating the Strategy and this is already a fact. Numerous and diverse are the challenges to our national security and successful dealing with them depend largely on the extent to which they are presented objectively, how adequate, objective and thorough the assessments of the dynamics of the main risks and threats to security... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u171	Colleagues, I beg you to be quiet in this room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u172	...such as identifying the threats and risks goes along with identifying the causes. Process dynamics require adequate response and action and, in this context, the updated National Security Strategy presented is an attempt to trace the planning and implementation processes of the achievement of national security targets with a time range up to 2025. It is definitely not difficult to assume that, together with the adoption of the updated Strategy, it should be started as a whole. The global economic forum in Davos in a report on global risks, as well as the security forum in Munich in February this year also points to risks, leading most likely: escalation of tensions in cyberspace, retreating from democracy under pressure from populists and others, which will inevitably impose new update and development, and this is normal. Following the position of the Parliamentary Group on Rights and Freedoms and a qualified strategic document on national security, with the clear awareness that national security by legal definition requires guaranteeing the democratic functioning of the institutions and fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, and in a political context, the subject of national security is a common field of both authorities and opposition. As well as the institutions in the country, we actively participated in the discussion of the updated National Security Strategy submitted by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly, including our concrete proposals on the content. Thank you for your support for those who have been accepted. Our view of certain requirements for the content of the strategic document was dictated by the need to cover key risk processes, to identify sustainable policies to protect national interests and to achieve national priorities. In the changed international situation with the state of public relations within the country require the use of a broader framework for identifying, assessing and countering risks and threats. National security policy is a decision-making process, setting goals, setting conditions for their implementation and forecasting of resources, with the utmost importance of sectoral policies in order to ensure maximum security of the country. In this sense and context were our proposals, and although there is more to be desired, we from the DPS support the updated National Security Strategy. On the agenda we will keep the topic of updating the strategic document in any change in the middle of security, as well as new threats. We will demand the involvement of all national responsible parties with security issues in the country, the region and Europe. We will continue to insist on countering division, opposition, hatred, including the active manifestation of this hatred. In the context of the European Presidency on the issue of NATO's collective defence system and the Common Security and Defence Policy of the European Union and the development of the country's own defence potential, there must be a responsible position. With regard to the Common European Defence and Security Policy, our position is clear and consistent, but we will want a common position to be drawn up and presented to our Union countries. All subjects related to national security are extremely important. They are vital for all Bulgarian citizens, for the country, for the state and its future. Decisions require the full responsibility of the competent authorities and institutions, all politicians in front of the future of society and of the country. In the name of our common future and prosperity, let us take advantage of the inexhaustible instruments of democracy. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u173	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. The Minister of the Interior asked for a statement. Here you go, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u174	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the House, Honorable Advisor to the Prime Minister, Head of the Service, Deputy Ministers were both here! I take the floor as an importer. Maybe I wouldn't have taken the floor, you're at the end of the vote, but after those strong lines of the opposition, I'd like to remind you of some things. Let me remind you that I submitted this after there was an Advisory Council on National Security, in the program of the GERB Party there was a meeting, we decided and we brought it in. In December it was submitted to the National Assembly, today the National Security Strategy is being debated and will probably be adopted. Thank you, everyone. I listened carefully to the reports of the committees, I think two thirds of them are about the National Security Strategy. I would like to thank everyone who has helped, apart from the working group, these non-governmental organisations, all in the chain who have helped improve the texts, including the opposition, which has tried to improve the texts today. But I do not accept the requests for lack of capacity, he reached out to the Council of Ministers. As they say about the honour of the Pagon, I would like to remind you of some facts. If someone has no capacity on such security documents, national security, above all, it is not GERB. In the first government, we reached out and changed a law that was not changed, that is, not the law, but the wartime stock plan. Twenty-eight years, no one had reached out to him. We came and changed it. We didn't have that capacity yet, now we do. Remember what we did in 2011 we introduced this Strategy. Following that, in 2016 the Commission decided to initiate the formal investigation procedure in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Remember the four laws. In the first government, we introduced the law on services. We made it possible for them to be accepted. That is, the whole package of legal documents in security and defence are with the authorship of GERB. What capacity, honourable Members of the opposition, are you talking about?! I do not accept such remarks, once again I say about the honour of the Pagon.I am not only talking about GERB, I am talking about those perhaps hundreds of experts working in ministries, in offices that are the capacity of the state. And this protects us from those dangers that there was also a National Security Advisory Council for which we put it in the Programme and for which the whole of Europe is shaking about this uncertainty of the environment. Three things: in Syria you know what happened; ISIL "terrorist" in Europe; the annexation of Crimea and we have come to change. And I'm done with that. You say: it is not ready and should almost be changed. Of course, any such strategic document. The synthesis of so much science inside can be changed. If something changes tomorrow, from the southern country or from any other country in the direction of Bulgaria, of course, we will immediately submit and, if necessary, I as Minister of Interior, changes in the National Security Strategy. Now thank you all, because today you will probably vote by majority, I hope, as you supported in the committees, a very good document that gives us, traces our way two, three, five years ahead, and we can draw what we need from it to change the other legislation. So thank you in advance to all those who will vote for............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u175	Thank you, dear Minister. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Stoinev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u176	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, of course, I couldn't help but think of your satisfaction with this strategy and that we all, you see, have to unite. Yes, of course, when it comes to national security, of course we need to be convinced when there are, whether external threats or internal threats, the opposition has always given a hand and is ready together with the government to really keep the peace of the Bulgarian citizens. But in the end, we cannot be idle when a document is tabled, which is made by an interdepartmental working group in the execution of a Prime Minister's order, from which the update consists in dropping nine points and creating three or four new points and correcting 10% of the texts. After all, this is not an update, colleagues. For a reason today, we were even wondering how to adopt this strategy. And I don't understand your satisfaction with this strategy, Mr. Minister, because the problems are very and very obvious. The text on corruption is the same text and the measures rewritten since 2011. And you want this text to be put to the vote and adopted is how it will happen?! Of course not. Of course there are problems in this security. Tell me, then, is the Bulgarian population calm to our external threats?! That we, colleagues, don't have one aircraft to fly, but at the same time we must agree and remain calm?! [[Laughter and excitement.]] That we have a line that could fall at any moment, and a fence, but we have to sit here, stay calm and be together?! No, we can't be together and it's the opposition's job to show the mistakes! Mr. Minister, information leaked the other day. It's about a broadcast. I'm not going to quote it. It shows the corruption that's in the revenue system. NRA says all information leaked out of the internal affairs system. This, ladies and gentlemen, means security for Bulgarian citizens. So I'm calling everyone... [[People from GERB are talking and hugging.]] Of course, you hug each other, support each other, whatever you want, but thanks to the opposition, this strategy still has some kind of strategy! [[Heckling]] I mean, there's some kind of a thing. And you had to listen to all of our proposals to really be a working strategy. You really can't sit here and tell us how many laws you've passed. Is it that people feel safer?! Go to the villages. You promised every village to have a police officer. What's going on? You're putting in companies to protect them. I mean, they're doing bastions on some mayors, like the one from September. Here, that's the difference between you and us, and that we can't accept. We want professionalism in these structures. These structures really work in peace. These structures should be well funded to take care of the security of Bulgarian citizens, not to be given money, because the will of the Prime Minister was such that they would be given another 100 million leva!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u177	Mr. Stoynev, on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u178	That's the difference it should be! And that is why I am telling you: the strategy is not good, but for what you are proposing, thanks to us, there is still some kind! [[(Noise, lines, calls from GERB:]] That's right, guys! There's some kind. Yet, when you learn to offer and really use the capacity of truly knowledgeable and capable people, and not to fire them, you will really get a document here that we will not wonder how to accept. 'Cause today we were wondering what the procedure would be to adopt this strategy. This must be clear to all Bulgarian citizens! The BSP for Bulgaria will refrain from adopting the Strategy. Thank you. [[Loud noise, lines, applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u179	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? Mr. Lazarov, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u180	Madam President, honourable Members! I can't think of the year 2005, 2009, but it didn't have a strategy! But it didn't have a strategy, it was being tried by the big specialists, by the biggest specialists, you got them out of this country... Why, my colleagues, wasn't there a strategy in 2005, in 2009? And before that, there was no strategy! That's the fact! Where were the major specialists then? They were doing other things, but there was no strategy, so let's make it clear to everyone! We are talking about a Strategy adopted during the management of GERB, and we are now making an update, honourable Members. But please don't say anything unprepared. It's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, it's okay, [[Applause from GERB.]] Now, that doesn't look like shit!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u181	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Is there gonna be a second line? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u182	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoynev, I object to all procedural manipulations and suggestions you have tried to make from this tribune because of the following. This procedure was created to enable you to participate fully and effectively; to have a so-called second series in which to make additional proposals; so that all committees, all Members of the National Assembly, can state their views accordingly. There was also, as has been seen, an explicit vote, although this Strategy, this document should only be voted on at one reading. A procedural opportunity has been made, a parliamentary opportunity to consider any unreserved proposal. We strongly object to the division that your proposals have made this strategy worthwhile. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u183	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Is there gonna be a third line? I don't see a third line. For the back, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u184	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, the very fact that we were wondering how to adopt the Strategy showed that you were even ashamed of this strategy. [[Noise and lines.]] Let's tell each other the truth and at least be honest. The strategy was very, very problematic. I'd say inadequate for modern conditions. True, there was an attempt at change, but that's it. And here the question to you now, and you shouldn't be offended by the fact that we seem to have a capacity problem, but in the end it's on your team. The second is Mr. Lazarov, we did not have a national strategy in 2005, 2009, but we had security! [[Loud noise, calls from GERB, laughter.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-14.u185	I'm speechless! [[Radio.]] Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. [[Laughter, excitement.]] Colleagues, we're already going to vote, I hope. Everyone has spoken, we have calmed down and we continue with the vote. I put to the vote in full the draft updated National Security Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria, No 702-00-48, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 11 December 2017, together with its amendments and additions. Vote 160 MPs: 117 against 6, abstention 37. The motion is accepted. [[Applause.]] Colleagues, there's another vote. I am now voting on the draft decision to adopt the Strategy in the version proposed by the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order, which was presented by Mr. Tsvetanov at the beginning of the point. We are voting on a Decision adopting an updated Strategy for National Security of the Republic of Bulgaria. Please vote. Vote 157 MPs: 118, against 4, abstention 35. The strategy has been adopted. Colleagues, I am closing today's plenary session. Tomorrow's regular plenary session, at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
