ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u1	[[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, we've got a job we can start. We continue with the accepted programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCUREMENTS. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Public Procurement Act No 854-01-8, submitted by Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev on 19 February 2018, adopted on the first vote on 28 February 2018. Mrs. Alexandrova, please come in for a presentation of the texts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u2	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Report on the Draft Law on Supplement to the Public Procurement Act No 854-01-8, submitted by Danail Kirilov and Christian Mitev on 19 February 2018, adopted on the first vote on 28 February 2018. The Act for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u3	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 117 MPs: 78 against 34, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u4	It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. On the text of the importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Philip Popov and a group of MPs: It's the only one that's out of the question. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the importer's text for a single paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u5	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Statements? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u6	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Between first and second readings, we have made a proposal to remove the so proposed amendment. To this day, we do not understand, in fact we understand, but we do not understand why the ruling majority makes this proposal when the Special Prosecutor's Office initiates pre-trial proceedings? Obviously not, in order to make the procedure faster and more effective, because now the current texts of the Public Procurement Act have the opportunity to pass through this rapid procedure in force. You are doing this so that there is no transparency so that you can not compare the offers for supporting the fence so that the deals that were made on the construction of the fence can be covered and continued. That's why you're doing this. That is why our proposal is that this text be rejected. He's not needed in the Public Procurement Act. It only needs you, as I said, and I repeat, and at first reading our opinion was the same to cover up and continue the construction deals and now the maintenance of the fence. Because only half of the fence's maintenance costs about half a million a year, and that's without the force majeure. The force majeure cannot be predicted. With a force major to build the broken integrity of the fence, how much can the price reach? One, two, three, five million? No one can foresee this, and you have put it in this amendment so that without a public contract, without clarity, without transparency, the trades are made with regard to the maintenance of this fence. That is why we propose that this text be rejected. Please support our proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u7	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! The Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support the text of the importer. We also believe that this text has no place in the Public Procurement Act. Absolutely unnecessary text that reinforces a feeling in society that unclean deeds have continued around this fence since the very beginning of the construction of this fence so far, and continue these actions of the ruling majority. That is why we will not support this text, absolutely unnecessary! It sets a precedent for such texts in the future, so we will vote against.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u9	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The theme of the so-called fence at the border is one of the most exploited of this tribune. A very small part of the people who talk about this subject actually went to the right place and have an idea of what is happening there and what is the real picture. I can say that I am one of the MPs who stepped on the field and saw closely what the facility looks like. Strandzha is a special mountain with a very heavily crossed terrain, and what is happening there is difficult to predict. I was in October, and I was in January, and I saw what was going on in the derettas. It is very difficult to predict in advance what happens in the partition facility after a flood. In my opinion, it is quite illogical to say that a procedure under the Public Procurement Act is necessary when it comes to damage caused by natural disasters. Should we wait for the pretrial proceedings initiated by the Special Prosecutor's Office to be repaired? That, to put it mildly, is illogical, because it means that for the next three, four, five or six months, the breakthroughs that happened on the fence remain that way. Yes, I was in the same ravine that a fellow leftist showed where the fence was actually taken, because this is a watercourse and because there are huge amounts of water being poured out. No one can say that's not gonna happen tomorrow. This has happened elsewhere. They're just not so famous and popular. In my opinion, the main problem currently stands is the creation of a good organisation for the maintenance of the facility. The facility is stable in most places. There is no way from a ten-metre breakthrough to conclude the quality and reliability of the facility across the border. I think this text is very reasonable, very rational, and if measures are taken quickly to maintain the fence, and this will happen with direct award, the effect will be much stronger. You're not gonna do anything, because pretrial proceedings are going down anyway. Let's not absolutate this fact either. Pre-trial proceedings mean merely an active inspection and yet, I remind you, there are no defendants involved or specific charges. I'm monitoring pretrial proceedings. I've requested information in order to access public information, and I'm counting on it to be given to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. - What's the line? Mr. Hamid, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Sawateva, do not deceive the MPs that this text is necessary because there have been natural disasters and the fence has been taken away. And at the present moment, there is a text in the Public Procurement Act which regulates how it works under force majeure, which is certainly the circumstance of natural disasters. There is a text in force that regulates this particular procedure. The text proposed does not concern force majeure, natural disasters, floods and so on. This text simply regulates a scam, as is the deal with sewerage. To remind you of whose party functionaries made an agreement with the prosecution, to remind you of whose hotels are accommodated military and so on, but this is a matter of another subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u13	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Sawateva, frankly, I am shocked by your speech. First of all, because of the fact that you claim the fence's integrity, there's no such thing. On the contrary, it's like Swiss cheese, and anyone who wants to go there will see it. The second thing that shocks me is the fact that you're following, almost as a monitoring prosecutor, pre-trial proceedings. You know very well that everything that's connected to pretrial proceedings is an investigative secret. Colleagues here, at the very least, have to conclude who and how they are trying to influence pre-trial proceedings, the conclusions we can draw. You know very clearly, and it is written in the Law that, in order for pre-trial proceedings to take place, there is sufficient evidence of a crime committed and the law is an excuse to be formed. This means that the D.A.'s office has begun to act in relation to a crime that has been committed. You are trying to convince us today that the adoption of this law was almost beneficial to pre-trial proceedings. On the contrary, this amendment, Mrs. Sawateva, will get us into an overwhelm of this crime, because the co-worker is right to make outrage there. This is an outrage we want to cover with the next outrage. Unfortunately, it's the living truth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u15	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, it is true that the issue of the fence is one of the most exploited and politically. For us, from the United Patriarchs, the fence is a kind of child. She is a child who was born very difficult, for which we managed to convince BSP to be started during the reign of Oresharski. We maintained the topic before GERB for months, years to finish it. But the engine, the inspiration for the idea and the execution of the fence, was us from the Ataka and the other parties that make up at the moment the United Patriarchs and NFSB and the IMRO. For us, the fence is not a question of benefiting political benefits, it is a matter of benefit to the state, and everything that contributes to its easy maintenance and exploitation is welcome. These texts, which are adopted in this regard, are pragmatic, work, and that is our point of view. There's no question about it. On this point, I am very condescending to my colleagues from the BSP. For them, the issue is an object and a source of opposition and nothing else. They'd make and screen movies, all sorts of things they wouldn't say. Colleagues of the BSP, be softer! You and I have one goal to protect the Bulgarian borders [[the President signals that time has run out]] And there's no point in overexposeting it. For the DPS, however, things are quite different. For them, this is a problem. The fence separates our country, our territory, from their favorite Turkey and this is why they are so sharp and do not want to accept this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u17	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Mrs. Sawateva, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u18	First of all, what Mr Hamid said: since it is now regulated to make repairs under force majeure, then what is it that worries you that repairs will be made? In other words, it makes no sense that speeding up the procedure will change the situation and obscure circumstances that currently exist and the prosecution will not be able to carry out its verification. I don't think repairing a place where the fence is compromised will change the factual situation so much that the investigating authority will not be able to do its job. No problem will be made one inspection of the site before and after repair. Impositions of corruption can always be done, but from suggestion to evidence there is a big difference. I, as a journalist, know that everything must be proved. At the words of my esteemed Mr. Ivanov: How many times have you been there? Did you get at least 10 meters on the fence? Do you have any idea of the terrain? In my opinion, it is of great importance that a Member of the National Assembly or whoever is speaking has a direct impression of the question he is referring to. I have not once said it and now I will say it: there are places along the border where there is no fence, but they are guarded by a living force. And the place that was shown in one of the reports was shown in part only illustrated a breakthrough in the fence, but did not show the stand of the Border Police, which was 20 meters away. This, in my opinion, is an illustration of an irrational view of the circumstances. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If you've all noticed, it's snowing heavily outside. After this snow, fellow Members, I expect another collapse, and perhaps this fence will disappear for good performance, as will the snow disappear after it. Dear colleagues, you are all familiar with the Public Procurement Act. You know, when a contractor works on an object, there's a guarantee deadline. Usually these warranty times for construction are about 5 years, if memory serves, right? At the same time you are trying to spend a text with which in practice these warranty deadlines do not work, not to be able to do an objective check what these companies have done and not spend any extra lev because they have already given their glue to someone. Because this law, I said it to you last time, is the law of the gold hole, because today we want to make it the gold hole, and we want to have more money to cover up an outrageous theft. When the snow goes, the fence will probably go, too. Today we want to give certain individuals, certain gentlemen, the opportunity to start spending government money again, given that more than 250 million have already been spent there. lv. Colleagues, what did you not understand from the whole thing that the prosecution is currently conducting checks that there are pre-trial proceedings? Obviously, evidence of a crime has been identified, and we are currently trying to cover up this crime. Do not turn parliament into an accomplice to a large-scale theft, because we MPs do not want to be accomplices to this thing. Our job is to pass laws that benefit Bulgarian citizens, not anything else. We do not want to damage the budget, on the contrary, there is a law in force. How many times do we have to tell you this? In force majeure, yes, it's called... Here's a little detail from the Council of Ministers, because one of the reasons you pass this law today is to wash away the responsibility from the Council of Ministers, to transfer back to someone else to be responsible for this thing, because it's much easier when it's the ministers, the Prime Minister... We know who they're assigning, and today we're transferring it to someone else. And start again a large-scale spending. That's the truth. Let's stop this thing! Let the D.A. complete this investigation and say if anyone's guilty, who's guilty, what they stole, if they didn't steal. We've all seen the pictures. There's not one, there's not two. You see, they are constantly catching refugees who have entered the country at an exit from the country. That means they broke in from somewhere, means this fence is not good. I read the Ministry of Interior's inquiries. They are eloquent. They were caught inside or at the exit from the side, not on the fence, it didn't even stop them. She didn't stop them because concrete, fences were stolen, here and there from a two-rower she became one-rowed. They go by stairs, they go by clothes, whatever they want. When you summon, is anyone watching? Organize to go to a place to see this fence. You're just asking. Set it up! Here, you are the ruling party, take the opposition. But you're afraid because you know what we'll find there. We'll find a wreck. I can tell how the money was stolen. It's the truth! Have some sense and don't pass this law today! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u21	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! So many nonsenses from the opposition I hadn't heard in a while. Obviously, this topic is your favorite exercise, colleagues from BSP and DPS. In fact, I can't understand the relationship between the Bill and the pre-trial proceedings in the Special Prosecutor's Office. One has nothing to do with the other. The special prosecutor's office shall rule on pre-trial proceedings relating to the construction of the fence. When it gives a ruling and when we see the prosecutor's opinion on whether to file an indictment or to terminate pre-trial proceedings, then we will find out which one of these is correct with regard to the construction inspection. But this has nothing to do with the bill under consideration, with the proposed change. The other untruth we heard from this tribune was that this procedure, which is being proposed, was not necessary because there was another. There is no other procedure, there is a regulation, but it was clearly stated, both by the Ministry of Interior and by the three regional governors in the territory of the areas on which the fence is situated, that in fact this procedure would take between 3 and 6 months to be able to rule on any particular case in which we have any violation of this partition facility. Next, the accusations that there would be no competition and there would hardly be an opportunity to choose companies implementing these repairs are also untenable, as one of the district managers said that he is currently working out such options if the Bill is adopted, making competitive procedures and inviting contractors, comparing their offers and the price they will offer. Moreover, the arguments that some abuses could be brought about, that there was almost no responsibility to be held. On the contrary, all three regional governors said they assumed full responsibility for the procedures they would carry out. Like any other state authority, they are subject to control. With regard to the Council of Ministers: The Council of Ministers is also responsible as he has chosen and appointed them. There was practically talk of a gold hole here. There is only a golden hole in the arguments against the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u23	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Line, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mitev, do not deceive the MPs that there was some regulation. There is a text in the Law right now. I will read it to you, let all colleagues see it. It's a matter of art. 79, p. 4: When an urgent award of the contract is necessary due to exceptional circumstances and it is not possible to comply with the time limits, including those made available to open, justify the existence of urgency, must not be attributed to the contracting entity. Here is a working text that says that when there are exceptional circumstances and it is necessary to react quickly, there is a valid legal text. Don't talk about regulations. This is a text from the Public Procurement Act. Why do we need to duplicate a second text like that? Because you are not concerned with urgent circumstances, and in any case the application of the Public Procurement Act is excluded? While here the Public Procurement Act regulates exactly the cases you are referring to, urgent cases, urgent circumstances. That's the difference.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u25	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Another line? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Mitev, the interest of BSP is clear. You said that BSP is particularly interested in this fence. The interest of BSP is the money of Bulgarian citizens who will once again go into a pocket [[noise and lines "Eee!" by GERB and OP]] Because this thing in a movie is gonna turn into a show. You're turning this thing into a show today, it's the truth! When it comes to stealing, but in particular large sizes, for stealing from the pocket of the Bulgarian citizen, we cannot sit idle, Mr. Mitev! Because this thing's purpose is as soon as we accept and after the snow melts, because after it there will be nothing, this fence will fall, on the run to some companies to pick up and cover up the lack of construction materials not included in the construction and the prosecution can't carry out its inspection. That's it! So that they can immediately be called on the phone and not comply with the current law. That's the truth, there's nothing to lie about! And how will you explain it to the Bulgarian citizens? We explain it precisely and clearly. How will you stand before your constituents to explain why more and more money is being poured into something that has already paid over 250 million?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u27	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Lazarov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Mitev, because it was about holes, sinking funds, I couldn't understand why we wouldn't happen to be discussing the holes in Tsankov Stone, where some billions went down? And perhaps the colleagues look around and see the Water Mirror of Kardzhali there for 90 million. lv.? Is this about these holes or an amendment to the Public Procurement Act? If it's about these holes, I'll repeat the Water Mirror in Kardzhali, somewhere around 90 million, then let this topic be a debate, but at another time! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u29	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Third line? I won't. You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Regarding the lines of Mr. Ivanov and Mr. Hamid and the line made by colleague Lazarov. Colleague Ivanov, that you have such a distorted idea that everyone works your way with scams and with the theft of state funds, this does not apply to everyone. Do not carry your way of thinking, your mode of action, and what you do and have proved it more than once, we have heard examples from the parliamentary tribune, there is no need to list others. Indeed, both Tsankov Stone and the famous Water Mirror are good examples of ineffective spending of state funds and gold holes, as you have expressed yourself, in which the money is sinking. This is not the case with the partition facility. Yes, Mr. Hamid, you're right in that this amendment aims not only at pressing, absolutely all cases. But this is in view of the maximum protection of national security and the maximum rapid response to something that we were confident about, again I say, from the three regional governors who are there and daily taking the necessary care so that no additional state resources are granted in order to send a living force from the forces of the police, from the forces of the gendarmerie, who at any given time of such a breakthrough in the facility must guard our state border with the Republic of Turkey. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Any other speeches? Here you go. Procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It's not a procedure to end the debate, it's a procedure for admission. I request a procedure for the admission of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Krasimir Tzipov. Because if we are going to continue this debate, we want to clarify how the construction of the first 30 km of this fence was carried out during the Oresharski period. What were the costs, who were the suppliers? Someone's also asking about the guarantees....are there guarantees for these 30 kilometers? Was it one-lined at the time of the Oreshar fence or a two-row fence? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Therefore, the Prosecutor's Office, Ms. Nino, can rule on any issue on which it considers that there are prerequisites under the PPC. You know that well. But just because there's a check, in view of the presumption of innocence, doesn't mean that the check is over and that we have a verdict. Requesting clearance!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I will put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Tzipov, made by the National Representative Danail Kirilov. They voted 145 MPs: 122, against 7, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Tzipov to the hall. We continue with the speeches. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! When, at the first reading of the Commission, your district managers answered shockingly to the questions of the MPs how they would guarantee quality and best price, I like to work with old companies that I took their fear of, I thought it was wrong. But now I'm starting to see the positives, and I'm even hesitating if you're right. After all, why do people need public procurement with a notorious winner? Why shouldn't you choose your companies directly? If you are in the way of public procurement, if you are hindered by the two instances in the appeal of EIAs, if you are in the way of legal order, there is nothing wrong with forming the legislation in your image and likeness, and in the end the Bulgarian citizens will appreciate this by dignity. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u35	Bravo, you've broken them!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u36	Thank you, Mr. Bojankov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? If there are no other speeches, let us put an end to the debate. We will call off the debate and move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the proposal by MP Philip Popov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 152 MPs: 62, against 83, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for a single paragraph, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 153 MPs: 94, against 51, abstention 8. The proposal is adopted, with which we have concluded the second vote of the Law. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev. An explanation of a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I voted against this text of the Bill because the principle position of our parliamentary group is that the National Assembly should be limited in the adoption of texts that create a food environment for corruption. Because our position, of course, and my personal position, as I am currently explaining my personal negative vote, is that the main battle with corruption is not to create a food environment for corruption. Any legislative text that allows for administrative racketeering, for administrative arbitrariness, is a food environment for corruption. Any text that allows competitions and all other procurement procedures to be circumvented creates a food environment for corruption. I would like to draw attention to all Members of the National Assembly that when they declare their intention on their own behalf and on behalf of the parties and the parliamentary groups that they represent, by separate measures in the fight against corruption, that this is the main method for combating corruption.. not to create a nutritional environment for this phenomenon! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u38	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Negative vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u39	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I voted negative for three reasons. Firstly, because I think it is not the job of the MPs to become accomplices in an environment that is legal and regulatory to open doors to corruption actions. Secondly, because I think that, colleagues, considering the case with the National Palace of Culture and the Haskovo case, if you will, the CEZ affair is coming up and it is coming up very soon when we will have to stand on both sides of the line. And on the line, we're not going to stand on the left or right, it's not going to be political. This will be the line on which everyone will choose to stand... whether we let the state to the citizens and to our people or the state to remain to the sly ones. With this bill, with this amendment, with this change I think we will not be with you on the one side of the line. We don't want to leave the country to the smart guys. That is why I voted against.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u40	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. We'll proceed with a statement. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u41	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The municipality of Hajredin is located in Northwestern Bulgaria with a total population of 5624 inhabitants as of 2009; the municipality of Vratsa is also located in Northwestern Bulgaria with a total population of 73,894 inhabitants according to the 2011 census; the municipality of Bregovo is located again in the Northwestern part of Bulgaria and the population of the municipality by census of 2011 is 5514 people. The common thing between these municipalities is that all three of them are located in the poorest part of Bulgaria - Northwestern Bulgaria, which is also the poorest region in the whole of the European Union. The general thing is that in all three municipalities live decent and hardworking Bulgarian citizens, that in all three municipalities the population is already significantly less, and the demographic disaster acquires monstrous sizes. The common thing is that they are Bulgarian municipalities affected by disasters, and the state should take care of them all, to protect the life and health of every Bulgarian, regardless of its residence. The state, the government can't conjuncturally, without any objective, real criteria, separate people from different municipalities, but, unfortunately, they do. They do it in the most unpardonable and ugly way, punishing the citizens of the municipality of Bregovo for their free political choice. They do so because in the municipality of Bregovo GERB has never won any types of elections. Financial assistance was properly granted to both Hayredin and Vratsa, but Bregovo was ignored again. Bregovo was punished by the Bulgarian government! According to Mr. Borisov, there may be another category of people living there - fewer citizens, fewer Europeans who do not deserve to care about their country. In the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria it is clearly and categorically stated that all state power stems from the people, and the people of Bregovo, Mr. Prime Minister, are part of this people. The Republic of Bulgaria is a unified state with local self-government, but local self-government does not mean abdicating the state of responsibility. The Republic of Bulgaria is the rule of law and is governed by the Constitution and the laws of the country. Where in the Constitution or the laws of the country it says, Mr. Prime Minister, that in your discretion, according to your current mood, without clear criteria and for vague reasons, you can stake the life and health of the Bulgarian citizens on the map simply because you do nothing and do not help the needy Bulgarians. In the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria writes:..... Bulgaria guarantees the life, dignity and rights of the person................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Dka fields, pumping stations supplying the municipality with drinking water, how did the government guarantee you the lives, dignity and rights of the people of Bregovo? How? By sending a check to the municipality, have the procedures for carrying out European projects been complied with at this very moment? Is this your understanding of the European future, when people are in distress when they are threatened, the only authority that cares about them is to send them a check for the implementation of European projects?! Prime Minister, didn't you learn from Miziya? Didn't it startle you? What did you do to secure and manage the dams in Bulgaria, the security facilities? What is the state of "Irrigation systems" whose task is not only irrigation, but drainage and protecting the population from flooding? What is your strategy for the development of this sector, because the momentary, emergency, fire approach is not a solution, but an unjustified risk. The people of Bregovo and the mayor of the municipality are left by this government at the mercy of fate and mercy of time. Until today the mayor of the municipality has not been given an official result for the quality of drinking water in the municipality. People do not know what awaits them and their children..... will they be in their homes alive and well, will it not affect their health by drinking tap water? Because it is a fact, Mr. Borisov, that cancers have increased many times in Northwestern Bulgaria. In this regard, when the state obviously does not care, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria took action to take water samples, to examine them in an independent laboratory and to inform the population the results of the study. The problem with the firewall at Bregovo, which is state property, is not a force major, has not arisen since yesterday. It existed from Mr. Borisov's first government since 2010, when Bregovo was facing the real ugliness and danger of being sunk. Despite the numerous letters and calls of the mayor of the municipality to all responsible institutions since 2010, as ruling and leading in three governments, you have done nothing for Bregovo. The great help to Bregovo was given only during the elections, when Gendarmerie was sent there, not because there were problems, but to show people who is the self-retardant in Bulgaria and to think about how to vote. Where's the gendarmerie now? Maybe it's guarding hundreds of thousands of holes in our roads. Where are the institutions, where is the government, where is the state? Where is the help for these Bulgarians? They're gone. The people in Bregovo are overwhelmed by fear, despair and anger. Fear of floods and tanks of sulfuric acid, which pass around the city 24/7 in close proximity to school and kindergarten; fear of their life and health; despair and anger caused by the government's inaction; despair and anger that they are forgotten and punished by the government of Bulgaria, by you, Mr. Borisov. Mr. Prime Minister, Bregovo is part of Bulgaria. Do not treat the Bulgarians there as bad material! They are worthy, honest and brave Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u42	Thank you, Mr. Popov. The way you're running things? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u43	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, will we help the people of Bregovo if we speak from these microphones? The problem is there, the problem is there, and the problem is solved. For the information of colleagues who do not know the essence of things, I think that Mr. Popov is one of them, in Vidin region there are 37 km dikes, eight dams that are constantly maintained and improved, and in this case were
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u44	What are the visible results?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u45	Yeah, the visible results we saw last week, you came in with the SUVs, you got into the buses, they gave you boots instead of giving them to the people who clogged up the dykes, and you solved the problem. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u46	Guys, can I ask you to listen to each other?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u47	Currently in Vidin and Vidin works a crisis headquarters at regional level and crisis headquarters in municipalities where necessary and currently solves the problems of groundwater drainage and the protection of the entire area. And right now, the Danube is raising its level and pressing on the rivers that are pressing on the rocky waters and getting these whirlings. But for information, the dikes in the municipality of Bregovo from 1982 to 2010 were owned by the municipality and the mayor to report to his political leadership what they had done during that time. Since 2010, all possible actions have been built and taken to protect the town of Bregovo and the municipality. What has been obtained is the result of an unregulated processing of swamp lands that are currently being withdrawn. My question is: who processes these lands, whether they are 8,000. Dka, whether the flooded area is 5,000. Deca, whether the arable land is 2 thousand. Does she have any kindred, close contact with the mayor of the municipality of Bregovo? Second of all, it's not true. You're liars! It is not true that the municipality of Bregovo is powered by drinking water from the flooded wells and long ago these wells are in deep reserve. It is powered by wells that are in the land of the village of Rakitnitsa, and there is no danger to the drinking water of the inhabitants of the town of Bregovo. It's a fact. It is a fact that, together with the regulated checks, both RZI and Irritative systems and RIEW do continuous measurements not only of drinking water, but of all the waters that are both underground and flooded and there is no danger. Even from the Serbian state, we have received assurance that waters are not dropped from the mine's storage facility, so what you are doing at the moment is not at the service of the citizens of the municipality of Bregovo or Vidin. That is not true and you are straining pressure, which is completely unnecessary. I would like to ask you to take a look and ask your mayor what is being done right now, not to look for him as a generator of ideas for BSP. Let it be a generator, only that the municipality of Bregovo is in times bigger family company than all the examples you give for GERB, for the whole of Bulgaria. There are people working who are blood-related to each other and have been running the municipality for years. To say that there was a gendarmerie, that there was a feudal government, it is unworthy. Indeed, there are good Bulgarians and good citizens of the Republic of Bulgaria living in the municipality of Bregovo, but they are by no means subject to the current government "six mandates of Mayor Milcho Lalov." Let us help people, raising slogans here and urging the prime minister, the institutions to do their job. From this tribune, as I have thanked many times on other forums, I would like to thank the Fire Department, I would like to thank the Irritative Systems, the Regional Government, the RZI, all the institutions that are doing their job round the clock. Then you should have seen what equipment the volunteers were using, who were pumping water with their own galoshes, and you were given new boots from the municipality. How can that be? And get up here now and say that the municipality of Bregovo is in danger! I want to assure people that neither Vidin nor Vidin nor Bregovo are at risk. We do everything we can, nature acts extremely, and we react adequately. What you say is unworthy is what you do, but at least do something useful. Because when you went to Kardzhali for a meeting, did you help the landslide and the storm?! You're having a crisis PR, but it won't help you in the crisis you've been through. Thank you. [[Applause. The line from GERB: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u48	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Popov, but this is a statement. Please, I'm just gonna ask you to really be a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u49	Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for giving me the opportunity. Mr. Toshev said that I was not familiar with the situation in Bregovo in Vidin region and regarding irrigation systems. I am very well aware, dear Mr. Toshev, that to this day the mayor of the municipality of Bregovo has not been given any official document on the quality of drinking water in Bregovo. I am aware that only the mayor, with his own funds and efforts of the municipality, was trying to drain the flooded territories without receiving any adequate assistance from the Bulgarian state until now. I am aware that people in Bregovo have bought the mineral water and there is no mineral water in the shops because they are afraid to drink water from the tap. You're fearing people in Bregovo, not us, because you're hiding the quality of drinking water. This problem, dear Mr. Toshev, I am aware that it has been sitting since 2010!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u50	Mr. Popov, please stick to the framework of a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u51	Of course, I explain what I'm familiar with. I am aware that the problem has been sitting since 2010 and to this day nothing has been done, and this is a state partition facility. The dike is state-owned and the state should have taken care to strengthen it and to operate the irrigation systems of drainage throughout the whole area because the irrigation systems do not work in the area.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u52	Shame on you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u53	I am aware that by 2014 the people of "Irrigation systems" when you were managing did not receive salaries, and by their own means they bought hoops to fix the pumps in pump stations so that the electricity would not kill them when they went to drain. I am familiar with all these details, dear colleague Toshev! But what did you do for Bregovo? What have you done for the other municipalities in the territory of Vidin and Vidin itself in terms of drainage? Why was the money for the dikes past Vidin transferred to the Sofia subway by your government? [[Comments from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u54	Mr. Popov, your time is up. Thank you. [[Loud noise and lines.]] It's the way it's supposed to be. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u55	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chairman, when honest lies are uttered from the stands of the National Assembly, you must stop the speaker. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I'm from Bregovo, I speak for the citizens of Bregovo, and I know the situation very well. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Much better than Mr. Toshev, who came five minutes before...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u56	The way you run it, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u57	Therefore, I would like to tell you to interrupt such things and not to speak frank lies from this tribune! This is the National Assembly! Shame and shame! [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Revelations: "Bravo! ")]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u58	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. In the manner of holding Mr. Toshev, but really address me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, when there is a statement on behalf of a group, there is no right to a personal explanation. This is for you, Mr. Chairman. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I understand your desire to give the floor to the opposition, because they can only speak in front of microphones and nothing else to do, but to the two colleagues who spoke before me, let them not insult the institutions, because currently in the municipality of Bregovo are draining 40 thousand. liters of groundwater per minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u60	Mr. Toshev...! [[Replyes: "In the manner of conduct! "]] Mr. Toshev, to me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u61	Mr. Chairman, I declare here that I am going to ask the ministers questions................................is there a possibility of draining 4 liters per minute, they do not have one pump...?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u62	Okay, thank you. Please graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u63	You insult Fire, RZI and Irrigation Systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u64	Before we go any further, fellow Members, I'd like to take a breather. Mr. Ademov, we'll continue with you. Let's calm the passions. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CODE OF THE TRUDE. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers and adopted in the first vote on 21 February 2018. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, to present the contents.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Firstly, allow me to make a procedural proposal regarding the discussion of the Project, to invite the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Lazar Lazarov to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u66	Thank you. I put to the vote Mr. Lazarov's motion for admission. They voted 99 MPs: 93 against 1, abstention 5. Sustained. Please invite Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u67	"Report on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code, No 802-01-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers, adopted at the first vote on 21 February 2018. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u68	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote three texts: the text of the importer on the name of the Law; the text of the importer for § 1 and the text of the importer for § 2 supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u69	According to § 3 there is a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska- Zhekova, Krum Zarkov, Nikolay Ivanov, Georgi Gokov, Violeta Jeleva, Kristina Sidorova, Tsvetan Topchiev and Vesela Lecheva: In § 3 in the new content of art. 164b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. in the title the words "child up to the age of 5" drop out. 2. in para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "A worker or employee who adopted a child over 5 years of age shall be entitled to leave within one year of adoption of 90 days. 3. In para. The first sentence of the first sentence shall not be later than the age of 5 years and the comma before them shall be removed. 4. in para. 8 the text after the word "leaving" until the end of the sentence shall be replaced by "from the admission of adoption." 5th para. 9 is amended as follows: The leave under para. 1.. 3, 5 and 8 is not used in the death of the child and in the termination of adoption, but except for the hypothesis of para. 1 sentence second and when the child visits a children's establishment, including a nursery or a school. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u70	Statements? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u71	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposal we are making from our parliamentary group is to allow the adoptive parents of children over five years on some kind of leave. By the current provisions of the Labour Code and the Social Security Code, adopters of children over five years of age do not have any leave. [[Reply from rapporteur Hasan Ademov: "It is not true. "]] The Social Security Code and the Labour Code are principles of equality and solidarity. With our proposal, we propose that all adoptive parents of children over five years of age be entitled to 90 days of leave to be enjoyed within one year of adoption. The current provisions of the Labour Code regulate the possibility of biological parents. I regret to return to what I have to say in relation to all the possibilities created by the Labour Code and the Social Security Code. Article 163 of the Labour Code lays down the right of leave of the biological parents to take leave from birth to two years of age of the child. They have been regulated and have the respective rights of 410 days, first, and then, between one and two years, they are also entitled to leave and the Social Security Code receives the corresponding compensation. The adoptive parents of children up to five years of age also have the regulated right to leave. Now, with the proposals made in the Labour Code, which we are currently amending, we are comparing all adoptive parents to children under the age of five. Unfortunately, adopted children and parents of children over the age of five do not fall into these hypotheses because the Law on School and Preschool Education regulates their coverage in such a form and they are not entitled to leave. However, there are provisions in the Law on pre-school and pre-school education, which regulate the self-esteem and very often children who are over five years of age and are subject to adoption, I would like to stress that around 2000 and over 2000 children in the Register for adoption are over five years of age, let us give adoptive parents the opportunity to take some targeted, adaptation leave. It is not a coincidence that we regulate it within just 90 days in order for this leave to be assessed by the parent, this is a right, it is not an obligation in which time period of one year from the adoption to use it, giving a prerequisite to enjoy it in the holiday period when the child does not attend school, or if the child attends an independent form of training. Five - year - old children and over five - year - old children who are subject to adoption are very often behind in their stages of development. I am sure and I am convinced that I say this as a mother and as a parent that you are all well aware of the need for an adaptation period of each parent, whether it is biological or not, whether it is adoptive. Let us, with this proposal, which we are making under § 3, give equal opportunity to parents and adoptive parents who decide to adopt over a five-year-old child to have the right to such leave. We are talking here, on the one hand, about people who are employed who are insured for these insurance cases. Again, I stress that we are talking about a right here, not an obligation, so that this short time order of 90 days can be used. I call on everyone, regardless of the positions you have taken in the committees, to think and to take a positive decision. Let us enable adoptive parents of children over five years of age at a better level and a solidarity that they need. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] After all, we're talking about the kids. This is an absolute state policy regarding adoption and support for these children. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u72	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I won't. Before giving the floor for new speeches, colleagues, on the Western balcony are our guests from the town of Kazanlak Let's say hello! [[Applause.]] Do we have any other comments? Mr. Ademov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! This discussion is part of the big discussion about combining family and professional life. It is no coincidence that, within the framework of our Presidency, even within these days, there is a discussion on the adoption of this directive, which concerns the combination of professional and family life. I must remind the honourable MPs that Bulgaria is one of the few countries in which the leave for pregnancy, birth and raising a young child is 410 days, plus for raising a young child 365 days between the first and second years. Next, I would like to remind the honourable Members that the total number of adopted children in 2017 was 578. Of these 578 adopted children, divided by age groups, at the date of deletion from the Register on 31 December 2017 from zero to three years are 473 children, from three to five years are 55 children, between five and ten including 45 children, and over 10 are five children. What do I want to point out with this statistic? Adopted children over five years of age are 50 children from a total of 578 national adopted, i.e. the issue of adoption of children up to five years of age and over five years of age is in no way bound to leave, which we are talking about right now because the motivation for adoption is conscious, it is planned. It is no coincidence that those who adopt children go through a very complicated and difficult procedure, within which there are also periods set aside, days in which the possibility of adapting to the new family is sought. A large part of adopted children by national adoption are from foster families in which foster care provides an opportunity to adapt. If we accept this extra 90-day leave, what does it turn out to be? It turns out that the families of children from biological parents will not be able to take this leave, unlike those parents. I don't want in any way, there's nothing worse than that in social security to oppose one group provided to another group, which is currently coming. In any case, we need to be aware that the motivation for adoption is far from related to the use of leave or to the use of any additional goods. Motivation is completely different. When we talk about this directive, I have just failed to mention that the discussion that is currently under way is to provide for national legal leave within two to four months, but for all parents, including biological parents, biological parents, and families with adopted children. So very soon we can reach this leave, but for all parents, not just parents of adopted children. The discussion is very delicate, the discussion is, as they say, thin on the edge of seeking justice. My request is: let us make sure that we do not exclude biological parents from the possibility of taking such leave!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u74	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? Here's a line for you, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u75	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I have listened carefully, with great respect to Dr. Ademov's speech, but I will allow myself to oppose him in the fact that the discussion is really very delicate. It concerns biological parents and adoptive parents, but this is about an even more delicate problem. I'll tell you this as a pediatrician: children who are adopted over five years are experiencing extreme stress in adapting to the new family. As far as I understand from the colleague, the idea of a discriminatory hypothesis, which is raised by the opponents of this proposal, in this case from a purely psychological point of view, because you say that it is a delicate and indeed the issue is a very delicate one, it does not endure. Since we have many cases in the surveillance of such children who enter, unfortunately, because of a lack of adaptation to the family from which they are adopted, they are very often in subsequent conflicts with adoptive parents. This is an opportunity for the family, although it can attend preschool or other training, to successfully implement this adaptation. I call on all my fellow Members to think seriously and make this exception, for such a small human contingent, you have quoted very precisely the figures, regardless of the possibility that has been pointed out in the Commission for a discriminatory hypothesis. But I ask myself: what is fairer for this unfortunate child, who will be adopted at this very, very fragile age? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u76	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Is there another line? Here's a line for you, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u77	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I hope, indeed, that all of you in this Chamber, passing through your own prism the care for every Bulgarian child, will be able to process the need for such targeted leave. My line to Mr. Ademov relates to the fact that the Law on pre-school and school education ultimately regulates the independent form of training and it is necessary when the child has a lag in development, and the most frequently adopted children, lazy by institutions and foster families, are actually experiencing this stress. So let us note that we are also going against the Pre-school and School Education Act here, just as the Labour Code and the Social Security Code are trying to comply with the Bulgarian legislation in the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Is there another line? Here you are, Dr. Ademov, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u79	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Mihailov and Mrs. Klisurska, thank you for these lines, but never in the Commission, and I have never said here that this is about discrimination against one group or another. It is about a very subtle feeling of introducing a new line of injustice. You know how sensitive Bulgarian society is with regard to the sense of justice. When we talk about the possibility of this additional leave, I stress again, this discussion continues at European level, this discussion will probably be, if not within the framework of our Presidency, in the next European Presidency. This directive will be adopted. Then we will have the opportunity to resume this discussion. I'm saying all this because you're saying that these kids are going into a stress situation. Indeed, it is. The adoption procedure itself, on the one hand, gives additional opportunities for adaptation, but think about it, a child who comes from the province to study in Sofia, for example in the first grade, is not experiencing a stressful situation? Even one MP, let's leave the kids alone, doesn't he have a stressful situation? Next thing you know, a kid who's in puberty, doesn't he have a stressful situation? Don't you need extra care? So even if things are uneven, let's look for fair solutions, not try to re-enact individual groups of society.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u80	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The need for these changes to the Labour Code and specifically proposed by § 3 is undeniable. I would even say that we are late and thus discriminated against hundreds of adoptive parents from the possibility to enjoy rights under Bulgarian legislation, expressed in leave for the child adopted and the corresponding benefits for this. The adoption problem has been going on for years. It is not enough that the procedure itself is long and clumsy, but also adoptive parents with the luck and happiness to reach the finals find that instead of stimulating them, the state is damaging them. In both basic social laws, the Labour Code and the Social Security Code, when adopting a child within one year, adopters are entitled to high-paying maternity only for the time when the child reaches that age. That is, if a child is adopted at nine months old, the adoptive father receives 90% of his salary only until he is one year old. Then he is entitled to another year's leave to raise the child until he is two years old, for which the mother or adoptive mother receives 340 BGN. of the month.. as cut off from the heart of the rulers in the adoption of this year's budget for the second year of maternity. It is clear why importers bring these changes to the Labour Code, their motives are clear. There have been cases, including in the practice of implementing the current legislation, where there is inequality between adopters due to the different age of adopted children. As a result of a specific complaint, such a finding is also found in the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. It is also clear that the objectives of the applicants are that adoptive parents of children up to the age of five have the right to 365 days of leave, which will be able to benefit from the day of handing over the child for adoption, but no later than five years of age. The aim is to ensure equal rights of adoptive parents to provide the necessary parental care and family environment for raising children and to increase the motivation for adoption of children. I will not hesitate, I suppose that is what my colleagues will do, to welcome and support the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for what it does with this amendment and supplement to the Labour Code, because they are trying to guarantee some equality between adoptive parents and parents. The question comes to light: after the entry into force do these changes guarantee liberal rights for parents and adoptive parents to provide the necessary parental care and family environment for raising children, and do we also increase the motivation for adoption of children, especially those over five years? Are we fully achieving the objectives set out in the reasons for the bill? My answer is: absolutely not! No, because in Bulgaria about 80% of children in the adoption register are over five years and less than 10% of adoptions are children over five years. The number of adoption candidates has been maintained in recent years and only a quarter of adoption applications indicate a preferred profile that concerns children over five years. For adopted children over five years, adoptive parents still have no right to maternity leave, but it is more important to note that they will not have that right in the future. According to the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, this is not discrimination. Strange interpretation of the situation, I think. For the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria it is very clear that for children raised and raised without parental care in the first months and years of their lives is of particular importance. It is essential that after adoption a healthy, harmonious and emotional relationship be established with their new family, and the period after adoption is of great importance in this process. Therefore, our proposal with the MPs is to solve the problem of this so necessary adaptive period and for adopters of children over five years of age. We believe that targeted leave is needed after adoption for adaptation. Unfortunately, we have not come across an understanding of our proposal either from the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy or from the other parliamentary groups in the Commission. I do not expect any understanding today in plenary, but nevertheless I am going to tell you that you are not right and that we are not solving these people's problem, we are not stimulating them, we are not helping them in this complex undertaking, the adoption of a child. The most logical thing is that the adoptive mother has the right to leave a child when she is adopted, regardless of her age. That is to say, when adopting children over five years of age, this leave is one year of high-paid parentage to pay 90% of the income on which it is provided regardless of the age of the child. For a number of reasons we have stopped at 90 days. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Just one more sentence. We've stopped for 90 days and we're motivated for it. I'm sure you'll reject it, but consider this proposal to be accepted sooner or later, because the rest is unfair.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u82	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mrs. Klisurska, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u83	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Gokov, thank you for your comments regarding our proposal. Dear colleague Gokov, however, you did not stress something extremely important and important. When we talk about the possibility of biological parents taking some kind of leave when their child goes to school, dear colleague Gyokov, those biological parents have used targeted leave related to pregnancy and childbirth, including the parents of children adopted up to five years old, have taken the relevant leave. Here we are talking about the possibility and adoptive parents of children over five years of age to have, after all, some kind of leave and it is only 90 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u84	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any other lines? Mr. Gyokov, come on in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u85	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mrs. Klisurska, thank you for your thanks, but I'm still among the importers and it makes sense to defend my proposal. There's nothing more logical than what I'm saying. A lot of things and a lot of aspects of adoption don't concern us here, but within five minutes, you can't say everything in this tribune. It is more important to me with my speech to challenge the MPs to think about it. I can go back in time in the chronology of these proposals to see how many years we have harmed these parents, rather adoptive parents, and we have not given them their due. And they were certainly discriminated against, this is recognised, including by the Commission for Protection against Discrimination. Now even the hint itself that in some way, when we give these people some rights, we discriminate against others, it doesn't seem clear to me. I can also mention here that this proposal back in time, which is now a proposal from the Council of Ministers, was a proposal from the BSP group, only it was rejected because it was proposed by the opposition and not by the government. I am extremely pleased that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is ripe for these changes and does them, as I am convinced that after maybe a year or two, maybe more, I have no idea how things will go, but the Social Ministry will be forced to propose some solution for adoptive parents who adopt children over 5 years of age, because, believe me, Dr. Mihailov said very well about this adaptation period, which is necessary when adopting a child. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u86	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Any other speeches? Here you go. You have the floor, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am also among the importers, but I will not motivate our proposal because this has been done by my colleagues before me. I just want to draw your attention to a number. In 2017, as Mr. Ademov said, only 50 children over 5 years of age were adopted. Remember that number! What are we talking about? Yes, I accept the changes proposed in the bill by the importer, but that is not enough. As my colleagues have also said, the existing inequalities in relation to adoptive parents up to five years of age and over five years of age are not decided. We're not talking about any financial incentives here. We're not even talking about motivation because we said it was a personal act. A very well-meaning personal act and no benefits or financial incentives will contribute to adopting more children in Bulgaria. It is clear to us all, but still, in order to show our support for these adoptive parents, we must show that it is an important priority for the state to be adopting. The topic is very long, the subject is also very different, because in terms of adoption we must work in another direction, but I ask you to support our proposal, even though it is proposed by the opposition, because sometimes we need to think and be reasonable as regards the interests of the children of Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u89	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I think I'll make the shortest statement. Consider when you decide these things. Ask the people who did this. Let them tell you how children over 5 years of age adapt, if there is stress in moving not only to the new family, is there stress in moving from one school to another, from one social form to one family that is no longer foster. From this tribune I would like to thank, as a person who knows things well, the thousands of foster families in Bulgaria, who are a successful form for raising children at risk. But I would like you to support this proposal, which has been made by my fellow Members, because it is reasonable. It is wise to be able to help to a large extent adapt both the family who adopted a child and the child who was adopted. From now on, I think that one day we will come to this decision, which today does not God forbid. We'll get to it because it's both fair and very social. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u90	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Here's your speech, Mrs. Angelova. Before we continue, colleagues, let's welcome the students from school in Vasil Levski. Elin Pelin. [[Applause.]] You have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u91	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The aim of the Bill, which we are currently looking at, is to eliminate an injustice. The proposed changes aim to equalize the rights of all adoptive parents of children up to 5 years of age because several years there were inequalities between adoptive parents of children up to 2 years of age and adoptive parents of children from 2 to 5 years of age. Now, with this change in the Labour Code, we equalize the rights and all adoptive parents of children up to 5 years of age will be entitled to paid leave of 365 days and the corresponding monetary compensation from the day of handing over the child to adoptive parents, but no later than the age of 5 years. The age limit to be commented on at this debate is not accidentally chosen for the use of leave of 365 days by adoptive parents. This is so that by the age of 5 the child must attend kindergarten. This is a very fragile age in which both biological parents and adoptive parents should be next to the child, the child should have support and should be raised in a family environment. The adoption theme is very delicate. This topic is very emotional, but in this case, colleagues, we need to distinguish emotions from pragmatism. Indeed, we do note that there are problems with adoption, especially with adoption of children at an older age. Statistics show that in 2016 only 9% of the total number of adopted children in 2016 and 2017 was adoption of children over 5 years of age. 54 children over 5 years of age were adopted in 2016 and in 2017. 50 children. Dear colleagues, the problem of adopting children over 5 years of age is not with regard to incentives. It is a matter of personal choice for adoptive parents themselves, a question of attitude, of inner conviction. Most of the adoptive parents in Bulgaria wish to adopt a child by 1 year of age, at most until 5 years of age, and, unfortunately, those children who are older, harder to adopt. I cannot agree with colleagues who have just taken the floor that if there is a leave that they offer, up to 90 days for adoptive parents of children over 5 years of age, this will be an incentive, more children over 5 years will be adopted. Dear colleagues, the process of adoption, as has been said, is a long process. Adopting doesn't end with one meeting. When an adoptive father decides to adopt a child, it is a long process that is preceded by training, by meetings between the adoptive father and the child itself. There is a certain period that is at least one month in which the adoptor has to make the next meeting to get to know each other, to adapt with the child concerned, and these meetings can be ten, can be five, can be 20, can be 30. In no case, when an adoptive parent makes a decision, it does not matter whether the child is one year old, five years old, 15 or 17 years old, it does not end with just one meeting. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This is a long period, and I think it is appropriate that we adopt the Bill, which has been tabled by the Council of Ministers, because everything else that you have said does not concern this topic with regard to children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. A forest of hands! Mrs. Klisurska, Mr. Gokov, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, here we comment on inequality, here we comment on the inability of parents who adopt children over 5 years of age to have the right to some leave after all. And if we look at the principles of equality and solidarity laid down in the Social Security Code set out in the Labour Code, we will just proceed to the vote on our proposal because it creates a better level, Mrs. Naydenova. I am convinced that you are really right that this will not be a prerequisite for adopting more children, but we are giving these people the right, who have yet consciously decided to adopt a child over 5 years, to have the right to such targeted adaptation leave. In case you haven't understood, I repeat it repeatedly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u94	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u95	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I will accept everything you say from here and will accept your speech as a statement of argument rather on the proposals of the Council of Ministers on establishing a level playing field for adoption of children between 0 and 5 years, only that you have tried to criticize in some way our proposal. Leave this discrimination aside, leave everything we've spoken out of this tribune. We're talking about targeted leave. We're talking 90 days of adaptation between the child and the adoptive mother. Don't talk to me about any pre-dates that have been made. What difference does it make when a child is adopted 4 years and 10 months and a child 5 years and 1 month? You make some argument, the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is one that motivates the restriction on the use of rights for adopted children up to 5 years of age, with the fact that 5 years of age is consistent with the intended age in the Preschool and School Education Act, where children must necessarily be covered in the education system. Understand that this has nothing to do with that leave that needs to be interrupted when the child goes to kindergarten, motherhood. That's 90 days for adaptation. Don't talk about incentives here, about personal choices, about I don't know what you're talking about. Find out, it's an adjustment leave, targeted leave! I have not heard a single argument why you are opposed to our proposal for these 90 days' leave. The rest is clear, we accept it. We will vote for each proposal from the Council of Ministers..................................................................................................... However, you explain what happens to children over 5 years of age and why you are against these 90 days of adaptation. Explain that. Everything else doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u96	Here you go, Professor Mihailov. Third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I have listened carefully to your speech, but I would like to share with you as a specialist that the law itself and this separation between under five and over five years of age have nothing to do with the actual development of the psychology of children. That's one age between three and six years. Behind you is an experienced pediatrician and will tell you that it is called preschool age, which forms the first social models of children. I don't know if you've visited children's homes, I don't know what you've heard about the violence in children's homes, but I have to tell you as a specialist that these children, between three and six years of age, have formed in themselves extremely negative social models that cannot be easily broken down. This isn't about stimulation. I ask all MPs to listen. Here we are talking about a limited group of people, about a fragment, and I am very sad when, by the power of the majority, as the Romans say: "Many is not always right, but is almost never progressive! I ask you to listen to what we share, to be objective. Not to mention that this is a grieved decision of foster parents who will make such a decision, and it must be provided with relevant opportunities by the legislator. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u98	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members replicating! Adopting, as I told you, is a very delicate subject, and you are currently playing along the thin string of emotions. You have to make a distinction. There is neither in the Labour Code nor in the Social Security Code, adaptation leave. This is not a vacation for adaptation. There's no record of it being an adaptation leave. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] The adaptation begins, as I told you, at the first meeting of the adoptive adoptive parents with adopted children. I know this process of adoption very well. As a former regional director, I was rightfully chairman of the adoption board, so I know the whole adoption process to pain. You must distinguish between adaptation leave and child-bearing leave. That's two different things. In the Social Security Code, this leave to raise a child up to five years of age is linked to monetary compensation based on the insurance risk previously paid. Please, before you go out and say some things, you need to prepare yourself well. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u100	Thank you. The way you're holding it, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. President, please do not allow such assessments in this House incompetence and, so to speak, in some sort of bias to cases. Yeah, I'm addicted, I can also declare a conflict of interest in this discussion, but I'm very familiar with everything that's going on with the adoption. Very familiar! Let me excuse you and keep your nerves some other time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u102	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In order for there to be no doubt whether I am prepared or not prepared on this subject, I will remind you of part of my work history. From 1999 to 2003 I managed the World Bank's Children's Welfare Project in Bulgaria, the European Union then, and I am one of the creators of the Child Protection Act, the first, the State Agency for Child Protection and so on. I think I'm prepared on the subject I'm about to address. Colleagues, this is not about equalising rights and inequality, first of all. We're talking about a human attitude here. When we talk about the problem of children in institutions or the so-called deinstitutionalization of children, we should always think about what and what additional measures should be taken so that children are taken from these institutions not only into foster families, which is not bad, but find that way in which children can enter full-fledged families as full-fledged family members. One way is what we offer. We are not opposed to what the Council of Ministers is proposing, and we will support it. We'll support him, but we want to expand the scope. We want to make it clear that when it comes to adoption of children of older age, the older the child's age, the more difficult it becomes to adapt to a family. Moreover, meetings held in advance do not give that way of life in a family. They give some kind of introduction to the adoptive father of adoptions as pure human relations, not as a lifestyle, not as living conditions. Each adoptor, in order to be able to adopt, must prove that there are both material and moral and any other qualities with which he can be adopted. He has to work, too. How do you imagine that? We're adopting him with the adoption certificate. The child comes home at 5, 6, 7 years old and his adoptive father says: "Goodbye, I am going to work today! Stay home and see how you're doing. ♪ Do you understand, this is the absurdity? That's what we want to do about the child being able to spend a few days with his adoptive father. It's not a killer three months, ninety days that a child can get used to being beaten, knowing what it's like, where the bathroom is, what it means to be in a family. What does it mean to have any responsibilities towards each other? How to live in a family because this child came from an institution that has nothing to do with a family environment. I don't see what's keeping you from getting these 90 days?! This will only help, on the one hand, people to know that when they take this child, they will have the opportunity to take care of, to be together and to educate one another because the process of adoption is mutual education. He's not just raising the adoptive parents. It's also a new responsibility. All this can be done. I don't see the reason you're turning him down. You had refused previous proposals, which are now accepted by the Council of Ministers. You will most likely come to this offer to accept it. As I've always said, develop faster. Don't wait a year to get it over with, that what we're offering is right. I hope you will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u104	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. - What's the line? Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I have no doubt about your knowledge of child protection with regard to protection measures, but I would like to say this to make it clear to the other MPs in fact what the discussion is about. First of all, biological parents have the right to leave for pregnancy and childbirth, I stress a large amount of leave for pregnancy and childbirth, 45 days before birth, 365 days after birth. After that leave, within which they receive compensation under the Social Security Code, they shall be entitled to leave for child rearing until the age of two years. Every year, the state social security budget shall determine the amount that parents receive for leave between one and two years of age. Besides this leave, the right to a 15-day leave immediately after birth, when the couple is in family relations, is also entitled to the husband of 15 days of additional leave, according to a directive that we have ratified and introduced into the Bulgarian legislation. What is now offered by the Council of Ministers? It is proposed to introduce leave of 365 days and adoptive parents until the age of five. Why this five-year-old has been determined, there have been enough arguments here. What is proposed is to have additional leave, I stress, an additional 90-day leave for adoptive families, for the so-called adaptation that you say. However, this extra 90-day leave hasn't been available to the biological parents. Do you think that biological parents, children born in a family of biological parents have no problems similar to those who have children in foster parents' families? There may be a difference, perhaps there is such a difference, but children born in biological families also have problems. In the age and stress they experience when they are in the first grade, when they are in preschool education and training conditions when they are in puberty, when they switch schools with each other, there are always such stressful situations, only they do not provide for this additional leave. That is why I am going back to the original thesis again. The European Commission is currently discussing a directive within which this issue is also being discussed, but in the form of a big discussion about the use of family and professional life for such leave between two and four months to all parents, including adoptive parents. This is the difference between what is offered by the Council of Ministers and what you propose.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u106	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u107	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I agree with some of the things you said was a professional statement. But I don't agree with what you said and you bruised him several times from the stands that these children are from institutions. There are no more institutions. The GERB government closed these institutions. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The children currently subject to adoption are in foster families and in services of an alternative type, in an environment close to the family, so the institutions were ten years ago, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u108	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Ermenkov, all mothers who have been appointed under the Labour Code have the obligation to be provided, it is regulated in the Social Security Code, the General Disease and Childhood Code. I'm emphasising, everyone! However, in our country, there are mothers who do not become mothers who fall into the assumptions to adopt, but they are obliged to import the corresponding insurance that is, on the one hand. [[Reply by MP Tasco Ermenkov.]] Mr. Ermenkov, if my child, which I decide to adopt, turns five years of May, the school year begins September, what do we do? Does the compulsory school visit, which is regulated in the Preschool and School Education Act, give me the compulsory form to start school from May? Here is the opportunity for this leave to be taken. I am sure that no biological parent, Mr. Ermenkov, will oppose this proposal of ours, because parents who have children who have taken leave will ultimately not seek this adaptation leave when the child goes to school. They have taken advantage of the regime of art. 163 " 164 of the Labour Code at an earlier age of this child, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u110	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u111	I'll start with Mr. Ademov's statement. Mr. Ademov, we are not opposed to what the Council of Ministers is proposing, I think I have stressed it fat. We are expanding what the Council of Ministers has to offer, and I think I have argued it in some way. If you believe that Bulgaria cannot be more prepared and adopt legislation before the European directives are adopted and on the basis of them to adopt legislation, this is your problem. I believe that we are reasonable enough people to wait for the European directive to impose on us what to do when we can do it ourselves when we know that we have to do it when we know that this is for the benefit of children. And it's not a question here, if we're going to put it this way, I can put it this way: you can't have a mother, you can't have a baby for a long time, you can't have a baby, you can't have a baby, you can't have a baby, you can't have a baby, you can't have a baby, and you can't have a baby at a little older age, you can't have a baby for a long time. I don't want her to get maternal for not being able to give birth. We simply want these children who will enter a family where there are built domestic conditions, where there is some way and mode of life, to be able to adapt each other's parent to a child. It's simple! I don't know how to explain it to you in more detail. This isn't about millions and billions. It's about humanity, it's about these kids and these parents being able to fit in with each other. Ninety days will not bring down the economy of the state of 54 children, as it proved by statistics. In fact, I would like to ask a question: excuse me, yes, it is not those institutions that were, but there are still institutions, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u112	No, they're foster families.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u113	He's got it, he's got it. They may not be an institute, they may be family types. What is this family-type thing? Isn't it the same, it's not a family, it's not a family, it's a family type?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u114	I won't, I won't.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u115	And see the foster families - how many of the children who are in foster care, those who are without parents, and how many children are there without parents who are not in foster care? Do this statistic and you'll tell me. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u116	And Mr. Chairman, then I'll take the way I'm supposed to, after I'm done with the back. Once again, I call my colleagues to reason and to humanity, to nothing else. There is no emotion, there is just pragmatism, as you say, there is something we need to do in order for Bulgaria to have more adopted children, and the harder it is for them to adopt at an older age, the better conditions we need to create in order for them to be adopted, and not to stand without any prospect, to have full and full families. That was my douche bag. Now in the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u117	Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u118	Mr. Chairman, at the moment you are witnessing a relapse of unacceptable behavior by colleagues from GERB sitting on the front row Please take action. Thank you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u119	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs, which the Commission does not support. They voted 121 MPs: 39, against 7, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer under § 3, which shall also be supported by the Commission. 125 MPs voted: 125, no opposition and no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u120	Under § 4 there is a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 4: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 in the new content of para. 1 words of a child up to 2 years of age and of a child up to 5 years of age shall be removed. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 in the new content of para. 2 words to a child up to 2 years of age and a child up to 5 years of age shall be removed. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 5 in the new content of para. 4 words up to the age of 5 and up to the age of 2 - drop out. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 6 in the new content of Al. 5 words of child up to 2 years of age and child up to 5 years of age The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u121	Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We are going to vote on the reported texts. First of all, we vote on the proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska- Zhekova, Krum Zarkov, Nikolay Ivanov, Georgi Gokov and Violeta Zheleva, Kristina Sidorova, Tsvetan Topchiski and Vesela Lecheva, not supported by the Commission. They voted 116 MPs: 32, against 5, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of the importer for § 4. They voted 118 MPs: 118, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u122	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u123	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text proposed by the Commission for § 5. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u124	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: In § 6 in the new content of item 4 words of child up to the age of 5 - drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 352, para. 1 the following 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 and 3 the word "s' shall be replaced by the word "s' used. 2. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." the temporary incapacity, pregnancy and childbirth and adoption of a child up to 5 years of age used unpaid leave;
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u125	Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 121 MPs: 34 against 4, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the proposal for a text of § 6 on the Commission report. Vote 115 MPs: for 114, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u126	The Commission proposes to set up a new division: the previous and final provisions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u127	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new unit of operations and final provisions. They voted 111 MPs: 111, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u128	Under § 7 an offer is made by the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: In § 7 in the creations § 3k, in para. 1 and para. 2 the word "July" is replaced by "April." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... (1) The workers and employees or persons to whom the leave due to the adoption of a child under the repealed para. Article 6 and 11 163 et seq. 10 in its version until the entry into force of this law or under art. 164 shall not expire until 1 July 2018, including, from that date, they shall be entitled to leave under art. 164b, para. 1, 2 and 3 for the remainder up to 365 days, but not later than the age of 5 years. (2) The workers and employees or persons to whom the leave due to the adoption of a child under the repealed para. Article 6 and 11 163 et seq. 10 in its version until the entry into force of this law or under art. 164 has expired until 1 July 2018, including, from that date, they shall be entitled to leave under art. 164b, para. 1, 2 and 3 of the difference between 365 days and the sum of the benefits or leave due to pregnancy and birth and to raise a child up to 2 years of age but not later than 5 years of age of the child. (3) In the cases under para. 1 and 2 leave shall be granted on the basis of a written application from the person to the undertaking. (4) During the period of leave under para. 1 and 2 to the worker or employee or to the person benefiting from the leave shall be paid monetary compensation from state social security. (5) From the day of authorisation of leave under art. 164b, para. 1 and 2 and 3 leave under Art. 1, 2 and 3 Art. 163 or under art. 164 is hereby terminated.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u129	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Zhekova. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u130	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As you know, the proposals for amendments to the Labour Code, which we are voting on today in this Chamber, are dictated by a case of discrimination and its consequence. That is precisely why, under § 7 and then under § 14... According to § 7 are the cases, our proposal is for the Law to enter into force from 1 April, not as proposed by 1 August. The entry into force of the Law of 1 April will be fairer to the so-called cases under way, referred to in § 7, in which the period for the use of leave under the Labour Code has not expired or expired, as they have so far been placed in a discriminatory situation, but also to the amendments already adopted will be created a number of difficulties: an interruption of leave only a few months after the adoption of the child, and this will result in a number of problems - a slower adaptation of the child to the new environment, a visit to a nursery, in which the environment and return to work of the adopter in just a few months and this will be conditioned by the various benefits that follow from the Social Security Code. Some of the parents will benefit from their right to benefit from the better hypothesis that we are currently voting on, namely to enjoy 90% of their gross wage, as I say, within 365 days. So let us create the possibility that from tomorrow the Law will enter into force so that there is no imposition for interruption of leave, so that those who have adopted children in this discriminatory time order under 2 and over 2 years of age can benefit from their full right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. The line asked for Mr. Ademov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u132	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. It is obvious that importers' desire for the rights that have been voted on so far to enter into force by nearly two months earlier on 1 April. By the way, the Law has been in force since 1 July and not since 1 August, but that is the least of the problems. However, I would like to say a few technical things which are why your proposal cannot be implemented. First of all, there is a Law on regulations, according to which the Regulation on working hours, holidays and leave, the Regulation on state social security monetary benefits, which, in relation to the adopted proposals, must be adopted, must go through a public discussion 30 days, must also go through an inter-agency discussion, which in fact excludes the possibility of this happening until April, because it remains a little more than one month. Secondly, the National Insurance Institute cannot process this new information because it is about changing the software and it is about the software of employers, and a large part of this software is implemented by external contractors, so that in order to be able to walk this administrative procedure, it is necessary that time which is specified in the proposal of importers. The desire for the Law to enter into force a little earlier by two months is good, but technically and legally there is no way that this will happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u133	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Are there any other lines? I don't see anyone who wants to. Here you go, Mrs. Jekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u134	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I know very well the time limits laid down in the Law on Legislative Acts, but I would like to emphasise something very important and essential. The discriminatory case is related to the proposals introduced from 2014. Both the discriminatory case and the decision under it are from mid-2016. Dear Mr. Ademov, one year we postpone the entry into force of better and fairer provisions. It is high time we did not delay any longer, and in this regard is our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u135	You're a lawyer, and you know that you can't accept the law until the law is passed, and you can't accept amendments to the regulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We are going to vote on the texts proposed for § 7. First, I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nadia Zhekova and a group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: 24, against 50, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text proposed by the Commission for § 7. Please vote. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u137	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission does not support the importer's wording on the name and proposes to reject it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u138	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to reject the name of the subdivision. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u139	Paragraph 8 of the importing proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Ralitsa Dobreva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by Nadia Zhekova and a group of MPs: The following amendments shall be made in § 8: (a) c. 3 in the new content of art. 51, in the title the words "child up to the age of 5" fall; (b) c. 4 in the new content of art. 52 words in the title and in the text of the provision are dropped; (c) c. 8 in the new content of art. 53a the words of a child up to the age of 5 in the title and the words of the child up to the age of 5 in the text of the provision fall away; (d) c. 9 the following amendments shall be made: - in the creations art. 53b the words "child up to the age of 5" in the title and the words "up to the age of 5" in the text of the provision drop out; - in the creations art. 53c: - in the title the words "child up to the age of 5" drop out. - in para. 1 words of a child under the age of 5 and the text after the words. For the duration of the leave under Art. 49, up to the end of the sentence shall be replaced by the term of the leave under art. 164b, para. 1 of the Labour Code. - Al. 4 ssssssssssssssssssssssssss; - The current para. 5 becomes para. 4. (e) c. 12 in creations § 22f in para. 1 and para. 2 the word "July" is replaced by "April." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 1 the word "Caldar' is deleted; (b) paragraphs 5 and 6 are amended as follows: The person insured for general illness and maternity in which a child is accommodated in accordance with art. 26, para. 1 of the Child Protection Act, is entitled to compensation under para. 1 in the amount of the difference from the age of the child on the day of his accommodation in accordance with art. 26, para. 1 of the Child Protection Act, until the expiry of the due allowance for birth. (6) The father insured for general illness and maternity shall be entitled to monetary compensation for the birth of a child in the amount determined in accordance with art. 49, for up to 15 days, during leave under art. 163, para. 8 of the Labour Code when it meets the conditions of art. 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) and 48a (s) respectively; (c) in para. 7 the word "Calendar" is deleted and the words "chl." 163, para. 10, 11 or 12 163, para. 10 and 12 (d) paragraph 8 is amended as follows: suppliers shall be entitled to compensation under para. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7, when they meet the conditions of art. 48 a.m., 48 a.m. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 1 text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The mother who fulfils the conditions of art. 48a, receive monetary compensation of 50 per cent of the compensation under art. 49, when "supplied'; (b) in para. 2: (aa) in the first sentence, the words (bb) in the second sentence, the words "instruction for general illness and disability' shall be replaced by "to meet the conditions of art. 48 a.m., 48 a.m. 3. Article 51 is amended as follows: "Dead or mother's or adoptive mother's disease up to 5 years of age Art. 51. In case of death or severe illness of the mother (the adoptive mother), which prevents her from looking after the child, the person who enjoys leave under art. 167 of the Labour Code, payment of monetary compensation under art. 49, 53 or 53c. The compensation shall also be paid to self-insuring persons when they meet the conditions of art. 48a, 52a and 53a. 4. Article 52 is amended as follows: supplies in pregnancy and childbirth and adoption of a child up to 5 years of age upon termination of insurance Art. 52. Upon termination of the insurance for general illness and maternity during the period of receipt of child benefit for pregnancy and birth or at the adoption of a child up to 5 years of age, the insured person shall be paid monetary compensation until the expiry of the term of the benefit for pregnancy and birth under art. 50 or adoption of a child under art. 53c. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in the title, the words "little child' shall be replaced by "child' until the age of 2'; (b) in the text, the words "little child' shall be replaced by "child' until his 2 years of age'. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in the title, the words "little child' shall be replaced by "child' until the age of 2'; (b) in the text after the word "child', the date of his 2 years of age is added. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) the title is amended as follows: (b) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: After the expiry of the benefit for pregnancy and childbirth, during the additional paid leave for raising a child until the age of 2 years, the mother shall be paid monthly monetary compensation in the amount determined by the State Social Security Budget Act. The benefit shall also be paid to the adopter if, after the expiry of the period of the child's adoption allowance, it has not reached 2 years of age. (c) in para. 2: (aa) in the first sentence, the words (bb) in sentence two, the words "c'. 167, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 167, para. the following point is inserted after point 6 (Commission (d) in para. 3 the words "up to 2 years of age" shall be replaced by "up to the age of 2 years"; (e) in para. 4 a comma is placed after the words "adopting" and added when the adoption is terminated. (f) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: suppliers shall be entitled to compensation under para. 1, 2, 3 and 4 when they meet the conditions of art. 52 a... 8. Article 53a is amended as follows: Law of adoption of child up to 5 years of age Art. 53a. The persons insured for general illness and maternity are entitled to compensation for adoption of a child up to 5 years of age if they have 12 months of insurance experience as insured for that risk. 9. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 53b, 53c and 53d: Date for submission of documents and data for payment of child adoption allowances up to 5 years of age Art. 53b. The insurance companies, their branches and subsidiaries and insurance companies shall present in the respective territorial division of the National Insurance Institute the documents and the data for payment of monetary compensation in the case of adoption of a child up to 5 years of age within the period laid down in art. 40a, t. 1 and self-insuring persons up to the 10th of the month following the one from which compensation is requested. Compensation for adoption of a child up to 5 years of age Art. 53c. (1) The person insured for general illness and maternity during leave during the adoption of a child up to 5 years of age shall be paid compensation in the amount determined in accordance with art. 49, for up to 365 days from the day of handing over the child for adoption, but no later than the age of 5 years. (2) The adopted adopter insured for general illness and maternity shall be paid monetary compensation for adoption of a child in the amount determined according to the order of art. 49, for up to 15 days during leave under art. 164b, para. 8 of the Labor Code. (3) The person insured for general illness and maternity shall be paid monetary compensation in the amount determined according to the order of art. 49, after the expiry of 6 months from the day of handing over the child for adoption for the remainder up to 365 days during leave under art. 164b, para. 2, 3 or 5 of the Labour Code. (4) The monetary compensation under para. 1, 2 and 3 shall not be paid upon the death of the child, upon termination of the adoption, upon accommodation in a children's establishment on full state support, and when the child visits a children's establishment, including a nursery or an educational establishment. (5) Self-insuring persons shall be entitled to compensation under para. 1, 2, 3 and 4 when they meet the conditions of art. 53a. Compensation for non-use of leave in the case of adoption of a child up to 5 years of age Art. 53 C.E. (1) The adoptive mother of a child up to 5 years of age or the adoptor who has adopted a child himself up to 5 years of age when she meets the conditions of art. 53a, receive monetary compensation of 50 per cent of the compensation under art. 49 when after the expiry of 90 days of the day of transmission to the child for adoption: 1. does not take leave for adoption, or the person taking such leave interrupts its use; 2. The self-insuring person shall begin to pursue work for which it is provided for general illness and maternity. (2) When the adoptor has died, is deprived of parental rights and/or the exercise of parental rights on the child is granted to the adopter, the compensation under para. 1 is paid to the adopter, and when he died the guardian. The compensation is paid to the guardian and in cases where the adoptor who adopted a child himself has died or is deprived of parental rights. The compensation shall be paid when the person who took over the raising of the child meets the conditions laid down in art. 53a. (3) The compensation under para. 1 and 2 shall not be paid upon the death of the child, upon termination of the adoption, on accommodation in a children's establishment of full state support, as well as on its upbringing by a person included in maternity support programmes. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in the title, the words "little child' shall be replaced by "child' until the age of 2'; (b) in para. 1: (aa) in the text before t. 1 the words "insured for general illness and maternity and had the right to compensation' shall be replaced by "instructions'; (bb) c. 1 the words "little child' shall be replaced by "child'; (c) in para. The second sentence shall be replaced by the following: 52 a.s.; (d) in para. 3 after the words "when the child is given for adoption" a comma shall be placed and added when the adoption is granted. 11. Everywhere in the other texts of the code, the words "from 2" are written.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u140	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Dear Members of Parliament, we will proceed to the debate immediately after the break. During the holiday, we are all invited to the opening of the exhibition The Caricatures of Boris Dimovski and the characters of Nikolai Haytov. The exhibition is a retrospective presentation of the two great artists of Bulgaria in the field of literature, cinema and cartoon of the 20th century. In addition, in the Northern lobby will begin and a concert of the ensemble will be presented. The sitting will continue at 12.10. [[Noise and lines.]] (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u141	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue to work with speeches on the content of § 8. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 20, against 4, abstention 66. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 8. 90 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u142	The Commission proposes to create a new § 9: ..................................................... (1) The persons insured for general illness and maternity who have adopted a child and of whom by 1 July 2018, including the period for payment of compensation under art. 50, para. 5 or 7 or under art. 53 of the Social Security Code in their version until the entry into force of this law has not expired, from that date they are entitled to compensation under art. 53c, para. 1 or 3 of the Social Security Code for the remainder up to 365 days but not later than 5 years of age of the child. (2) The persons insured for general illness and maternity who have adopted a child and of whom by 1 July 2018, including the period for payment of compensation under art. 50, para. 5 or 7 or under art. 53 of the Social Security Code in their version until the entry into force of this law has expired, from that date they are entitled to compensation under art. 53c, para. 1 or 3 of the Social Security Code for the remainder up to 365 days but not later than 5 years of age of the child.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u143	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 9 with a text proposed by the Commission and reported by the rapporteur. Vote 98 MPs: 96, none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u144	Under § 9 an offer by the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs shall be made: In § 9, t. 2, the words "child up to the age of 5" drop out in the text. The Commission shall support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u145	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 27, against 4, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 10, and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Colleagues, let's congratulate the guests from the Professional High School of Equipment and Construction. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u146	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG No. ...) in art. In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty, the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. 5, t. 2 words.............................................................................. 163 - 164 a.s. are replaced by.c. 163,164, 164a and 164b The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u147	Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 10, which shall become § 11, and the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 12 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u148	Proposal by Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: In § 12 in the new content of para. 4, the words "child up to 5 years of age" drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u149	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 31, against 10, abstention 65. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 12 which shall become § 13 and shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u150	Under § 13 an offer by Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 13 of this Decision, the Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u151	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I put to the vote the proposal by the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 27, against 4, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14, and shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u152	Under Paragraph 14, there is a proposal from Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: In § 14, the word "July" is replaced by "April." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u153	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 29, against 31, abstention 38. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for § 14, which becomes § 15 and is supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 93, none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. This concludes the adoption of a second reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. Thank you, Dr. Ademov, for the introduction. We continue with the next item of the National Assembly Programme for the week: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE CHANGES OF THE 1999 RECOGNITION OF THE SUB-CLOSURE, EUTROGRAPHATION AND TROPOSPHER Ozone (GYOTEBORGIC Ozone) TO THE 1979 CONVENTION FOR THE TRANS-CLOSURE OF DEADING AIRS OF THE TRADITION OF THE TRADIETTE OF THE EXECUTIVE ORGANIC OF THE CONVENTATION OF 4 MAY 2012 IN WIFE. Report from the Committee on Environment and Water. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018. At a meeting held on 1 March 2018, the Committee on Environment and Waters examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the 1999 amendments to the 1999 Protocol on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution, adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, and Mr. Ivan Angelov, Director of the Department of Air Cleanliness and Prevention of Pollution at the Ministry of Environment and Water. The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Zhivkov. He pointed out that by Decision No 102 of 19 February 2018, the Council of Ministers proposed a draft Law on ratification of the Protocol to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution. The Deputy Minister noted that it is about acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone or the so-called Gothenburg Protocol. Mr. Zhivkov pointed out that the Convention was concluded under the auspices of the United Nations Economic Commission. It is the basic framework governing cooperation and measures to limit and gradually reduce air pollution, the effects on human health and the environment with a focus on cross-border pollution. To date, the Convention has been extended by eight protocols, including the latest "Gothenburg Protocol" ratified in 2005. Its amendment sets out new emission limit values for various pollutants and activities which comply with those laid down in the laws of the European Union and the Republic of Bulgaria. The reduction of emissions of soot-based particles component shall be encouraged. The emission limit values shall be updated. The amendment also sets national ceilings after 2020 for the parties thereto. Mr. Zhivkov explained that the national ceilings for sulphur (primarily sulphur dioxide), nitrogen oxides, ammonia, non-metallic volatile organic compounds and fine particulate matter were determined as a result of intensive negotiations with the European Commission and corresponded to the country's capabilities. The discussions were held in 2012 and agreed with all competent departments. The Deputy Minister pointed out the expectations of ratification: reducing harmful emissions in the atmospheric air, minimizing the excesses of critical acidification loads and biogenic nitrogen, reducing critical ozone levels for both human health and vegetation. He also pointed out that the ratification of the amendment of the Gothenburg Protocol by the Republic of Bulgaria will be an act that implements the European Union's overall policy in this area. Its amendment was adopted by the European Commission by Decision No 17-57/2017 of 17 July 2017. The amendment of the Protocol will not affect the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. During public discussions, there were no proposals or remarks. With regard to finance, these are annual fees paid by the Ministry, they are minimum fees per year of the order of $2540. The chairman of the committee Ivelina Vassileva asked a question about the number of countries that ratified the amendment of the protocol, to which Mr. Ivan Angelov replied. He noted that there is an opinion that ratification should be carried out simultaneously by all countries following the European Union's ratification decision. It is assumed that, by December, Member States will ratify the amendment of the Protocol. Following the discussion and vote, the Committee on Environment and Waters, with 17 votes, proposed to the National Assembly that a bill ratifying the 1999 Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution, adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u156	♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018. At its regular meeting on 28 February 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft for the ratification of the 1999 amendments to the 1999 Protocol on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution, adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water, and Mr. Georgi Mihailov, Head of the Department of Air Cleanliness at the Ministry of Environment and Water. The 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution concluded under the auspices of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe is the main international legal framework regulating cooperation and measures to reduce the gradual reduction and prevention of air pollution and its adverse effects on human health and the environment, with a particular emphasis on long-distance cross-border air pollution. The Convention was signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 14 November 1979 and ratified on 9 June 1981. To date, the Convention has been extended by eight protocols, including the 1999 Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol). The Protocol was signed by the Republic of Bulgaria on 1 December 1999 and ratified on 5 July 2005. At the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention, two decisions were adopted (Decision 2012/1 and 2012/2) amending the text of the Protocol and the Annexes thereto, adding a ceiling for a new Amendments should be ratified by the Parties. EU law has adopted instruments on matters covered by the amendments to the Protocol, including through Directive 2016/2284/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016 on the reduction of national emissions of certain atmospheric pollutants, amending Directive 2003/35/EC and repealing Directive 2001/81/EC and Directive 2015/193/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the limitation of emissions into the air of certain pollutants emitted from medium combustion plants. The two directives should be applied in parallel with the existing EU directives on emission reduction at source, including. Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions. The main objectives of the proposal for amendments to the Gothenburg Protocol are new national emission reduction commitments that must be achieved by 2020 and then for sulphur, nitrogen oxides, ammonia, non-methane volatile, limited compounds and fine particulate matter; promoting the reduction of soot emissions; updating the emission limit values set out in the Annexes to the Protocol. The expected results of the adoption of the Law on ratification of the Gothenburg Protocol are related to preventing or minimizing excesses of critical acidification and biogenic nitrogen loads, overcoming or minimizing critical ozone levels for human health and vegetation, as well as reducing harmful emissions in the atmospheric air. In the subsequent discussion, Christian Vigenin, chairman of KEVKEF, asked whether an analysis of how Ratification will reflect on the business and will there be a need for additional costs for investments in the sectors concerned with the pollution they need to make. Ivelina Vassileva, Vice President of KEVKEF, pointed out that Bulgaria has already had a court decision on particulate pollution and a current penalty procedure for sulphur monoxide pollution in the region of Galabovo and asked for clarification whether these changes of norms will be sufficient or if further changes are necessary to address these challenges and how different from the rules laid down in law will be to what extent they will be. MoEW representatives informed that there was no evidence of negative impact on the business and in the procedure for public consultation of the bill there were no objections. It was stressed that the amendments to the Gothenburg Protocol do not impose any new legislation, because it already exists and this bill does not introduce new requirements for business. With regard to fine particulate matter and sulphur oxides, they clarified that the new protocol in Gothenburg was the introduction of a ceiling of fine particulate matter as a pollutant, and with regard to sulphur oxides, they assured that each year their levels decreased with the exception of the area of Galabovo, but it is intended to take measures. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds proposed by 7 votes for the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for the ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you go, Mr. Gadget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018. At its regular meeting held on 28 February 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the ratification bill. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov, Deputy Minister of Environment and Water. The objective of the Gothenburg Protocol to the Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution, which is concluded under the auspices of the United Nations Economic Commission for Europe, is to control and reduce emissions from sulphur, nitrogen oxides, ammonia and volatile organic compounds which are caused by human health, natural ecosystems and agricultural crops, due to acidification, eutrophication or tropospheric ozone (divided in the lowest layers of the atmosphere) as a result of cross-border atmospheric transport of distance. The measures aim to ensure that, as far as possible, in the long term and in stages, taking into account progress in scientific knowledge, atmospheric depositions or concentrations do not exceed the limit levels. Bulgaria is a party to the 1981 Convention and has ratified the Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone in 2005. The proposed amendments introduce new national emission reduction commitments to be achieved by 2020 and, in the period after that, for sulphur, mainly in the form of sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, ammonia, non-methane volatile organic compounds and particulate matter. The reduction of soot emissions shall be encouraged and the emission limit values set out in the Annex to the Protocol shall be updated. The application of amendments to the Protocol will lead to improved air quality. The European Union has already introduced in its right instruments on matters covered by the amendments to the Protocol, including by Directive (EU) 2016/2284 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 December 2016, the amendment of Directive 2003/35/EC, the repeal of Directive 2001/81/EC and Directive (EU) 2015/2193 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on the limitation of emissions to air from medium combustion plants. The two Directives in force should apply in parallel with the existing EU directives on emission reduction at source, including Directive 2010/75/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010. Following the debates held, the Commission held a vote in which the draft voted on 9 Members of Parliament, without the opposition and the abstentions. On the basis of the results of the vote, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly that a bill ratifying the amendments to the 1999 Protocol should be adopted in the first vote. on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) of the 1979 Convention on Long-distance cross-border air pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, of 19 February 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u159	Thank you, Mr. Gadget. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u160	♪ I can't believe At its regular meeting on 14 March 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the 1999 amendments to the 1999 Protocol on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva. The bill was presented by Krasimir Zhivkov "Deputy Minister of Environment and Water." The 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution, regulating cooperation and measures to limit, reduce and prevent air pollution, was signed on behalf of the European Economic Community on 14 November 1979. The Republic of Bulgaria ratified it on 9 June 1981. The Convention has so far been extended by eight protocols, including the 1999 Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone. The Parties attending the Thirtyth Session of the 1979 Executive Body of the Convention shall adopt, by consensus, two decisions amending the text of the Gothenburg Protocol and its Annexes. A ceiling is added for new dust particles of up to 2.5 micrometers and two new applications of X and XI. The main objectives of the amendments to the Gothenburg Protocol are new commitments to reduce the emissions of sulphur, ammonia, nitrogen oxides, non-methane volatile organic compounds and particulate matter; promote the reduction of soot emissions; update of emission limit values. This is expected to prevent or minimise the excesses of critical acidification and biogenic nitrogen loads and critical ozone levels, as well as the reduction of harmful emissions in ambient air. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above and on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 7 and 8 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, in the first vote, the Draft for the ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and Tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution, adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u161	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. The report by the Energy Commission will present Mr. Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u162	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018. At its regular meeting held on 15 March 2018, the Energy Committee examined, discussed and voted on the Draft Law on the ratification of the 1999 amendments to the 1999 Protocol on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution, adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Krasimir Zhivkov Deputy Minister, and Mr. Georgi Mihailov Head of the Department of Air Cleanliness. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Krasimir Zhivkov. The amendment to the 1999 Protocol lays down new emission limit values for various pollutants and activities which comply with those laid down in the laws of the European Union and the Republic of Bulgaria. The reduction of emissions of soot-based particles component shall be encouraged. The emission limit values shall be updated. The amendment also sets national ceilings after 2020 for the parties thereto. Mr. Zhivkov explained that the national ceilings for sulphur (mainly sulphur dioxide), nitrogen oxides, ammonia, non-metallic volatile organic compounds and fine particulate matter were determined as a result of intensive negotiations with the European Commission and meet the country's capabilities. The Deputy Minister pointed out the expectations of ratification: reducing harmful emissions in the ambient air, minimizing the excesses of critical acidification loads and biogenic nitrogen, reducing critical ozone levels for both human health and vegetation. He also pointed out that the ratification of the amendment of the Gothenburg Protocol by the Republic of Bulgaria will be an act that implements the European Union's overall policy in this area. Its amendment was adopted by the European Commission by Decision No 17-57/2017 of 17 July 2017. The amendment of the Protocol will not affect the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the course of the discussion the MPs Ramadan Atali, Atanas Kostadinov and Tasco Ermenkov, who asked questions about the consequences of the ratification of the 1999 amendments to the Protocol. Deputy Minister Krasimir Zhivkov replied that the Protocol is consistent with all departments from which no comments or proposals have been received, and the norms themselves are not only for the fine particulates, but also for other major pollutants for which measures will be taken. Mr. Zhivkov also added that there are no discrepancies with the norms laid down in Directive 2015/2193. Following the end of the discussion and on the basis of the vote held, the Energy Committee with 12 votes for the Energy Committee, without the opposition, and the 6 votes of abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt, on the basis of the first vote, the Draft for the ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on long-distance air pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018 [[Applause and applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u163	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Dear Members of Parliament, we are going to discuss this. You have the floor to speak. There are no speeches. I put to the vote a bill ratifying the amendments to the 1999 Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on long-distance air pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018. Vote 94 MPs: 90, none, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. Mrs. Vassileva's procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, I also propose that a second vote be considered Draft for the ratification of the amendment of the 1999 Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u165	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. [[Applause.]] I put to the vote the procedural proposal for a second review of the bill. They voted 93 MPs: 90, none, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. Here you are, you have the floor for the presentation, Mrs. Vassileva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u166	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva, No 802-02-7, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 February 2018. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol on the reduction of acidification and eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva A single member. It ratifies the amendments to the 1999 Protocol to reduce acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-22.u167	Thank you, Mrs. Vasileva. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the second vote the Law on the ratification of the amendments to the 1999 Protocol on the reduction of acidification, eutrophication and tropospheric ozone (Gothenburg Protocol) to the 1979 Convention on Long-distance Transboundary Air Pollution adopted at the Thirtyth Session of the Executive Body of the Convention on 4 May 2012 in Geneva. Vote 92 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 3. Sustained. Parliamentary control announcements for 23 March 2018: - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer two questions from the MPs Vasil Antonov and Kolyo Milev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov will answer one question from the MPs Teodora Halacheva and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Vasil Antonov and Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer eight questions from the MPs Stoyan Mirchev, Dragomir Stoinev, Ivan Valentinov Ivanov, Milko Nedyalkov, Mihail Hristov, Georgi Andreev, Todor Bajchev and Ivan Chenchev and one question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov will answer nine questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov, Nikolai Ivanov, Dimitar Stoyanov, Stefan Burgev, Tsvetan Topchiev, Lalo Kirilov, Daniel Yordanov, Radoslav Stoychev and a question from the National Representative Krasimir Yankov; - The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer ten questions from the MPs Dora Yankova, Violeta Zhelev, Nikola Dinkov, Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Boychev, Diana Savateva, Galya Vasileva, Asya Peeva and Ivan Valkov, Georgi Gokov, Dzhevdet Chakarov, Hairi Sadakov, Lubomir Bonev, Vesela Lecheva, Stefan Burgev, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and two questions from the MPs Dora Yankova, Zhelyo Boychev, Georgi Svilenski and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Krastina Taskova, Georgi Gokov and Kristina Siderova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer three questions from the MPs Irena Anastasova, Irena Anastasova, Donka Simeonova, Svetla Bachvarova and Stoyan Mirchev; - Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer one question from the MP Hristo Grudev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer one question from the MP Rumen Gechev; - Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Kristina Sidorova, Lubomir Bonev and Stanislav Vladimirov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question with a written answer from the MP Miglena Alexandrova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to seven questions with written answer from the MPs Lalo Kirilov, Todor Baychev, Petar Kanev, Nikolay Tishev and Nikolay Alexandrov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Nadia Klisurska; - the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova of a question by the MPs Daniela Saveklieva, Alexander Matsurev, Stefan Apostolov, Georgi Dinev and Dimitar Gamishev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to two questions from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev and Svetla Bachvarova; and to five questions written by the MPs Nikolay Alexandrov, Georgi Stoilov, Kristina Sidorova and Anelia Klisarova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski, to a question written by the National Representative Alexander Sabanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Turnovaliski; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to four questions from the MPs Ivan Chenchev, Philip Popov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Georgi Mihailov and Anelia Klisarova. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Dora Yankova to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov; - a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev to the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski; - a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov to the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov; - a question from the MP Stanislav Vladimirov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. Due to a prior commitment related to the visit to the Republic of Bulgaria of the Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Algerian Democratic and People's Republic, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. The meeting for parliamentary control is not possible to participate the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev because of his commitment to a scheduled meeting (conference) included in the Calendar of Events of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, approved by Decision of the Council of Ministers No 817 of 29 December 2017. The next regular parliamentary meeting is on 23 March 2018 at 9.00. I'm in control. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
