ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. I will introduce you to the National Assembly Work Programme for 11 July 2018: 1. Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the application of art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importer is the People's Representative Danail Kirilov on 10 July 2018. 2. First vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. Aleksandar Sabanov and a group of MPs on 4 July 2018. 3. Second vote on the bill on the administrative regulation of economic activities related to oil and petroleum products. Importers were Emil Dimitrov and a group of MPs on 14 December 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 6 June 2018. 4. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Trade Marks and Geographical Indications. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 November 2017. The first vote was adopted on 23 May 2018. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs were importing on 1 June 2017. He was accepted at the first vote on 22 June 2017. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. Importers are Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 29 June 2018. He was accepted at the first vote on 6 July 2018. The first point for Thursday, 12 July 2018 8. First vote on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Environmental Protection. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 4 June 2018. 9. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Health Act. Importers are Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs on 11 May 2018. 10. Report on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process in the European Union during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union, January 11. Parliamentary control "Friday 13 July 2018, after completion of point 10th. Please, voting mode. Vote 168 MPs: 121, against 2, abstention 45. The motion is accepted. Please come in for a procedure, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 3 in relation to the serious public interest which has been created in the last few days, I propose that the Director of the Executive Agency for Medicines be heard in the Chamber of the National Assembly. It is about the fact that, at the end of last week, 62 preparations for treatment of hypertension were withdrawn by Decision of the Executive Agency under a procedure launched on 5 July 2018 of the European Medicines Agency, which put about 160 thousand. people in a very serious situation regarding a disease with a very large spread in Bulgaria. Moreover, no serious explanations have been given, and the lists have also been changed several times. In our checks at the pharmacies, it turns out that some of the consignments of some of the medicines containing a mixture used in the manufacture of medicines that have an active substance valsartan from a Chinese manufacturer, this production has been under way since 2012, and some of the lots of individual manufacturers and distributors in the network have not been withdrawn. This is a very serious problem. Whoever deals with the treatment of hypertension and heart attack conditions knows that change, although possible on separate combinations of antihypertensive agents, sometimes creates very serious problems for patients with hypertension. This continuous and vague reaction. Moreover, these problems entered into the comments of all media in the next 72 hours, and no responsible factor appeared.. neither the director of the IAL Agency, his deputy or a representative of the Ministry, appeared individual experts. The condition in the SCC in front of the doctors' offices in cardiology is extremely serious. I suppose many of you have an idea of what's happening right now in both the pharmacy and the health network. I think it is absolutely necessary to listen to the explanations of the Director of the Agency for Medicinal Products. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u3	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. We will contact Mrs. Asena Stoimenova and invite her to the plenary. It's really a serious problem, and we need to have information about what's going on with these drugs. Bills and draft decisions were adopted: - Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Game. Importer is the People's Representative Alexander Sabanov. The Committee on Agriculture and Food is the lead; - It's a personal aid bill. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour and Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and to the Committee on Budget and Finance; - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Obligations and Contracts. Hamid Hamid is the importer. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall lead; - Draft decision to terminate the activity of preventing concession for Sofia airport. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Distributed to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications; - A bill to supplement the Law on Higher Education. Importer is the People's Representative Milena Damyanova. The Committee on Education and Science is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; - Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the event of sporting events. Importer is the People's Representative Slavcho Atanasov. The Committee on Internal Security and Public Order is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports and the Committee on Legal Affairs; - Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead; - Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the provision of support services in support of the preparation of plans for river basin management and plans for flood risk management for the Republic of Bulgaria between the Ministry of Environment and Water and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Legal Affairs; - Draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the application of art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Importer is the national representative Danail Kirilov. Moving on to the first item on the agenda, fellow Members: PROJECT DECISION TO ACCEPT PROCEDURAL RULES FOR THE APPLICATION OF ARTICLE 1. 128 OF THE RULES ON ORGANIZATION AND WORK OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION. Mr. Kirilov, if you'd like to introduce us to your proposal and to your motives.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u4	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! To your attention, I will argue the proposal for a draft decision on the adoption of Rules of Procedure for the application of art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In our Rules of Procedure is developed the procedure for hearing the report of the Council of Ministers on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union during the previous Presidency and for the priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria during the current Presidency. Judgments were adopted during the mandates of the Fortyth, Forty-first, Forty-second National Assembly on the basis of § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure in which the hearing of the Report took place. Honourable Members, for this reason, in the present case, the draft decision, which is at your attention, contains absolutely similar rules of procedure, which were in the Fortyth, Forty-First and Forty-second National Assembly. Meanwhile, and before the Presidency, we have made changes to the Rules of Procedure. It has been amended and has currently dropped the temporary non-application of art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure, which is why the reports provided for therein are to be submitted after the expiry of each rotating Presidency of the Council of the European Union. During the review of the Report we have proposed to take part other members of the Council of Ministers, who, in view of their portfolios and competence, can answer questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly. For this reason, I suggest to your attention the following: Project! DECISION adopting rules of procedure for the application of art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of § 2 of the Additional Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the following Rules of Procedure for the application of art. 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: 1. The Prime Minister shall present within ten minutes the report of the Council of Ministers on the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union during the previous Presidency and on the priorities of the Republic of Bulgaria during the current Presidency. 2. Speaks are heard on behalf of the parliamentary groups of one representative within 10 minutes, and one MP who does not belong to a parliamentary group within 2 minutes. 3. Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria may speak under the terms of the plenary. 2: One representative on behalf of the relevant parliamentary group in the European Parliament.. Within 5 minutes, and one independent member of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 4. Answers to questions raised in the speeches under point (c) 2 and 3 of the members of the Council of Ministers.. within 10 minutes each. 5. A decision is not adopted on the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u6	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have a concrete proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria.That is: after the questions asked and the answers of the respective ministers to be related to these answers. This is a practice that we also observe during parliamentary control when questions are asked. When there are questions on specific policies, there is also a connection. I think this is Mr. Kirilov's pass. I don't believe he took the attitude off purpose. I believe that you will support this proposal of ours. 5 to be:......................................................................................................... 5 to become t. 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u7	"Relationship of the Members of the National Assembly to the Answers. " Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u8	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Stoinev, the proposal fully corresponds to parliamentary practice, including absolute harmony with the parliamentary control procedure. There's no way after the ministers it's relevant. You saw how it happened in the discussion and hearing of the Justice Minister and of the Minister of Interior, when colleague Jablyanov in his last line raised brand new questions. Then the ministers had to benefit from their constitutional right to take part at any time at the meeting, but this has already gone beyond the hearing procedure. The final of the hearing procedures is always the guests of the ministers. That's why we haven't suggested... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u9	You'll be able to get a douche. Listen to the speaker.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u10	...finally, because the minister can't answer, and he listens. That's the whole point of the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a second line? I can't see. Mr. Stoynev, for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, any minister can benefit from his constitutional right and at any time take part in the plenary. If he feels affected by the attitude or a new question is asked, which I do not believe, he may answer again. I do not see anything worrying about this, and it is quite normal, in view of the democratic process in this House, when you ask questions, to still have an attitude about the answer. I think this is quite normal and I am convinced that you will support it, because it really looks like a mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Here's your speech, Mr. Ivanov. Then Mr. Hamid for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! It is normal parliamentary practice and it is typical for both parliamentary control and for the hearings of ministers being held here, for the MPs' exhibition to end with regard to the responses made by the respective ministers. It is not the first time, almost every Friday we have questions from MPs who end up with the answers made by the specific ministers. Mr. Kirilov is right that when we called here for a private case hearing, which he said with the Minister of Justice and with the Minister of Interior, the procedure under art. 113 also provides for an attitude towards the answers made. It is normal in this situation, of course, after such an important topic as the European Presidency, the questions to which both the Prime Minister and the ministers have answered about the way in which this Presidency took place, the respective parliamentary groups to express their attitude. In the end, as the ruling parties believe, so does the opposition. It is normal to hear both Bulgarian citizens and MPs, the way these answers are adopted. I am counting on your positive attitude in this direction to follow a procedure, a practice, again I say, established both with regard to parliamentary control and the hearing procedure for ministers who are invited and have collected corresponding signatures from the MPs. It is normal to hear the voice of the opposition. Therefore, Mr. Kirilov, I assume that this thing is perhaps a omission, as said by colleague Stoinev, and I believe that the House will find the right way to restore and restore this thing to this procedure, which you are now proposing, so that we can, of course, express our attitude. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. A line? Mr. Kirilov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u16	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I present to your attention art. 97, para. 3 of our seats: The answer of the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister or the Minister is up to three minutes. The MP who asked a question is entitled to a reply in two minutes. The idea of the procedure of parliamentary control is the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and the Ministers to have the final duplicate. The logic of the procedure that we have presented to your attention is this: the prime minister presents the report in 10 minutes and each parliamentary group has 10 minutes, that is, expresses its attitude after it, including there is an opportunity, besides attitude, to raise questions. In case the parliamentary group raises questions in these 10 minutes, then it is appropriate and therefore we have recorded that the ministers have the opportunity to respond........................................................................ we follow the logic of art. 97, para. 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. A hole, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u18	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I don't understand why you're pushing us to the hypothesis of art. 97. I think we commented, as I did earlier in my speech, that normal practice is under parliamentary control, which we do every Friday in the form of questions, because parliamentary control is up-to-date questions and questions to the relevant ministers when the national representative hears the minister's response to express his attitude. The same is recorded in art. 113, which I have already quoted and concerns the hearing of ministers on topics that excite society every day. Moreover, there is an extremely important topic here, such as the Bulgarian Presidency. It is normal for each parliamentary group after the answers it received or did not receive to express its attitude. We have no reason to get the impression that we are trying in any way to cover up the Prime Minister, the minister or the Deputy Prime Minister in question, so that we cannot say or express any respect for what they have spoken. I really don't understand you, Mr. Kirilov. It is normal practice, and you should agree in this House today to allow us to be able to express our attitude towards these answers. Imagine the failure to give an answer or not to give a specific answer, but in our view to express this disagreement. We are still a parliamentary republic and it is normal for Parliament to put here the topics of the day. It is right, it is good that there is a desire by the Prime Minister to be here and to present how the Presidency ended, but it is right and normal for the highest authority in this country to express its attitude. Please, by procedural rules, do not put the possibility of the Members of the National Assembly expressing their views in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u19	Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u20	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kirilov! I would like to draw attention to the following point in the proposed draft decision. Following the speeches on behalf of the 10 minutes parliamentary groups, the proposed project provides for a point. 3 in which Members of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria may speak under the conditions laid down in paragraph 3. 2, that is, there will be new speeches from the Members of the European Parliament, which will not only be in relation to the report, but will be in relation to the entire Presidency which has taken place. In this case, in the context of the speeches under point (c) of paragraph 1, the Court of Justice has held that, in the case of the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union and the Court of Justice of the European Union, the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice of the European Union' or the Court of Justice of the European Union's Court of Justice's Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice'), the Court of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice'), the Court of Justice of Justice of the European Union ("the Court of Justice'), the Court of Justice of It is most normal in such a case that the MPs from our National Assembly, not the European Parliament, may participate in this debate. We cannot know at the moment the representatives of the European Parliament from the Republic of Bulgaria what questions will be asked in the Chamber. They may raise issues that are outside the report, which are also outside the positions taken by the individual parliamentary groups. It is perfectly normal to provide for a procedure for an attitude that will not only be about the ministers' answers, but will allow the MPs to speak on the overall discussion and not just on the report that has been presented. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u21	Thank you, dear Lord Zablyanov. - What's the line? Here's your speech, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u22	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the Parliament, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, has a proposal on this. 4 of the draft decision submitted by the importer Daniel Kirilov, namely: 4 to acquire the following version: "4." Answers to questions raised in the speeches under point (c) 2 and 3 of the members of the Council of Ministers Colleagues, what are my arguments? First of all, 10 minutes to answer one question is too much. Imagine that the entire Council of Ministers came here. This is going to turn into an unnecessary talk room. I have no idea, Madam President, how many ministers will attend on Friday, but it is every minister's right to come and attend. Moreover, the Rules of Procedure now give every minister the opportunity to stand up and express his attitude, to speak as much as he wants. In no way do we restrict each minister's right to speak, of course, to the Prime Minister. My other argument is that in point. 2 to the parliamentary groups, we give a total of 10 minutes, in which, fellow Members, note that the speaker must make a speech, express the position of his parliamentary group, a general assessment of the entire Presidency, and if there is still time to put, if he wants, on one question. But if there are ten members of the Council of Ministers here, ten ministers, a minute to each minister makes ten minutes. And ten minutes of speech, twenty minutes. Somehow it is unfair that a whole parliamentary group in these 10 minutes should express an attitude, a position for the whole Presidency, a attitude to the Prime Minister's report and raise questions. And, notice, then there won't be a chance in position. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I would just like to remind you that we voted on a decision on 5 December 2017. 4 It was said: every minister every month in the board shall be accounted for during the Presidency. In this Chamber are most committee chairmen...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u23	Mr. Hamid, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u24	Let's say how many of them held this hearing every month. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u25	A statement? Excuse me, Mr. Hamid, I'm lost. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u26	A very short speech, Madam President. I would not like to repeat the argument I have already made with regard to the procedure, but to take occasion from previous speeches. It seems to me that my colleague Hamid is right if there is to be proportionality, even if it is the right of the ministers, let us limit their answers in general to 10 minutes, I say again, although this is contrary to the basic principle, which is in the Constitution and in our Rules of Procedure. With regard to the other view, if BSP colleagues had proposed, for example, a question of 2 minutes, and 8 minutes of response, taking attitude, and would have made such a proposal, we would have discussed it, but for now it seems to me that the time has been allocated proportionately. However, bearing in mind that if we do a second round of the procedure, this will indeed, as fellow Hamid said, take three hours on Friday. If that's what we want, and we think there are so many questions that we can put, okay, but offer it as a breakdown of the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u27	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Mr. Ivanov, the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u28	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, we have really sunk into the procedure. The procedure is really very important, but we are talking about one main thing. "This is the first Presidency of Bulgaria of the Council of the European Union, it is normal for the parliamentary groups, the MPs to express their attitude on the answers to the questions asked by the parliamentary groups. What you're doing right now, and you're trying to throw into the basket our proposal, is starting to smell like an attempt to close our mouth on this subject. We may not like those answers. Why do you want us not to be able to express our attitude? We do it every Friday. The ministers come here, we ask them the questions and finally the people's representative expresses his attitude and the minister does not come after him. He may come out, but he won't come out anymore. You know, and you yourself said that each minister has the right at any time to come out to take the floor, and this thing does not apply to the MPs. Once again, this Presidency is our first and it is extremely important. That's why you scored this as a special point with special rules. Let these rules be based on what we already have as a practice in this Parliament. Don't stop him! Allow at least the opposition to express its attitude. Otherwise, not to say a strong word, but it'll still sound like censorship. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u29	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. The line, Mr. Stoynev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, my expectations were that there was some kind of omission and we are now at the fifth item on the agenda. The very fact that we stand so much on t. 1 shows that you have some concern. And this proposal you're making, we almost have seven minutes to talk and three minutes to talk, and I don't know what that's gonna bring you. The problem is for three more minutes for one person from a parliamentary group, not everyone to come out and speak. I'm sorry, but in three minutes we've made such a problem!? Instead of saying: okay, it's okay, it's normal in a democratic state to have an attitude. Once again, if something happens to you, which I do not believe to be the case, any minister or prime minister can take part in the matter whenever they want. It is quite normal to have an attitude when answering questions. It's about three minutes. You want to take them from the MPs, which, again, I say, is one person from a parliamentary group. I don't think it's that big a problem. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I think that this proposal of yours does not meet the objectives set out for what you have done to divide these ten minutes. Let them stay ten minutes plus three more minutes per parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u31	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Next is Ms. Tsveta Karayancheva's reply to Daniel Kirilov's statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u32	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, perhaps you should have made it clear to your colleagues that your proposal is based entirely on the proposals of the forty-first, forty-two and forty-third National Assembly. And there, colleagues, we follow parliamentary practice, in the rules that have been adopted during all these three meetings...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u33	To Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u34	Yes, Mr. Kirilov, it has nothing to do with MPs after they have concluded their speeches and their statements ministers. So, referring to parliamentary practice, I think that this is exactly where you have worked and that is why you have made such a proposal, all the more so that the five parliamentary groups are given ten minutes to speak, 50 minutes to come together as an attitude towards Parliament and you do not want to take the floor away from the parliamentarians. I think, referring to parliamentary practice, Mr. Kirilov's proposal is entirely correct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u35	It was an expression of a specific disagreement with Mr. Kirilov, we assume so. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u36	It's a clear violation of regulations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u37	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members who spoke to my speech was absolutely correct, but I said this at the very beginning of the presentation of the report. Again, I will repeat the forty - one - forty - one - forty - two national assembly! At the 40th National Assembly GERB is not at all in the National Assembly, that is, the first appearance of such a procedure is without GERB as a parliamentary practice. Forty-first National Assembly is the only meeting in which there is majority representation of GERB. In forty-two, when we listened to Oresharski, it was the exact same procedure. That's what I wrote. I told you twice this thing I have followed the previous parliamentary practice. There is nothing to hide, colleagues, provided the timing is as follows: we have 20 minutes if they seal them, for the members of the Council of Ministers, and 50 minutes for five parliamentary groups, that is, 70 minutes. Plus, if they want members by group of the European Parliament to take an opinion, if they're 4 times 5, that's another 20 minutes. An hour and thirty minutes is the timing of this procedure, two hours. There's nothing to hide! And you are well aware that parliamentary practice has never taken away your opportunity to replicate both now and subsequently these opinions. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Don't make me shape your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u38	Time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u39	I'm not offering you three minutes. You should have.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u40	The weather, Mr. Kirilov. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u41	What I've suggested is this. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u42	I'm pretty distracted today, guys. Forgive me. Here, and Mr. Kirilov, accidentally, I cut him off. I'm sorry, Mr. Kirilov. [[Radio and lines.]] Mr. Svilenski for speaking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u43	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I am addressing you for 40 minutes now and we are wasting parliamentary time allowing four parliamentary groups to have three minutes on Friday. In 12 minutes on Friday, we lost 40 minutes today. Dear colleagues, you give the practice from the forty-one, forty-two, forty-third National Assembly. Isn't this the first time Bulgaria is European President? Isn't this the first time the Prime Minister will take this European presidency into account? Isn't this the most important thing in these six months that happened in Bulgaria and Europe? And we want this whole thing done in two hours without the MPs being heard?! I can't understand what a National Assembly we are, what kind of MPs we are when we want to limit ourselves, smash ourselves, humiliate ourselves all the time? The ministers will talk as much as they want, and we'll all talk, you and you, and you. [[pointing parliamentary groups]] You're gonna talk for exactly ten minutes and you're not gonna be able to tell each other the answer to the question you asked? Do you understand the madness we're making right now in 12 minutes of time, four groups in 3 minutes of attitude? Let's accept this proposal and not get into any pointless arguments, because this is going to happen on Friday, and we're going to start here again with procedures in the way of conduct, in the way of personal explanation, and these 12 minutes are going to be 220. Accept Mr. Stoinev's proposal and let's move forward as we have an agenda of 12 points! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u45	Thank you, Madam President. After all we have been listening to for so long, my proposal is that the initial speeches on behalf of the parliamentary groups should be 7 minutes and then every single parliamentary group should be entitled to an attitude within three minutes, if you agree. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u46	This is insane!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u47	Why is it insane, Mr. Stoinev? Aren't those first seven minutes enough for you to tell us what happened? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Okay, that's my offer. If you wish, support him. If not, it will remain the same as the Commission's initial proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u48	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Is there another line? I won't. Mr. Svilensky, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u49	I didn't understand exactly what the line was to me, however, Mrs. Grozdanova, I suggest that BSP's group do not have minutes. Save: all parliamentary groups except BSP. BSP - zero minutes to complete your decision. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u50	We agree, we agree!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u51	Write: zero minutes for the group of BSP and 20 minutes for the group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u52	Is that an official offer, Mr. Svilensky? Should I put it to the vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u53	Then I think the debate will become perfect, will be reflected in European media, in European space. I suggest, if it is your proposal, just make it zero minutes for BSP and 20 minutes for GERB. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u54	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. Colleagues, I will put Mr. Stoinev's proposal to the vote first: 5 to become the Members of the National Assembly to the Ministers' replies within two minutes; Vote 179 MPs: 85 against 42, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. We proceed with Mr. Hamid's proposal....................................................................................................... Answers to questions raised in the speeches under point (c) 2 and 3 of the members of the Council of Ministers, within a total of 10 minutes for all ministers. Vote 178 MPs: 163 against 9, abstention 6. I put to the vote Mrs. Grozdanova's proposal in which she proposes: to hear speeches on behalf of the parliamentary groups for one representative within seven minutes, with three minutes remaining for the views of the ministers. Maybe this is where we should split it up and do more... First, we will vote on the parliamentary groups to speak for seven minutes. Please, a voting regime so that we can arrange the draft decision. Vote 179 MPs: for 7, against 90, abstention 82. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, I'm voting on the draft decision with the respective version... [[Replying from the hall]] . Three minutes, yeah. The fifth point we will put it: "Relation of the MPs to the ministers' responses within three minutes;" Vote 180 MPs: 87, against 53, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. We are now going to vote on the draft decision. Is your proposal serious, Mr. Svilensky? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I put to the vote Mr. Svilenski's proposal: the minutes of BSP, 20 minutes of GERB. They voted 97 MPs: 32, against 32, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote a draft decision adopting procedural rules on the application of art. 128 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly with the adjustment made. Vote 172 MPs: 112 against 19, abstention 41. The motion is accepted. Before we go to the next point, colleagues, we have contacted Professor Stoimenova, please remain silent, who said that she had pre-supposed commitments and will not be able to come. Also, that all the information on the case was on the Agency's website, there was no cause for concern. Colleagues, this is an unacceptable attitude towards Parliament and I suggest that we call Professor Stoimenova under art. 113. [[Heckling]] I put to the vote what I have proposed under art. 113 for Professor Stoimenova's hearing. Vote 166 MPs: 166, no opposition and no abstentions. Please inform Professor Stoimenova of the decision of the National Assembly and respectively the outcome of the vote. Invite Professor Stoimenova to come to the National Assembly immediately. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR INVOLVATION AND CONVERSATION OF THE DIVERSE. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Here you are, Mr. Sabanov, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u55	Madam President, honourable Members! Access procedure in the hall of Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Atanas Dobrev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u56	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Please vote on admission in this Chamber. Vote 131 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Invite the guest to the hall. Mrs. Dimova, please come in and read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u57	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 854-01-63, submitted by the National Representative Alexander Sabanov and a group of MPs on 4 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u58	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u59	The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 5 July 2018, at which it discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 854-01-63, submitted by the National Representative Alexander Sabanov and a group of MPs on 4 July 2018. In the meeting of the Commission of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry took part: Atanas Dobrev - Deputy Minister; of the Executive Agency for Forestry: Grigor Gogov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u60	Mrs. Dimova, wait a minute. Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall and ensure the necessary silence for work! Please, colleagues, take your seats! Thank you. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u61	Thank you. "Grigor Gogov" Executive Director, and Daniela Angelova - Director of the Department of Administrative Legal Services and Human Resources. The bill was presented by the MP Alexander Sabanov, who explained that the proposal aims to prevent African swine fever and is in line with the measures approved at an operational meeting of the Council of Ministers. The change will allow a reduction in the population of wild pigs given the presence of outbreaks of the disease in neighbouring Romania and the real risk of the disease being transferred to the country's territory. In this regard, the bill is proposed to allow group hunting of wild boar by 31 December 2018 and beyond the period from 1 October to the second Sunday of January referred to in Annex 4 to art. 54, para. 1 of the Law, including Wednesday. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry supports the Bill. In the subsequent discussion, MPs from the GERB parliamentary group supported the Bill, but raised a question about the use of the shot animals. The Ministry explained that hunting groups would be obliged to take samples of the shot animals that would be tested for the presence of the disease virus. Experts from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency are scheduled to train two people from each hunting party in relation to proper sampling for analysis, disposal of animal waste and others. The Ministry offered to inform the MPs on a regular basis how the shooting took place and to provide an information campaign for the measures it takes. The Movement for Rights and Freedoms group supported, in principle, the need for urgent action to prevent the occurrence of the disease and recommended that the Ministry provide safety measures for both hunters and people present for one reason or another in the forest. In addition, according to them, the change should be made in the body of the Law by extending the powers of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and providing for an opportunity, under certain circumstances and in the presence of the relevant opinions, to amend the time limits for hunting the game. In this way, competent authorities will be able to operate not only in the case in question but also in the event of other diseases. In this regard, the people's representative Alexander Sabanov recalled that such a proposal was in a previous bill which caused a serious negative reaction and was rejected by the plenary. Therefore, in order not to raise doubts about the purpose of the proposal among environmental organisations and the Bill to be delayed, importers have proposed the possibility of group hunting beyond the deadlines set by the Law to refer to a specific period of time. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 15 for the Wildlife Protection Act, No 854-01-63, submitted by the National Representative Aleksandar Sabanov and a group of MPs on 4 July 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act, No 854-01-63, submitted by the National Representative Alexander Sabanov and a group of MPs on 4 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. There are no reports from other National Assembly committees. I'm opening the debate on the bill. Here you go, Mr. Sabanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In relation to the aggravated epizootic situation in Europe with regard to African swine fever, urgent measures need to be taken to prevent the disease in Bulgaria. African swine fever is a highly contagious viral disease in domestic and feral pigs and occurs with high mortality, lack of treatment and lack of vaccine. Once inside a country, the disease has a significant negative effect on the trade, livelihood of pig farmers and the hunting farm. Its eradication is extremely difficult, and in feral pigs it may take years, therefore preventive measures and preparedness for early detection and emergency measures are the most effective measure to combat the disease and its control in order to protect the population of domestic pigs. Currently, despite the measures taken, the disease is widespread among feral pigs in Georgia, Armenia, Azerbaijan, Russia, Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova and in the following countries of the European Union, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania. The border territories with Romania are emerging as the most risky for penetration of the disease in Bulgaria, where in the last two weeks there have been dozens of new outbreaks, including wild pigs in the area of the town of Tulca, and from this week there are also in Constanta, which is quite close to the land border with Bulgaria. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has prepared two plans of strategic measures to prevent African swine fever and a plan of measures to be taken after the possible penetration of the disease on the territory of the country, one of the most urgent measures is the reduction of the density of the population of the wild boar in the Republic of Bulgaria. The baseline levels are at present too high: 1 In the event of an outbreak of African swine fever, in view of pigs with this population density, it is self-sufficient to maintain the circulation of the virus during contact between feral pigs. Therefore, the aim is to reduce the density of the population from acceptable levels from 0,3 to 0,5 per square kilometer. Such measures to reduce the population of game are adopted not only in countries where the disease is already spread. Currently, there are no cases of disease detected in Germany, but they are on high alert. Preventive measures include changes to the Federal Hunting Act, which gives the federal provinces the opportunity to determine exceptions for hunting activities during the breeding season even. It is envisaged to carry out more intensive hunting of individuals other than even those who have the right to hunt. In this regard, we are submitting this Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game. It is intended to extend the time limits for group hunting of wild boar beyond the time limits set out in Annex 4 to art. 54, para. 1 of ZLOD, allowing to be hunted grouply every Wednesday, Saturday and Sunday, and public holidays by the end of 2018, which would provide more than 120 thousand hunting trips, which is approximately Otherwise, the losses that the Ministry estimated could be incurred on the holding were more than 500 million. lv. I would like to say that last year we made the same proposal which, however, was not accepted. This time it is done in Transitional and final provisions such as imperative change, as an imperative text that will be dropped for next year so that we do not, of course, friction with green organisations. It's a serious disease that causes enormous damage. The Ministry of Agriculture is already making a explanatory campaign among hunters. In each hunting and fishing company, there is a visit in each area from the Food Safety Agency, which makes supposes, including giving free tubes for a sample of African plague, explaining how the entire manipulation will be carried out. The African plague sample is free. We hope for a good attitude and cooperative with the Food Safety Agency from the country of hunters in Bulgaria, so that if this disease appears, it can be found as quickly as possible. Separately, border areas are surrounded by an electronic shepherd. Currently, there is a procedure in which the territories are smoothed and are cleared of thorns, grass, so that this electronic shepherd can be placed, which we hope will further stop the pigs if they start crossing the border between Bulgaria and Romania. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has ordered that food from foreigners entering Bulgaria be seized at each checkpoint, as it became clear that a sample of African swine fever has been found in Romania even in one slaughterhouse, which in itself gives concerns that it can be imported into the country through food. I really hope that this bill will be supported by colleagues. The sooner we deal with this problem, the sooner we will enter and we will do these actions, which are recommended by the Ministry and adopted as a whole by the Council of Ministers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u64	Thank you, Mr. Sabanov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote for the first reading of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 854-01-63, submitted by Alexander Sabanov and a group of MPs on 4 July 2018. They voted 115 MPs: 108, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Sabanov, for procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, since there were no speeches, there are no proposals between first and second readings, I propose that we vote on the Draft at second reading now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u66	Thank you. I put to the vote Mr. Sabanov's proposal to move to a second reading vote on the bill just adopted at first reading. Vote 109 MPs: 102, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Who's gonna brief us on the second reading report? Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u67	"Development to amend and supplement the Law on the Hunting and Conservation of the Pollutants" § 1. Paragraph 13 shall be established in Transitional and Final Provisions. ...... 13............................ 13. Until 31 December 2018, group hunting for wild boar and beyond the time limit set out in point (a) shall be authorised. 3.2 of Annex 4 to art. 54, para. 1 of the Hunting and Conservation Act, including on Wednesday. Final provision § 2. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u68	Thank you. [[The President shall make details of the microphones away.]] Are there any speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] Please read the name of the Second Reading Law so that there is no doubt.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u69	supplier to amend and supplement the Wildlife Hunting and Conservation Act, No 854-01-63
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u70	Thank you. You reported § 1 and § 2. Are there any statements on the reading texts of the Law, texts for § 1 and § 2 of the Bill? I won't. We are voting on the title of the Law, the text of § 1, by importer and the text of § 2, by importer. They voted 121 MPs: 112 against 4, abstention 5. The proposal is adopted, and with this at second reading the Law on Hunting and Conservation of Game, No 854-01-63, submitted by Alexander Sabanov and a group of MPs on 4 July 2018. Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving to the next item on the agenda: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATION OF ECONOMIC ACTIONS RELATED TO OIL AND OIL PRODUCTS. With the report of the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling, Mr. Emil Dimitrov will introduce us. Mr. Dimitrov, wait until order is restored. [[Noise and lines.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats in the hall! We are about to hear the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. [[Noise.]] Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u71	Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, I inform you that the unacceptable proposals made in the Commission in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are reflected in the presented and published report for maximum transparency. Because according to art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 These proposals do not need to be put to the vote, I This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u72	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the title of the Bill. Vote 91 MPs: 77 against 4, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u73	"Chapter 1" "General provisions". The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u74	Are there any speeches? I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. We are voting on the name of Chapter 1 of the General Provisions. Vote 87 MPs: 72 against 5, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u75	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1 as in para. 2 the word "stability' is replaced by "security'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u76	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text of art. 1 by importer. Vote 82 MPs: 71 against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u77	Under art. 2 has a proposal from the MP Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Nikolay Tishev in art. 2, para. 1 the following additions are made: "1." In item H, at the end of the sentence is added over 30 cc. m. is equal to or greater than 100 m/s2. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 at the end of the sentence is added more than 3,5 tonnes. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the National Representative Todor Bajchev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 2 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 1: (a) t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." the storage of oil and petroleum products, including in tax warehouses and holdings of registered recipients within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses; (b) t. 3 s is out; c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) c) 2. in para. 2 the following amendments and additions are made: (a) t. 2 s is out; b) the current t. 3 becomes t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. c) create t. 3, 4 and 5: "3." the purchase, storage and use for own use of petroleum products by natural persons and sole traders, legal entities which charge only their own machinery and means of transport and do not sell products of oil origin; "4." the purchase, storage and use for own use of petroleum products by registered farmers; It's five o'clock. production and import of oil and products of oil origin. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u78	Excuse me, Mr. Dimitrov, there is a proposal from the MP Dragomir Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u79	It is in the order of art. 83 and not supported. It has been made in the Commission and is not supported by it. At the beginning, I announced that these proposals would not be read as per the Rules of Procedure. I've alerted all MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u80	I mean, this is the first case of unsupported, which will not be read. It hasn't been missed. We are listening to you now with the editorial of the Commission for Art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u81	Art. 2. (1) Within the meaning of this Law, economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products shall be: 1. wholesale trade in oil and petroleum products; 2. retail trade in oil and petroleum products; 3. storage of oil and petroleum products outside tax warehouses or warehouses of registered recipients within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses; 4. transport of oil and petroleum products; 5. filling bottles with liquefied petroleum gases (LPG) outside tax warehouses; 6. distribution of LPG bottles; 7. temporary storage and/or loading by a farmer registered under the Agricultural Support Act, of his own products of petroleum origin, outside tax warehouses or warehouses of registered recipients, within the meaning of the Law on excises and tax warehouses intended for the farmer's own economic activity which are not subject to subsequent sale. (2) The activities relating to: 1. exploration, exploration and extraction of oil and natural gas; 2. supplies according to the order of art. 24, para. 1, t. Art. 1 and Art. 1 26, para. 2 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses; 3. sales of liquefied-gas cylinders (LPG) by non-registered persons where they are carried out under a contract with a registered person under para. 1, t. 6; 4. the production of fuels from the processing of used tyres and plastic products; 5. the use of solid products of oil origin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u82	Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u83	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mr. Chairman! I would like to motivate the proposals which the President of the Commission read, Mr. Dimitrov, namely: the amendment that we are proposing, concerns this. 1 and change in the following order: "Save oil and petroleum products, including in tax warehouses and warehouses of registered recipients within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses.' The reasons for this proposal are as follows: The Law should also cover the conservation activities of oil and petroleum products, including in tax warehouses and warehouses of registered recipients within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. In other words, producers and importers should not be excluded from the Law, since, provided that all end-users are covered by the chain, they would ensure full transparency and equality and a competitive environment for the oil business entities. We also suggest a t. 3 to be removed and ct 4 et c. 6 go forward and become t. 3 et c. 5. ) (a.k.a. 4 I propose to create a new one, namely: "4." purchase, storage and use for own use of petroleum products by registered farmers. I think that from the scope of the Law, all end-users who do not carry out subsequent sales of petroleum products and use the purchased quantities only for their own use should be excluded, as those consumers are loading a technique that is stationary which is not possible to leave the farmyard or the relevant sites which cannot move on the Republican road network unless it is with a special traffic regime or with special authorisation. For all these entities, the regulations and procedures for the registration and reporting of these charges laid down in Ordinance No 18 of 2006 for the registration and reporting of sales in commercial premises through fiscal devices and the Value Added Tax Act are in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u84	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines to Mr. Baychev's statement? I won't. Mr. Tishev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I have tabled two changes between the first and second readings in art. 2, para. 1, p.m. 3 et c. 4. I'm going to read your motives now. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 We offer for storage over 30 cubic meters. In this way, we are creating a maximum allowable volume of fuel storages that are for own use, I repeat, for the own use of end-users and are not intended for subsequent sale. This regulates relations in some sectors such as agriculture, tourism, recycling and trade of ferrous metals, ports and port operators. What do I mean? In many places companies that need fuel have their own GMS bases and these are capacity up to 30, 40, up to 50 cc. m. These companies, unlike farmers, who also had such a problem, but with subsequent changes in the Law it is regulated, these companies buy fuel for their own needs by paying all taxes, VAT, excise duty and ecotax. I mean, there's not the main problem that the importers put in place to deal with smuggling. Rather, it is the opposite, we can talk about certain regulation with farmers, because indeed with them, when they purchase fuel, the state restores their excise duty when they use it for their agricultural equipment. But here, speaking of these end-users and companies, there must be a certain minimum amount to be excluded from the Law. In that spirit is my proposal. All I have to say is that for the first time I am present at the Commission, which was carried out in such a way, it was mentioned in the Commission that further 50 cubic metres are bets in the Law. m., but it was neglected to state that it was only farmers. And the second proposal I've made is in the next item. 4, namely: from the scope of the Law to remove the means of transport with load capacity up to 3,5 tonnes. In this way, we set maximum permissible capacity to go out of the scope of the Law. These are small vehicles or tanks that are used to charge non-road machinery. Note that I have linked this to the Car Transport Act, where freight vehicles up to 3.5 tonnes are neither subject to registration nor licensing. The Commission has again explained that since Bulgaria was a party to the ADR Convention, we are obliged to apply this legislation to all means of transport that pay for the transport of goods. Only one clarification " ADR Convention" is the Convention on the International Transport of Dangerous Goods and Bulgaria is indeed a country. Here we are talking about the internal transport of dangerous goods and about them there is a certain section right in the Car Transport Act that regulates it. When it comes to the transport of own fuel, I think that we should comply with the Road Transport Act and these small means of transport, i.e. small tanks up to 3.5 tonnes, be excluded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines? Mr. Dimitrov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You started from one part, you went to another part throughout the Law. All that can be resolved was for farmers, or for others, was allowed. Farmers have the opportunity to store tanks up to 50 cubic metres. m. in its own internal sites. Not 5, 10, 15, 20, 50. Because a report by the Ministry of Finance found that 250 tanks of BDZ were sold and some of these tanks were held by farmers. If we had entered a smaller cube, it would appear that someone who invested money would not be able to use their object. We've authorized the maximum possible object. For all other sites, for gas stations there are no restrictions on the volumes of the gas stations can store as many as they want. That's one point at a time. With regard to the transport of dangerous goods. Foreigners, by driving in Bulgaria, do you think our internal rules comply with or the European rules to which we are a country? The permit for fuels is up to a ton of diesel. We've adopted it, authorised it, and it's out of the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u88	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u89	In relation to foreigners who drive in Bulgaria, note that everyone, whether he is a citizen of the European Union or not, respects the laws of Bulgaria. If it is in the territory of Bulgaria, it cannot go beyond this range. Regarding the storage of fuels in small GSM storage sites, I will tell you that if we accept this article this way, we are creating a huge problem, for example, for port operators and ports. They've got car cranes, they've got terminal motorists, they've got all kinds of equipment, they've got fadroms that work with diesel. It's not that they can't handle it, but the restrictions we're putting on them are three million or one million capital that they have to register, respectively, 500 thousand. lv. collateral is an extremely distressing condition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u90	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposals for the text of § 2. Firstly, the proposals not supported by the Commission. The first of these is the MP Nikolai Tishev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 94 MPs: 32, Against 14, abstention 48. The offer is not accepted. The next unsupported proposal by the Commission is by the MP Todor Bajchev. They voted 96 MPs: 23, against 18, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the text of art. 2 in the version of the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u91	Vote 94 MPs: 80 against 14, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u92	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u93	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 3 which the Commission supports. Vote 91 MPs: 76 against 6, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u94	Proposal by the National Representative Valentin Nikolov for art. 4 made in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u95	Christian Mitev?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u96	It is in the order of art. 83 and not adopted by the Commission. At first, I announced that the unacceptable would not read them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u97	They must be read according to procedure, Mr. Dimitrov. You should read the proposals unsupported by the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u98	Yes, Madam President. Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 t. 1, 2 and 3 drop out, and so on. 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11 become t. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8. 2. In para. 2: (a) t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." carry out checks to establish the fulfilment of the requirements of the law; (b) Point 4 shall be deleted. The Commission does not support the proposal. A proposal of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. (1) The administrative regulation of economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products shall be carried out by the Minister of Finance, who shall: 1. issue orders for: (a) registration or motivated refusal; (b) an entry of a change in the circumstances under which the registration certificate has been issued; (c) deletion of registration, respectively nullification of the issued certificate; 2. organise the control of Chapter Two; 3. organise the establishment, maintenance and storage of an electronic medium of a public register of registered persons; 4. organize publication on the website of the Ministry of Finance of Information on the necessary documents for registration; 5. determine the form and procedure for providing information under this law; 6. interact with other central and local executive bodies; 7. organize the administration of personal data under the Personal Data Protection Act; 8. organise the keeping of the documentation concerning applications for registration and of registered persons submitted, for a period of not less than 10 years from the date of issue of the registration certificate; 9. validate the samples of documents under this law, including the register under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. (2) For the performance of the functions under para. 1 The Minister of Finance shall be assisted by a specialised unit of the National Revenue Agency, which shall carry out the controls under Chapter Two, by: 1. adopt and examine the applications submitted and the documents attached thereto; 2. carry out checks on implementing documents and compliance with the conditions for registration under this law; 3. perform checks on the site where activity under art. 2 establishing the fulfilment of the requirements of the law when submitting an application for registration to carry out an activity under art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 4. draw up acts establishing administrative infringements in the cases provided for in this law; 5. perform the administrative and technical service of the Minister of Finance's activities under this law; 6. lead the register under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1. (3) The individual administrative acts of the Minister of Finance issued under this Law shall be subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. (4) The Minister of Finance shall issue a decree setting out the terms and conditions for keeping the register under art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u99	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Statements? Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u100	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I respect the arguments of the working group, which has proposed that the Ministry of Finance be the administrative authority to exercise control over this law, but I have arguments and I think it is right that this should be carried out by the Ministry of Economy for several reasons. First, for two years, the Ministry of Economy has worked on this law. It has an overview of the administrative activity carried out in relation to this law. I believe that this is not like the Ministry of Finance, respectively, and the National Revenue Agency, which have quite other functions in terms of the collection of indirect and direct taxes. For this reason, I am proposing, as I have therefore done in the Commission: in the proposed version by the Commission, that the Minister of Finance be replaced by the Minister of Economy. If accepted, the Minister of Finance shall be deemed to be replaced by the Minister of Economy in relation to the functions of the registered production. My suggestion is, if accepted, to do so in art. 4, so be it until the end of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u101	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Here's a line, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u102	Thank you, Madam President. I fully share the proposal made by Mr. Nikolov. We commented in the Commission that when we established which minister to be, from this point on, we will replace the Minister of Finance with the Minister of Economy in all the following texts respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u103	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. A hole? I won't. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Mitev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, in practice in art. 4 what is proposed in the final version of the Commission, namely the Minister of Economy, according to the proposed proposal already adopted by my colleague Nikolov, to issue orders for registration or reasoned refusal, will not read the text further, suggests an unreserved, one licensing procedure which is in absolute conflict with the principles and objectives of the Law on the limitation of administrative regulation and administrative control of business, which implies not the introduction of licensing, but of registration regimes. This regime is not necessary in this case. It does not achieve nor is it in any way required by the objectives and principles of lightening the grey sector in the fuel trade. If something needs to be introduced and remains, we should have a purely record-making process -- something that, however, will not happen with the so-defined texts, so we at NFSB will not support this text and the introduction of licensing and not of a register. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u105	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. I shall put to the vote, first, the proposal not supported by the Commission by the National Representative Christian Mitev and a group of MPs, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2. Please vote. They voted 96 MPs: 15 against 26, abstention 55. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of the National Representative Valentin Nikolov in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 under the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, which the Commission has not supported, but Mr. Nikolov resumed his proposal from the stands. Vote 98 MPs: 92 against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please, Mr. Dimitrov, make an explanation of the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u106	To be clear, I will read the text from the Law with the proposals you have already adopted for the Ministry of Economy. It's about al. 2 and I will read only it, and everywhere the Minister of Finance is replaced by the Minister of Economics and in para. 2: For the performance of the functions under para. 1 The Minister of Economy shall be assisted by a specialised unit which shall carry out the controls under Chapter 2 of this Law, such as:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u107	Thank you. We will also vote on this editorial amendment of Mr. Dimitrov, which he has now made, and then the entire text. [[Noise and lines.]] We are currently voting for Mr. Dimitrov's editorial amendment. 90 MPs voted: 87, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Now we vote art. 4 by importer with the corresponding amendment made by Mr. Dimitrov just now. Please vote. They voted 91 MPs: 81, against 10, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u108	Under art. A proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. (1) For cooperation between state authorities and persons engaged in economic activities relating to oil and petroleum products, an advisory council shall be established with the Minister of Energy. (2) The Advisory Council shall be a consultative body involving one representative of the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the Ministry of Environment and Waters, the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Interior and the Executive Agency of Railway Administration, the Directorate General of Fire Safety and Protection of the Population. 2, para. 1. (3) The Minister of Energy or his Deputy Minister shall be the Chairman of the Advisory Council. (4) The organisation-technical assistance to the work of the Advisory Council shall be carried out by the Administration of the Ministry of Energy. (5) The organisation of work and the composition of the Advisory Council shall be determined by rules issued by the Minister of Energy. The name composition of the Advisory Council shall be determined by order of the Minister of Energy on a proposal from the heads of the relevant departments, respectively, of the representative branch organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u109	Statements? Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u110	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, in fact, my proposal is similar to my proposal under art. 4. I believe that, as an importer, this consultative body should be with the Minister of Economy because of the fact that he will first administer the process, he should also coordinate all ministries and bodies which are described in art. 5. I'm making an offer in art. 5 The Minister of Energy shall be replaced by the Minister of Economy as an importer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u111	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the editorial that Mr. Nikolov made for art. 5 Wherever the Minister of Energy is to be replaced by the Minister of Economy. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on art. The text of the importer with the correction made. They voted 93 MPs: 83, against 2, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. I would like to make an announcement: honourable Members, Professor Stoimenova will be here at 1:00 to make the hearing procedure, so please prepare yourself. [[Noise and lines.]] One o'clock! We're continuing on the bill. Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u112	Madam President, honourable Members! My negative vote is because of the way we make the laws. Excuse me, we have replaced everywhere the Minister of Energy with the Minister of Economy. However, there is one paragraph left for this Advisory Council, it will be served by the Ministry of Energy. In principle, the amendments voted at second reading in a law lead to this, and in the previous article we voted something very interesting. There was a one-year period of registration, but if the Minister of Economy issues a refusal, are the documents kept for a one-year period? We're missing small things that... I don't like this creation of laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u113	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Let's move on to the next term.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u114	Thank you, Madam President. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6 as in para. 1 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." propose to improve the joint work of the control bodies on the enforcement of the law;
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u115	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the supported text of the importer for art. 6 with the corresponding change in para. 1, t. 2. Vote 92 MPs: 79 against 4, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u116	? Chapter two???????? The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two. Section I "General conditions for registration". The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Section I.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u117	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of Chapter 2 and the name of Section I, supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 84 against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u118	Under art. 7 "A proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. (1) To be registered for activity under art. 2, para. 1, each person shall fulfil the following conditions: 1. to be a trader registered under the Commercial Law, under the Co-operatives Act or under the law of another Member State of the European Union, or a State party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area, or to be a farmer registered under the Agricultural Assistance Act, which operates under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7); 2. is not in insolvency or liquidation proceedings; 3. shall not be terminated with registration under Article 3. 176 of the Value Added Tax Act; 4. sole owner, majority owners of capital, managers, prosecutors, members of the management or supervision bodies of the person: (a) have not been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature; (b) they were not or were not members of a management or control body or unlimited liability partners in a company terminated due to insolvency if they remained unsatisfied creditors; (c) they are not placed under full or restricted restraint; (d) were not the owners or members of management or supervisory bodies of a company which, at the time of the application for registration and/or in the previous year, had unfulfilled obligations to establish or store its individually defined stock levels under the Oil and Oil Stocks Act established by an effective criminal decree; 5. there are no obligations for taxes and compulsory social contributions, except for non-compliance obligations, as well as deferred, deferred or secured obligations; 6. there are no outstanding obligations to establish or store its individually determined levels of stocks under the Oil and Oil Stocks Act established by an effective criminal decree unless they are paid at the time of submission of the application. (2) To be registered for activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7, each person must also meet the following conditions: 1. to be registered as a farmer under the Law on support for farmers and 2. has its own, hired and/or used on another legal basis agricultural equipment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! I have a question for the proposers. Mr. Emil Dimitrov proposes that farmers have their own, hired or used on another legal basis agricultural equipment with the explicit condition that it should be registered under the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment. Ms. Taneva's proposal is without registration. In the final text proposed: to have its own, hired or using another legal basis, agricultural equipment means that it may not be registered, under the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment? [[Reply by MP Desislava Taneva.]] That's what it looks like. We may have a technique, but it may not be registered and they will still have reason to be in the hypothesis of being registered. My question is: why do we refuse to register agricultural equipment under the Law?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u120	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u121	Thank you, Madam President. A number of meetings have been held, a number of amendments have been made, it is the Law on Fuels and Oils, not for farmers. Nevertheless, it has also become a Law that legalises farmers and has made a number of administrative reliefs only for farmers, including appliances unsolved for years to now. During the meetings held in different formats, they were committed, with all commitments being fulfilled unconditionally, including the extended interpretation of the term "Agriculture equipment'. There's another unregistered one, and there's auxiliary equipment, aggregates, pumps, water systems and so on. We've united around a text that gives a much wider concept than the one that's only registered. I would ask that we do not stress in this direction, we have done enough. Everything they asked for was done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Second line? I can't see. A hole? There won't be. Any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 7 on the Commission report. They voted 115 MPs: 96, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u123	Section II - Special conditions for registration. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Section II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u124	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the name of Section II, which the Commission supports. Vote 96 MPs: 87, against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u125	Under art. 8 has a proposal from the MP Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Todor Baychev in art. 8 the following amendments and additions are made: "1." in para 1, paragraph 1 is (a) t. 1 and the expression. "3 000 000 (three million) " in its two uses is replaced by "5000 (five thousand) ". (b) t. Two out. 2. in para. 3 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." own or leased oil storage vessels and/or petroleum products with a minimum design capacity of each vessel 10 m3 (except bio-component storage vessels and additives for improving fuel quality), and the minimum capacity of the warehouse should be 100 m3 and the storage capacity of the storage facility should be 100 m3; The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1, b. b., b., and does not support the proposal in the rest of it. Proposal by the National Representative Martin Tinchev, made in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u126	Christian Mitev's proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u127	They are in the order of art. 83.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u128	Read them. We usually read them about the transcript, even if they're under art. 83.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u129	Proposal of the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the I'm sorry, I'm sorry. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 1, al. 2, p. 1 and 2, para. 3, p. 1 et c. 2, para. 5, t. 1 et c. 3, para. 6, p. 1 et c. Three down. 2. In para. 2 t. 3 is amended as follows: "3." The object from which the activity is to be carried out should be permanently attached to an immovable property and comply with the requirements for a structure in the territory and construction for the object of loading of petroleum products operating at the time of its entry into service. The fulfilment of this requirement shall be established for each individual site and certified by documents issued by the National Construction Control Directorate or by property documents certifying the purpose. 3. In para. 5, t. 2 after the end of the sentence is added...... at the time of its entry into service...................................................................................................................... 4. In para. 6, p. 2 and the expression "sixteen thousand" (ten thousand) is replaced by "1000" (thousand) and the words after the abbreviation "LPG" are dropped. 5. The creation of para. 9 "In case of a possible creation of a new t. 8 in para. 1 of art. 2: Nine. To be registered for activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 8 each person must have a registration under Regulation No H-18 of 13 December 2006 for registration and reporting of sales in the commercial premises through fiscal devices. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly........................................................................................... 8 to create a new para. 8 containing the following content: For carrying out activities under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7 each person: (a) a large enterprise shall comply with the special conditions under para. 1; (b) a micro, small and medium-sized enterprise shall comply with the special conditions under para. 2, p. 1 et c. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. (1) To be registered for activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 1 each person must have a statutory capital of not less than BGN 1 000 000, and for a person who by law has no capital of not less than BGN 1 000 000 to have assets of not less than BGN 1 000 000. (2) To be registered for activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 2, each person must meet the following special conditions: 1. to have a statutory capital of not less than 20 000 BGN, but for a person who by law has no capital of not less than 20 000 BGN. for each object; 2. the object from which the activity is to be carried out shall: (a) is permanently attached to an immovable property; and (b) comply with the requirements of the Construction Act in the territory of an oil and petroleum products loading facility; c) meets the conditions of art. 118, para. 6 of the Law on Value Added Tax, which is established in an official order by the National Revenue Agency; 3. the fulfilment of the conditions under point 3. 2 (a) and (b) shall be established for each individual site and certified by the Directorate for National and Construction Control. The requirement of t. 2 point (b) shall not apply to an internal construction site serving a first and second category, or to a carrier holding a licence to carry passengers or goods in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, or having a licence to carry out an international carriage of passengers or goods, a Community licence, as well as to persons carrying out waste treatment activities under the Waste Management Act. (3) To be registered for activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 3 each person must meet the following special conditions: 1. to have paid up statutory capital of not less than BGN 1 000 000, but for a person who by law has no capital to have assets of not less than BGN 1 000 000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. have own or leased liquefied petroleum gas storage vessels (LPGs) with a minimum capacity of 50 m3 or have their own or leased oil storage vessels and/or petroleum products with a minimum design capacity of each vessel of 50 m3, with the exception of biocomponent storage vessels and additives to improve fuel quality, with the minimum capacity of the warehouse being 1000 m3; 3. the storage site shall be permanently attached to real estate and comply with the requirements of the Law on Device in the Area. The fulfilment of this requirement shall be established for each individual site and certified by the Directorate for National and Construction Control; 4. the activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 3 is implemented only in objects: (a) which are situated in or occupied by persons premises and/or areas for carrying out the activities eligible for security and control as defined in point (a). 5; (b) in which measuring and control devices are installed to enable the control of the incoming, stored and removed from the establishment of oil and/or petroleum products complying with the requirements of the Measurement Act; (c) using automated reporting systems enabling real-time control of oil and/or petroleum products, including by their owner's identification; (d) for which the persons, individually and on their own account, have granted internet access to the customs authorities and revenue bodies of the National Revenue Agency to the reporting systems referred to in point (c); (e) using measuring instruments complying with the requirements of the Measurement Act; 5. storage site: (a) is separate, and the premises and facilities are not directly related to those outside; (b) has physical security or signalling equipment; (c) all exterior windows, gates and fences shall be provided with locking devices; (d) the premises are appropriately designated by reference to the type of activities carried out at the site; (e) meet the specific regulatory requirements for their operation, including fire safety regulations and regulations; (f) the vessels and tanks at the site shall have a permanent identification and indication on them of the total capacity and the trade name of the product. 6. hold a licence to carry out the activity where required by another law. (4) To be registered for activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 4 each person must meet the following special conditions: 1. for traffic activity: the requirements of the Law on Road Transport and the Law on Measurements, which is certified by the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration and the Bulgarian Institute of Metrology; 2. for rail transport activity: the requirements of the Railway Transport Act, which is certified by the Railway Administration Executive Agency. (5) For carrying out activities under art. 2, para. 1, t. 5 each person must meet the following special conditions: 1. to have a statutory capital of not less than 20 000 BGN, but for a person who by law has no capital of not less than 20 000 BGN.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. the object from which the activity is to be carried out should be permanently attached to an immovable property and comply with the requirements of the Construction Act in the territory for an oil and petroleum products loading site. (6) For carrying out activities under art. 2, para. 1, t. 6 each person shall fulfil the following special conditions: 1. to have paid-up statutory capital of not less than 20 thousand. BGN, but for a person who by law has no capital to have assets of not less than 20 thousand. lv.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. have a minimum of 10,000 (10,000) own LPG storage bottles; 3. in the event that the person is engaged in the distribution of liquid liquefied gas LPG, he shall provide a contract for filling of liquefied petroleum gas cylinders (LPG) with a person authorised to manage a tax warehouse within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses in which the filling is carried out. (7) To be registered for activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7 each person must meet the following special conditions: 1. have its own, leased or used on another legal basis vessels and/or oil storage tanks and products of oil origin with a total capacity of not more than 50 m3; 2. the vessels and/or storage tanks for oil and petroleum products are located on a property owned, leased or otherwise used by the farmer; 3. the supply of products of petroleum origin to carry out the activity of the farmer may only be made from premises to persons under art. 2, para. 1, t. 1 and 3, respectively, from tax warehouses or warehouses of registered recipients within the meaning of the Law on excises and tax warehouses, each action shall be reflected in a special register according to a template defined by the ordinance under art. 4, para. 4 marking the date of loading, the quantity, the object from which it was delivered and the identification of the vehicle by which it was transported; 4. the vessels and/or oil storage tanks and products of oil origin are fitted with means to measure the quantities derived from them, the same being reflected in the special register under point 4. 3 entering the date of loading, quantity and registration of the agricultural equipment which is loaded; 5. when loading agricultural equipment outside the holding, transport of oil and products of petroleum origin, loaded from an establishment of art. 2, para. 1, t. 7 to 1000 litres, with own, rented or used on another legal basis, and the transport vessels must meet the conditions for fire safety. The quantities of oil and petroleum products shall be reflected in the special register referred to in paragraph 1. 3 in which the date of loading, quantity and registration of the vehicle with which the transport is carried out and the locality and/or places in the land in which it is transported. The quantity of oil and petroleum products transported shall be accompanied by a printout from the register; 6. the vessels and/or storage tanks comply with the fire safety standards and rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u131	Madam President, honourable Members of the Parliament, honourable President of the Commission, honourable Members! Firstly, before I make a proposal for an amendment to our proposed text by the Commission, I would like to say that, in the course of the debates on the Bill we are currently looking at, the Commission, its President and the MPs have complied with the demands of the agricultural community. The final texts that are given in the version are, in fact, fully in line with what has been communicated with agricultural industry organisations in the country, for which I am grateful to the President and colleagues of the Commission for their understanding. I am proposing the following version: in the final version of the text that the President has read, in particular. 2, para. Article 7 8 after the word "Professor" the property referred to in the declaration referred to in Article 8 shall be added. 17, para. 2, p. Article 3 (a) or (b) of the final version of art. 8, para. 7, p. 2 to be done: the vessels and/or oil storage tanks and products of petroleum origin are located on a property which is own, leased or otherwise enjoyed by the farmer or on a property which is indicated in the declaration under art. 17, para. 2, p. 3.... where I will again make a proposal for editing. We are making this editorial proposal on the fact that the agricultural sites in question are largely located in the former farmyards of the TTZS, where, in most of them or in a significant part, the status of the land and the land is still unresolved to these sites. The proposal is made in order to cover all farmers and is borrowed from such a text in another regulation, albeit a regulation of the Ministry of Finance concerning information which the same holders submit to the NRA. Thank you. [[Previouss the written text.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u132	Thank you. - What's the line? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u133	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Following the debates held Thursday at the Commission meeting, we proposed in art. 8, para. 1 and everywhere in the Law to drop the requests introduced for capital at all, because we cannot introduce with this law at the same time two contrary requirements to all those who deal with trade, storage, transport and so on the These are diametrically different things, leading to aggravation of business. Moreover, the capital texts put new conditions for market access and are in complete conflict with the requirements of Directive 2006/123 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 12 December 2006 on services in the internal market and Directive 2015/1535, which establishes a procedure for providing information in the field of technical parameters and rules on information society services. It was because of the risk of having such a criminal procedure that we wanted the capital requirement to be dropped everywhere in the Law. Apart from that, the delivered opinion of the Ministry of Interior, signed by Deputy Minister Krasimir Tzipov, quotes, quote, "The specified special conditions for the registration of persons for carrying out activities under this law, specifically in the defined amounts for capital or assets and the imposition of pre-financing, favouring the domination of the market of a small number of economic entities. That is, we pave the way for certain economic entities to operate on this market by eliminating the small ones from it and creating an absolutely real prerequisite for breaking the rules of free and fair competition throughout the Union. That is why we hold the capital requirement to fall. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u134	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Are there lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u135	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, I would like to motivate the proposals I have made for amendments to the bill, namely in art. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. In its two parts to be replaced everywhere by..5 thousand. The reason is the introduction of a higher but at the same time accessible threshold in the statutory capital of the companies in the oil sector, which will ensure a level playing field between players on the market who wish to trade wholesale oil and petroleum products, will guarantee equal conditions and competitive environment. I would like to stress that years ago when companies were registered, there was a requirement for statutory capital of 5,000. BGN, which was removed for the purpose of attracting new investments, of players in the market and also equality. On the other hand, I would like to. Two down. It's about education and internship. It would be good if specialized knowledge and specialized education were required, but since only a higher education is indicated, I believe that in this case, if a teacher had practiced for five years, he would indeed become a better teacher, but not a better fuel trader. I believe that this requirement makes the market excessively complicated. I would also like to give reasons for this. 3, that is to say, that own or leased oil storage vessels and/or petroleum products are available, and that my reasons are: the reduction of the capacity of each vessel and the total volume of the warehouse is made only in the protection of small and medium-sized warehousekeepers. It should not be allowed to eliminate them from business in favour of large companies producers and importers who have a storage obligation under the State Reserve Act and wartime stocks. The next point I would like to address is the creation of a new item. 4 for the persons referred to in art. 2, para. 1, t. BGN 1 000 for each site. Given that any sale by a retailer, a gas station is reported in real time and this information is entered into the National Revenue Agency, it is necessary to secure an obligation arising from some average volume of sales for example 1000 litres or 1000 leva. The above threshold of the amount of collateral should necessarily be removed as it creates a prerequisite for favouring large traders who have 25 or more service stations and would therefore create unfair competition. This would put the smaller players on the market at a disadvantage. I also propose for the faces of art. 2, para. 1, t. 7... per 1000 BGN. per 1000 litres, calculated on an average monthly basis, produced or imported quantity of oil or petroleum products in the previous calendar year. My motives are that producers and importers of oil and petroleum products should not be an exception to the Law. Thus, the comprehensiveness of the law would guarantee equality and transparency in any segment of the oil products business in the country from the emergence of every liter of fuel in Bulgaria to its final consumption. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Your proposal for dropping education, which coincided with Mr. Tinchev's proposal not only on this point, but everywhere where we have education and a requirement for service, was accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u138	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Will there be a hole? No. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, we are voting on the unsupported proposals of the National Representative Todor Bajchev. One, but the rest are not supported. They voted 82 MPs: 25, against 18, abstention 39. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 75 MPs: 17 against 22, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Dragomir Stoinev, which the Commission does not support. They voted 84 MPs: 19 against 30, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the proposal of the MP Desislava Taneva, art. 8, para. 7, p. 2 shall have the following addition: at the end of the legal basis of the agricultural holding, the sentence shall continue on the property indicated in the declaration referred to in art. 17, para. 2, p. 3.................................................................................. Please vote. Vote 80 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. And now I'm putting to the vote the editorial of art. 8 on the Commission's report on the editorial amendment that we have just voted on. Vote 82 MPs: 74 against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, an exhibition of two artists for which Bulgaria and France are fate and inspiration will be opened at the Club of the National Representative. Milena Joic is a Bulgarian who gave much of her life to France, and Anne de Colbert-Christoforov, whose life and destiny bind her to Bulgaria. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Thirty-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u139	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing our work. I ask the Quaestors to invite the MPs. We are in second-reading mode. There will be a lot of votes. Dear Mr. Dimitrov, come in. Take your place.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u140	Thank you, Madam President. "Department III..................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section III.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u141	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of Section III. Vote 64 MPs: for 63, against no, abstention 1. [[Noise and lines.]] The offer is not accepted. Is there a proposal to re-vote?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u142	Please, Madam President, re-vote. We couldn't vote. As you can see, I just walked in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u143	That's right, you couldn't. Please vote now. We're going over the name of Section III. Vote 69 MPs: for 67, not against, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u144	Under art. 9 has a proposal from the MP Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 9. Art. 9. (1) Persons engaged in economic activities related to oil and petroleum products shall, upon application for registration, provide collateral, except for the activities under art. 2, para. 1, t. 4 and 7. (2) The security shall serve to fulfil outstanding obligations arising under this law, the Oil and Oil Stocks Act, the Atmospheric Air Cleanse Act, the excise and tax warehouses Act and the Value Added Tax Act, with the exception of the obligations for which collateral has been provided on another legal basis.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u145	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for the editorial of art. 9, just read by the President of the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u146	Madam President, if I may, by procedure, please. Since you have the authority to ask one of the Quaestors to go and ask colleagues who have not now understood that the meeting has begun, to invite them to come to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u147	I ask the Quaestors to invite again those who have not heard and understood that the meeting has begun.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u148	Thank you, dear lady. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10: Art. 10. (1) The guarantee under art. 9, para. 1 can be established with a deposit in money or unconditional and irrevocable bank guarantee. When providing collateral in money, the person shall deposit the collateral in Bulgarian levs on account of the Ministry of Economy. (2) When providing a guarantee in a guarantee, the bank shall unconditionally and irrevocably pay at the first written request of the Minister of Economy the amount indicated in the request up to the amount of the guarantee. (3) The period of validity of the security shall not be less than one year and six months, calculated from the date of submission of the application under art. 17, para. 1. (4) Within 14 days before the expiry of the term under para. 3, the registered person is obliged to provide a new guarantee. The amount of the new collateral shall be determined according to art. 11. (5) No interest shall be due on the collateral established with a deposit in money. (6) The model of the bank guarantee shall be validated by the ordinance under art. 4, para. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u149	Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall proceed to a vote on the text of art. 10 in the version of the Commission. Vote 86 MPs: 81 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u150	Under art. 11 has a proposal from the National Representative Todor Baychev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11, para. 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. 1.. drop out; 2. the current t. 2 becomes t. 1 and amended as follows: "1." for the persons referred to in art. 2, para. 1, t. 2 BGN 1000 for each site; BGN 1000 for each site; BGN 1000 for each site; BGN 1000 for each site; BGN 1000 for each site; BGN 1000 for 3. t. 3 s is out; 4. current t. 4 and 5 are respectively t. 2 and 3; 5. A new item is created. 4. "4." for the persons referred to in art. 2, para. 1, t. 5 per 1000 BGN per 1000 L, calculated on the basis of the monthly average quantity of oil or petroleum products produced or imported in the previous calendar year. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 3 and does not support the proposal referred to in points 1, 2, 4 and 5. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 11: Art. 11. The amount of the security shall be subject to the economic activities carried out by persons relating to oil and petroleum products for which the person applies for registration: 1. for the persons referred to in Article 1. 2, para. 1, t. 1 et c. 500,000 leva.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. for the persons referred to in art. 2, para. 1, t. BGN 2 000 for each retail outlet; 3. for the persons referred to in art. 2, para. 1, t. BGN 20.000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. for persons under art. 2, para. 1, t. BGN 100,000
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u151	Thank you. I shall open the deliberations under art. 11. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u152	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! As you know, we are currently looking at Section III. We in the Commission have requested that these collateral be reduced or possibly dropped. I'll show you why we want this and what our motives are. These collaterals, which are provided for in this bill, are without justification, as the text under art. 9, para. 2 provides for the guarantee to be used to fulfil outstanding, required obligations arising under this law or under other, multiple laws. It's like you guys go get your driver's license and enter 1,000 levs. as a security measure. [[Laughter]] Separately from this article. 7, para. 5 provides a general condition for registration, namely lack of any obligations prior to the moment of registration. Therefore, such registration may not have it in the event of incurred obligations or the lien that is required is for future, possibly arising such obligations. Under this law, obligations can only be required for penalties imposed which arose for infringement at the time of the operation. It is unacceptable for the security to be imposed for future sanctions even before registration is allowed, i.e. the entity, the trader is not yet admitted to the market, and at the same time it is requested a safeguard measure. Apart from that, I would like to introduce you to a part of the opinion of the Minister of Economy, who says: "Introduction of a requirement to provide collateral by any person registered under the Law could constitute a financial burden which would in turn prevent the activity of those entities subject to registration under this Law. " I would also like to introduce you to a conclusion made in Minister Goranov's report, which reads: I will continue with Minister Goranov's statement: This is a violation of EU law and can lead to the opening of a criminal procedure against the Republic of Bulgaria. This is Minister Goranov's conclusion. It should also be noted that there is a procedure for Bulgaria in connection with the imposed collateral under art. 176 of the VAT Act. According to the European Commission, at this stage these collateral claims are unlawful. The introduction of such collateral into this law would be the basis for an absolutely new procedure. By the way, the young have already submitted this request for a ruling to the Commission and I sincerely hope that very soon in this House we will be able to prove the right of our claims after we have received the procedure and actions imposed on our country by the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u153	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u154	Thank you, Madam President. I will try to be brief and not answer to Mr. Apostolov, but to introduce my colleagues in the Chamber. This bill is by the Ministry of Economic Affairs of the same economic minister, and if it had not been for the proposal of Mr. Martin Tinchev from GERB and colleague Bajchev from BSP, half of the things would not have happened. I mean, we've reduced the minister's estimated size from three million to one million. In the gas market, we cut the collateral from 200 thousand to 20 thousand times. We canceled the education, canceled the work experience and a number of other things that we reduced from the legislation introduced by the Ministry of Economy which passed through me, so we have complied. With regard to the Minister of Finance: keep the smallest, as far as I know, the procedure is right against his law. I guess there's experience, but when we keep the youngest, maybe we should remove all the cash registers that we've entered at the youngest, and the coffee machines, or when we type in cash registers with fiscal memory and introduce them everywhere, we don't care about small or large, the important thing is to account for them. The moment we want to register fuel traders, where every 2 BGN, 1 BGN. is for the state and from this list, which you give me to small traders 381 - 117 of them owe 270 million to the state. Why are there VAT companies and why can't we get our money together? That's the way we can put them together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u155	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u156	Dear colleagues! Mr. Dimitrov, really what you said about the proposals of Timchev and BSP, has offended me a little because with my colleague Christian Mitev in the Commission on the basis of our Rules of Art. 83 We made over 20 proposals and deliberately did not duplicate the proposals made by BSP. We also had them as suggestions, and there was no point in duplicateing them. Apart from that, you are mixing capital and collateral, because what we accepted as a BSP proposal was for a capital reduction, and we are talking and we are in Section III. The fact that the state has money to raise is not the subject of this law. Clear are the subjects who owe their money. Do they, by having precautionary measures, amount to those tens or hundreds of millions that the state has to collect? There are mechanisms, levers, the state knows who the debtors are, to take the necessary action. If I have some kind of criminal act, they find a way to take my money, so if the state doesn't want to take that money, I guess it has some other interests. We must not mix what you have said here in the Chamber of Commerce with the insurance measures and proceedings that apply in this chapter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u157	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. First, I will put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Todor Bajchev, not supported by the Commission. These are points 1, 2, 4 and 5 in art. 11. They voted 99 MPs: 17 against 35, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 11. Vote 101 MPs: 90 against 6, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u158	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12: Art. 12. In the event of a change of circumstances relevant for determining the amount of collateral, the person shall provide a new guarantee and submit a new application within 7 days prior to the change in accordance with art. 15, para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u159	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's version of art. 12. Vote 92 MPs: 85 against 4, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u160	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u161	Like the words...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u162	No, that's not it. [[Definitions aside from microphones.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u163	It has to be read again. Please read it as recorded in the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u164	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13 such as the words "the Minister of Economy" are replaced by "the Minister of Finance" and everywhere the words "the Minister of Economy" are replaced by "the Minister of Finance."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u165	Thank you. Are there any speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u166	Allow me a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u167	You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u168	Madam President, at the beginning of the review of the bill Mr. Valentin Nikolov made a proposal which the National Assembly adopted and the entire address regarding registration and the structure that will assist the Minister of Finance went from the Minister of Economy to the Minister of Economy. We have taken the view that all subsequent texts will be in line with what has already been made and adopted, and wherever the Minister of Finance has been, we read "the Minister of Economy" in order to remain this text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u169	However, dear Mr. Dimitrov, the opinion of the Legal Directorate is that the texts should be read. Thank you for the procedure. We are voting the just-read version of art. 13 in the version of the Commission. [[Definitions aside from microphones.]] 99 MPs voted: 12, against 71, abstentioned 16. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the import text. Voted 103 MPs: 93 against 6, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u170	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14: Art. 14. (1) Where there is an outstanding obligation under art. 9, para. 2 at the request of the relevant state authority which has established the claims on the ones referred to in art. 9, para. 2 regulations, the Minister of Economy shall order the specialized unit under art. 4, para. 2 to take the necessary steps to absorb the collateral. Easing may also take place before the entry into force of the act to be implemented when its prior execution is permitted. (2) The order for the absorption of the collateral under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 4, para. 4. (3) The obligations provided for under this law shall be transferred to a public contractor in the order of the Tax and Insurance Procedure Code or to a judicial contractor under the Civil Procedure Code. (4) In the event of the absorption of the collateral, in whole or in part, and in the case of the conditions for registration under this law, the person shall provide a new security within 14 days of its absorption. The new collateral is in the size of art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u171	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for the editorial of art. 14, which Mr. Dimitrov just read. They voted 102 MPs: for 94, against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u172	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer for art. 15 and offers para. 1 and 2 to be amended as follows: At the request of the registered person, provided and entered collateral may be replaced by equivalent collateral of another kind, according to art. 10. (2) The person shall provide the new type of collateral by submitting a model application to the Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u173	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any speeches? I won't. Vote art. 15 The Editorials for para. One and two that were just read. They voted 99 MPs: 92, against 5, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u174	"Section IV.. Registration The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section IV.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u175	Are there any statements on the name of the Section? I won't. We vote on the name of Section IV. Vote 97 MPs: 89, against 3, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u176	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u177	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text for art. 16 by importer. Vote 94 MPs: 88, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u178	Under art. 17 has a proposal from the MP Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the In Al. 1 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." The commercial activities carried out which will result in the acquisition of oil and petroleum products, the sites of trade and storage, including imports and intra-Community arrivals. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 17: Art. 17. (1) The persons engaged in economic activities related to oil and petroleum products shall be registered with the Ministry of Economy by applying for each of the activities under art. 2, para. 1 according to a model approved by the Minister of Economy, which contains: 1. identification of the applicant; 2. a description of the activities for which registration is requested; 3. details of oil and petroleum products to be carried out under registration, described in terms of terms and codes of the year in question, the Combined Nomenclature of the European Union of Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 1006/2011 of 27 September 2011 amending Annex I to Council Regulation (EEC) No 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the Common Customs Tariff (OJ L 282/1 of 28 October 2011).), hereinafter referred to as the "Combined Nomenclature'; 4. detailed information on all commercial activities and regimes resulting from the acquisition of oil and petroleum products, commercial and storage sites, including imports and intra-Community arrivals (OOPs); 5. a list of the identification data of the sites, facilities and means of transport where the relevant economic activity will take place and for the activities under art. 2, para. 1, t. 2 and 3 and a technological scheme to which the tanks, pumping stations, process pipelines, loading/loading installations and means of transport are marked and numbered; 6. type of retail outlet, upon request for registration for activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 7. address for correspondence, contact person and, in the case of three or more objects or means of transport, the relevant contact persons, telephone and e-mail address. (2) The following documents shall apply to the application: 1. a document identifying the person representing the trader in the event that the applicant is a person registered under the legislation of a Member State of the European Union or a State Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 2. a declaration that the person is a farmer under the Farmer's Law; 3. a certified copy of a property document or other document certifying the existence of property or bond rights for the use of premises entered as an address by registered office and management, and for the activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7 documents shall be submitted for ownership/use and schematic or situational sketch of land properties, sites and facilities from which this activity will be carried out, indicating the exact GPS coordinates of the sites and facilities; 4. a copy of a payment order for the amount/original of the bank guarantee, according to the type of collateral provided, except for the activities under art. 2, para. 1, t. 4 and 7; 5. a declaration by the sole owner, the majority owner of the capital, managers, prosecutors, members of management or supervision bodies, where they are natural persons, that they are not placed under full or restricted detention; 6. documents certifying the fulfilment of the general conditions for registration under art. 7); 7. Certified copies of property/use documents and situational sketches of land properties, sites and facilities from which this activity will be carried out on the premises of carriers holding a licence for carrying out passenger or cargo transport in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, or holding a licence for carrying out international carriage of passengers or goods, as well as of persons carrying out waste treatment activities under the Waste Management Act, with an indication of the exact GPS coordinates of the sites and facilities. (3) A single application may request registration for more than one site, in which case a separate certificate of registration of each site shall be issued.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u179	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any statements under art. 17? Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u180	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! With the same motives that I put out in my proposal for editing in art. 8, I am making an offer for editing in art. 17, para. 2, p. This activity is added after the words... or a declaration of their whereabouts.................................................................................................. According to this proposal, the current text of t. 3 in para. 2 of art. 17 is done: "3." a certified copy of a property document or other document certifying the existence of property or bond rights for the use of premises entered as an address by registered office and management, and for the activity under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7 documents shall be submitted for ownership/use and scheme or situational sketch of land properties, sites and facilities from which this activity will be carried out or a declaration of their location, with an indication of the exact GPS coordinates of the facilities and facilities; Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Thanks for the text. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other speeches on the member under discussion? I won't. We're going to vote. First, we vote on the text which is not supported by the Commission proposed by the Parliamentary Representative Christian Mitev. They voted 102 MPs: 15 against 33, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the version proposed by Mrs. Taneva, with the addition to art. 17, para. 2, p. A statement of their whereabouts shall be sent to the competent authorities of the Member States and to the competent authorities of the Member States of the Member States of the European Union and of the other Member States of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the European Union of the one part, and of the other part, of Vote 99 MPs: 96 against 2, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We shall proceed to the vote on the entire text of art. 17 with the editing. Vote 99 MPs: 92 against 6, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u182	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18: Art. 18. (1) Within 7 working days of receipt of the application under art. 17, para. 1, officials from the specialized unit of art. 4, para. 2 carry out a verification of the documents attached to it. (2) Within 7 working days of completion of the inspection, the officials of para. 1 shall notify the applicant in writing of the removal of identified deficiencies and/or inaccuracies of the documents submitted. Within 14 working days of receipt of the notification, the applicant shall remove incompleteness and/or inaccuracies. (3) Within 10 working days of the removal of incompletes and/or inaccuracies under para. 2, the officials of para. 1 propose to the Minister of Economy or to a Deputy Minister authorised by him to issue a certificate of entry in the register, respectively a reasoned order for refusal of entry in the register. (4) The certificate of entry in the register shall be received personally by the applicant or by an authorised notary authorised power of attorney. (5) In the event of the loss, theft or destruction of the registration certificate in the register, the applicant shall submit an application to the Minister of Economy for the issue of a copy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u183	Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u184	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 The time limits for examining documents for issuing a registration certificate shall be laid down. In para. 1 a 7-day period has been set for the examination of the documents received. In para. 7 working days for the completion of the verification of the documents so submitted and a 14-day period is provided for the applicant to remedy these irregularities when irregularities are detected. In para. 3 is indicated a 10-day period within which, following the removal of irregularities by the applicant, officials shall make a reasoned proposal to the Minister or his legal representative, to issue or not issue the certificate, which must be entered in duly. In para. However, there is no time limit for the Minister to be bound to record or refuse the entry of this certificate. We therefore make an editorial amendment to be added to such a deadline: after the end of the sentence in the register, to be added to the list within 14 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u185	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u186	A statement, Madam President. Everything is done for the benefit of the people who will submit certificates to comply with these deadlines. If you believe that the time limit for the minister should be recorded for another 14 days, it will not interfere with anyone. I'm totally on top of it. I hope that this House will also support such a proposal. [[Reply from the hall.]] We have six months before the Law enters into force. They will be ready. Let's not debate now, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u187	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Do you keep your offer? [[Reply by MP Daniel Yordanov.]] Okay. We're going to vote. We are voting on Mr. Daniel Yordanov's proposal to add it to the register in 14 days. It's about para. 3. Vote 95 MPs: 22, against 29, abstention 44. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text for art. 18 in the version of the Commission. Vote 98 MPs: 90 against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u188	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 19, as in para. 1 before t. 1 the words "motivated decision" shall be replaced by "motivated order" and in para. 2 the words "the Decision" shall be replaced by "The Refusal."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u189	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any speeches? We vote on the text for art. 19. Vote 94 MPs: 85 against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u190	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 20.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u191	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 20. They voted 86 MPs: 81, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u192	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u193	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 21. [[The Presidents shall change the sitting.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u194	Vote 87 MPs: 82, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Mr. Dimitrov, since it is 1:00 p.m., I suggest we conduct the hearing procedure for Professor Stoimenova, who is here we voted to conduct this procedure. Guys, do you mind? And then we'll continue with the bill. Dr. Daritkova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u195	Madam President, I ask you to put to the vote the proposal for admission to the plenary of Professor Asena Stoimenova, Director of the Drug Executive Agency, in relation to the forthcoming hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u196	Please vote on the procedure so made. They voted 106 MPs: 102, against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Professor Stoimenova to the hall. Professor Mihailov, you are welcome to motivate your proposal for a hearing for five minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u197	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Professor Stoimenova, after the dramatic interaction between Parliament and the institution, when we initially received a refusal for your participation, I do not know what was the reason, you may have leaked false information, you will explain what personally made me very sad, now I will try, within these five minutes, which gives me the procedure, to put the questions which I hope you have prepared within these four hours to answer, and responsible not only to the parliament, but also to the Bulgarian citizens. It is about the substance valsartan, which is involved in many drug users alone or in a combined formulation, for the treatment of hypertensive conditions, of post-existing conditions and which were withdrawn by the IAL Decision on Friday. I'm getting into the details here. First a list was published, and in the media, without any information about institutions that are relevant to healthcare, and then this list was downloaded and a second list was released. In my personal inspection at the pharmacy the pharmacists themselves could not explain a very serious fact which I suppose you will try to explain. The manufacturer will not quote the complex Chinese name, Chinese producer, since 2012 when technology changes, it is found that this product is an interaction of valsartan with ingredients in the drug itself, which is available, as I said, combined or alone. That is, we have 6 years of possible exposure to citizens throughout the European Union who have had the opportunity to take this medicine. This mixture, let me not repeat it here in front of the honourable colleagues, N-nitrosodimethylamine represents a group 2B poison, the reference is in front of me. It is a safe carcinogenic agent for animals and a suspected carcinogenic agent for humans. The explanations that were raining one after the other, I carefully tracked the sites in the last 96 hours, were from pointing out that it concerns 160 thousand. Bulgarian citizens, then until the issue is raised that, you see, this medicine can be replaced. Anyone who deals with cardiology knows that any change in medication in combination that treats a hypertensive condition or post-existing condition is a serious therapeutic problem of the doctor. As a result, all SCCs in Bulgaria were overwhelmed by patients looking for answers to the questions that are now likely to be asked by my colleagues as well. Unfortunately, Professor Stoimenova, during these 96 hours there were all sorts of specialists in quotes or specialists without quotes, but did not appear officially the Executive Agency of Medicines, which is called to deal with as serious problems as the control of medicines. So we have allowed ourselves today to invite you personally as a specialist to explain, first, whether there is a reason for changing the list that was released at the very beginning? Secondly, the issue that excites people in the unstoppable, as our inspection at the pharmacies proved that not all accounts have been stopped. There are many companies that produce medicines based on valsartan. No one can be sure, as there are only substances contained in the label, without mentioning who is the manufacturer of these substances. And who deals with the problems of pharmaceuticals, I dare say as a person who has been a member of the Committee for Medicinal Control in Bulgaria for ten years, much of the substances are produced by almost monopolistic producers. In this case, such a huge producer is the Chinese producer. In other words, too many questions have gathered in the people of Bulgaria. That's about 160,000. patients who have not been fully answered. Today again, checking the Internet, I find a calming post that already resembles the song.. Everything is accurate..................... not to continue with quotes from this song....... where a pharmacist from the 22nd DCS...... can't quote............................. There are very serious things in the problem, and I hope that you will give an answer to both Parliament and the Bulgarian citizens to these questions that we have allowed ourselves to ask you. Thank you, Madam President. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u198	Thank you, Professor Mihailov. Professor Stoimenova, please inform the people's office. Please come in for a procedure. Just one second.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u199	Madam President, honourable Members! Because I heard Mr. Mikhailov say 160,000. people are interested in this problem, so I am making a procedural proposal that this be broadcast on BNT so that they can be informed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u200	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. I'm voting on the procedure Mr. Nikolov has just proposed. They voted 115 MPs: 115, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please turn on the cameras of the Bulgarian National Television 2 and Bulgarian National Radio. Professor Stoimenova, please come in for 10 minutes to inform us.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u201	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm sorry if I left Professor Mihailov with the impression that the Executive Medicines Agency didn't want to communicate on this matter. The fact that I have placed my commitment to you above all others at the moment, some of which require an urgent solution, and that I am here in this Chamber to answer your questions proves the importance of this problem. What I want to do first, as I have within 10 minutes, to read to you briefly the chronology, then, as I carefully wrote down Professor Mihailov's questions, will answer each one of them. In the late afternoon of 3 July 2018, a teleconference was held between all national regulatory authorities and the European Medicines Agency, discussing a problem with the presence of valsartan produced by a Chinese manufacturer. At this time, the Rapid Allert project is being discussed, this is an urgent message, as within the regulatory bodies of the Member States of the European Union, we are all connected to an electronic network in which we exchange Rapid Allert. These are reports of rapid notification of problems in the quality of medicinal products, regardless of which of the Member States initially identified the problem. At the end of the teleconference, the national agencies are warned that an official Rapid Alert will be issued by the Spanish regulatory authority on 4 July. Accordingly, a decision shall be taken to assess the situation, the criticality of the products concerned and which marketing authorisation holders in the countries concerned, as there are differences as well as which products are affected. On 4 July, the Drug Executive Agency received an emergency alert from the Spanish regulatory authority. By this coincidence, I am located in the Spanish Agency, but given other issues. However, we are taking part in the teleconference which is about this Rapid Allert. Everything is agreed with the European Medicines Agency and with the other regulatory authorities, which have currently held several teleconferences. At the time of receipt of the official alert, the Executive Agency has already carried out a verification of the presence of medicinal products containing the active substance valsartan produced by that manufacturer, as there are other manufacturers worldwide of valsartan, they are not affected. We're only talking about one particular manufacturer. And I want to tell you that some of the Marketing Authorisation Holders also have alternative places to produce the active substance that are not affected. A simultaneous analysis of the information on medicinal products that may be used in the treatment of hypertension, recent myocardial infarction and heart failure is carried out, which are in fact precisely the indications indicated in the Summary of Product Characteristics of valsartan. On 4 July, as soon as the official alert is received by the European Medicines Agency, of course, all of this can be demonstrated chronologically with the relevant documents and dates, if you decide that there is such a need........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The orders are sent to the holders of the products concerned. The holders affected are 14 in number. The Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund is informed by the IAL's website as well. Orders have been sent to all regional health inspections in the country to carry out enforcement controls. I would also like to thank Professor Mihailov for the questions that I have written down very carefully and to which he will now answer, because perhaps the language in which the regulator is expressing itself, but he cannot be otherwise different is quite often specific. At the first remark there is no information to institutions, there is information to the National Health Insurance Fund and to the Ministry of Health, such as our principal, and to regional health inspections respectively. As you probably know, the Drug Executive Agency has no territorial subdivisions, and when blocking and appropriate withdrawal of medicines from the network is organised, we rely on the assistance of regional health inspections. On the second tick and question by Professor Mihailov: is the problem identified in 2012? The problem has not been established in 2012 and there is no 6-year exposure. It is also recorded in the communication we receive from the European Medicines Agency, as it is also coherent. What we have broadcast to the media, to the public, is agreed with the other regulatory authorities and EMAs that the presence of this mixture is explained by changes made in the production file in 2012. That is, changes in the production process that can explain the presence of this mixture, but there is no clear evidence that the mixture is in the medicinal products since 2012. Thank you for this question, as it is important to clarify, even more so that we are broadcast. Another thing to specify is not the interaction of valsartan with the mixture in the active substance. Potential carcinogenicity of the active substance is considered. As Professor Mihailov rightly pointed out, this is a supposed carcinogenic and again, as Bulgarian citizens look at us, I would like to stress that this is a preventive measure. You have carefully followed the sites, but I call from this platform the only sites from which to obtain information about medicinal products, which is objective and credible, to be the websites of the official institutions................................................ and the European Medicines Agency, of course, and the Ministry of Health as our principal. Regarding the replacement of drugs. Indeed, the issue is extremely important and I am not surprised that it was put by Professor Mihailov, of course, as a doctor. We've posted a list that, by the way, has been updated. This is the reason why the publication of any information from the Executive Agency is several times: expect an update, expect a continuation, expect new data, because this is a case that is undergoing development. We have published the uninfected products that contain valsartan "27 medicinal products in the Positive Drug List. In addition, each doctor, depending on the patient's specific problem, can also rely on another 138 products that are on the positive drug list, i.e. there are sufficient alternatives available. About how we communicated the information. A briefing was provided with the help of the Press Centre of the Ministry of Health, information on the official website, which is constantly being updated. Not all accounts are stopped. As I have already pointed out, there are those who are not affected. I think that, of course, Professor Mihailov will say, I was able to answer or at least try to answer his questions. I am available if you have other such, and of course the whole chronology can be supported by the relevant facts, documents, dates, incoming and outgoing numbers. Indeed, the issue is important because in Bulgaria more than 160 thousand patients accept these products. In comparison, in Spain, which actually issued this Rapid Allert, half a million patients were affected. Thank you for your attention. I remain available for your questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u202	Thank you, Professor Stoimenova. Colleagues, we are moving on to the hearing procedure on two issues from each parliamentary group. First is the parliamentary group of GERB.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u203	Mrs. Chairman! My question is this: have all the packages been withdrawn from the pharmacies network, all the lots affected? Can we guarantee the Bulgarian citizens that they will not be sold? My second question: has the Agency done its own research on the withdrawn lots? Is there actually a toxic substance in them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u204	Thank you, Professor Ivanov. Professor Stoimenova, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u205	Thank you for your questions. With regard to whether all of the pharmacies have been pulled from the pharmacies network. The order is dated 4 July 2018. In fact, it has been ordered by the marketing authorisation holders to order in writing all traders to whom they have supplied the quantities, the suspension of the sale and use. They have then notified the Executive Agency of the measures taken and minutes must be sent within five working days containing information on the rate of blocking and withdrawal. Regarding the study of the substance, the initial information came from the manufacturer. However, there is also the European Director of the Quality of Medicines and Health (EDQM). In principle, this is being monitored by the citizens of the European Union........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ So these tests were done in this director. Since there is mutual recognition and uniform standards, there is no need for the Agency to do these tests. I also heard a comment on the commercials, they're on the Agency's website.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u206	Thank you, Professor Stoimenova. First question from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u207	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Professor Stoimenova, you are aware of the panic that you have caused with the inadequate behavior of the Executive Medicines Agency in relation to the scandal, what to call it, with valsartan. I say inadequate behavior because you may have acted professionally, but 160 thousand people in Bulgaria panicked and, as Professor Mihaylov said, the rumor started from TV, from websites and so on. The cardiologists got really scary. In the public domain, different lists are distributed on the Internet. First list: 62 medicines containing an active substance valsartan, which are blocked or withdrawn from the market; an updated list of withdrawn medicines containing this active ingredient; an updated list of medicines that do not contain an active ingredient valsartan Many questions arise: is the scope of these lists complete? How have medicines been selected in the manufacturer' s lists, according to information from the European Medicines Agency, according to our information, by examination? How are they included in these lists? What is the guarantee that tomorrow or today, in an hour or two, the lists and medicines on one list will not be updated again? A number of questions waiting to be answered. These 160 thousand people are probably more or less, some have not heard from the media what they are talking about are waiting. How are we going to distract the panic among the people who have their meds on the list that doesn't walk away from it? There are doubts that the manufacturer, as is traditional in Bulgaria, may also be in other countries, does not fully recognise what ingredients it uses. There's a lot of questions. I don't know if you'll be able to dispel the doubts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u208	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Professor Stoimenova, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, the doubts that are being nurtured can never be dispelled. Of course, I'll try to answer the questions. Indeed, it is very important what you mentioned and the word "panica" because these are medicines that they have, as you said, a broad area of application. It is every doctor's responsibility to choose the appropriate treatment, so we have compiled these lists. Of course, they are different, they bear different names, because their purpose is different. As you rightly noted, one list contains the products that are affected, on which patients should actually be led to see whether the product is on this list or not. However, they do not need to look at any lists, but simply contact their doctor or even their pharmacist if they are not sure and check on that list. As far as the Internet is concerned, lists are being distributed. Once again, I would like to call on patients from this platform to check and rely on the websites of the Executive Agency for Medicines, the National Health Insurance Fund, the Ministry of Health, to trust their doctors and pharmacists because they are trained and called to do what they need to do right now. What's the bail? That's a very good question, and I really appreciate you asking it. Whoever has read the information, especially in such cases, on the website of the Medicines Agency, we always add one sentence: We are in constant contact with the other authorities of the Member States, with the European Medicines Agency, as well as with the European Director of the Quality of Medicines and Health EDQM in question. It is possible to obtain new information. There's talk, but there's nothing official yet. If official information is broadcast, we immediately update the information on the site and notify the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u210	Thank you, Professor Stoimenova. Next, a question from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs." There won't be. From the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms? No questions asked. From the parliamentary group of Volya? No questions asked. Let's move on to the second questions. From the parliamentary group of GERB Associate Professor Ivanov asked two questions, so they exhausted their opportunity. From the BSP for Bulgaria? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u211	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Stoimenova, there is no dispute that a huge group of Bulgarian citizens were excited about their treatment and interinstitutional how things will then happen with regard to the Health Insurance Fund, a relationship with the doctor. You are now telling us that you were informed on 3 July 2018. Then we tracked down that the Ministry of Health received information, two days later at least on the site, and five days after that the Health Insurance Fund was ordered. For us as members of the Bulgarian Parliament and as people who are in constant contact with our voters, it is strange how an extremely important problem for the health of Bulgarian citizens interinstitutional works in more than a week. I mean, since Monday, the Health Fund has published a little something. Psychosis, trust me, people who have problems with their treatment are very big. First of all, they didn't know, because they had prescriptions, would they be granted the new discharge, what is the opinion? There's a list coming up. In my opinion, it was reprehensible interinstitutional behavior that you did not get together with the Health Insurance Fund, with the Minister, to ask for time from the Minister or from you to address the Bulgarian citizens and to point out the way. That every health institution has done something for itself is not enough. I'd like to ask you: when did you hear from the Minister of Health and Health? Did you feel interinstitutional emergency support for signals to the Bulgarian citizens to be protected?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u212	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Professor Stoimenova, please respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u213	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Again, a question I'm enjoying. Firstly, as regards the information, on 3 July 2018, it is informal, explicitly with the corresponding griff and instructions from the network of European regulatory authorities and from the European Agency not to be treated as such, but to be waiting on 4 July when we actually ordered the blocking. I called the Department of Health right away. I spoke to Mrs. Nacheva. If I sensed the support, I felt it immediately. I say "subspectively" because I sensed it immediately in the phone call and then on the action taken. Immediately the following day the Ministry of Health and the National Health Insurance Fund were notified in writing. Why it took the National Health Insurance Fund these five days, which probably added oil to the fire, that's a question I can't answer. I'll tell you why I enjoyed your question. Because at the time, I was at the Spanish Agency, which actually issued this Rapid word, I saw that the efforts they were making were the same, only it's a little easier for them because they have e-health, e-prescription and everything you're talking about. These five days may seem different if you arrange for prescription and relaxation in this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u214	Thank you, Professor Stoimenova. A question from the United Patriarchs? I won't. There's no DPS from the party. I can't see. Colleagues, we're moving on to the attitude procedure. First, from GERB's parliamentary group will anyone take the floor for consideration? Here you go, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u215	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Professor Stoimenova! I think it is extremely important here in the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria to put exciting citizens to the discussion, especially related to the protection of the life and health of the Bulgarian citizens. So we are grateful to Professor Stoimenova for finding time to appear today [[speaking indistinctly]] and bring relief to the people who are using these drugs. I would like to stress that I personally, as a medical aid contractor, received information from the Regional Health Insurance Fund on Friday, 6 July. So, after all, the National Fund has alerted the district offices quickly, and they are in a timely manner to the performers of medical care. The problems arose subsequently when the lists were not really refined and they are again related to the insufficiently effective information system of Bulgarian healthcare "something that we really need to invest in." It is now very important to hear that the danger is potential, that this is a preventive measure, that so far they have been carcinogenicly proven only on animal trials, so that Bulgarian citizens can be calm, there are enough medicines available, they just have to trust their doctors, cardiologists or pharmacists to make an adequate change in drug therapy. Under no circumstances should they stop it, for only in this way can they control their health well. I thank Professor Stoimenova for participating in today's hearing and the BSP colleagues for initiating this hearing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u216	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Indexes from the group of BSP for Bulgaria. Professor Mikhailov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Professor Stoimenova, I would quote to you at the beginning of my attitude to you some words of world-renowned genius Steve Jobs that a rumor becomes extremely dangerous and powerful at the time of his rebuttal. That's why our wish was to meet you here. I'm sorry we got this initial answer from you that everything is on the IAL website and there's nothing to talk about. Thank God we've seen each other here, but there are a few things I want to quote from your website and to which I believe that not now, but in the coming hours and days, the Executive Medicines Agency will find an answer that can somehow reassure people who have a direct relationship, that is, the Bulgarian patients affected by this problem. First of all, what is quoted on the site and I allow myself to quote it directly here is a point of reference of the research by the "Jeyang Huahai" company, which produces the substance valsartan, shows that the presence of this mixture, which is a waste product, you know very well, from the synthesis of valsartan, is related to changes in the production process introduced in 2012. This is a quote from the IAL website. In other words, there is no way that the Bulgarian citizens who use this site will not suspect that since then, although there is a nonsense written, for me at least, as a professional, that: The change in production activity is not related to the violation of GMP.................................................................... There is no need for you to explain what a cross-check means to see how things stand, because there is one such possibility, for God's sake, that it is true that an analytical method has been introduced which shows much lower quantities already to the investigator of this waste product of valsartan, which are practically not dangerous to citizens. Do not finally prove that this whole storm, which is being caused, is dictated by quite other forces, because in the public space there are other opinions that replacing one type of therapy with another type of therapy - despite the fact that in some of the sites that you ignore, but the sites give the opinion to people - is prescribed therapy that is different from being a softer - finer than what they are currently receiving. That is, the intervention of the IAL Agency should be timely, and here I see the miss, which was implemented by the Agency, you have received the spiritual support of the Ministry of Health, but the Bulgarian citizens expected your spiritual support in the media in order to get the tranquility that everything was done by the Agency. In practice, neither Bulgaria nor the EMEA is responsible for what happened in 2012 in China, in a company and not in China, because China is not responsible for this, but only 2018, and you now know very well that a European Commission procedure under Directive 31 has been launched since 5 July, which concerns all the countries of the European Union. That is, things had to and should already be presented on a much more serious basis in order to find real peace from every patient and he should know that the state is behind it in this case. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u218	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. From the United Patriarchs? I can't see. From the DPS? Welcome to the attitude of the People's Representative Jevdet Chakarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u219	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Stoimenova, in general we would like to thank you for the information you presented to the National Assembly, to the MPs and to our entire public. We have very carefully reviewed the site and what you point out there as information really exists. That's good. The list of medicines containing valsartan and alternative medicinal products is also indicated. And that's good. But here I would like to make a remark or a recommendation to you and to all the competent authorities, in this case to the Ministry of Health, and as well as the National Health Insurance Fund, as Dr Daritkova said, but in this case it has not become clear that there is a very good coordination between the competent authorities, so that all information not only reaches the general public, health care representatives and performers. All this I say in the context of our fellow citizens who are being treated for a serious illness, to have the information and not create psychosis. Unfortunately, we cannot say that there is no psychosis, because this is an extremely serious situation - 160.000 of our fellow citizens are being treated by high blood pressure, and the treatment of high blood pressure is very serious. In my opinion, we need to make a very good organization so that alternative drugs can be prescribed. There is also a follow-up period for these patients to make the best dose. Naturally, I share the considerations expressed by Professor Mihailov. Here is also the social component, the social vector in terms of prices, the price policy that needs to be implemented. In this respect, you must have a leading position and role to give the appropriate recommendations for all of this to happen. When we discussed from this high tribune the problem of water in Haskovo, we now see again that coordination between the various competent authorities and institutions must be at a higher level and I call for it to really be realized, and in such cases all competent state authorities and institutions to be at the height of their responsibilities, so that we are in maximum support and assistance. In this case, I see what needs to be done: a very good organization must be made. Here it is good to turn to the word organization of the Bulgarian Medical Union to have an active position and role, so that our fellow citizens who are treated by this disease can actually receive adequate treatment. I myself am a doctor, and I remember the words of Professor Kirin, a bright memory, who said that high blood pressure was a silent silent killer. High blood pressure should be treated in an adequate manner and we are all obliged, especially doctors, to do so in the most appropriate way. However, we thank you for your information and wish you success in the name of the health of the nation in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u220	Thank you, Mr. Chakarov. From the parliamentary group of Volya? It's not relevant. We've run out of procedure with this. Thank you, Professor Stoimenova. Colleagues, we continue with: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE ADMINISTRATIVE REGULATION OF ECONOMIC ACTIONS RELATED TO OIL AND OIL PRODUCTS. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u221	"Department V " (Public Register) " The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section V.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u222	Are there any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. We vote on the name of Section V. They voted 83 MPs: 74 against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u223	Under art. 22 has a proposal from the MP Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 22: Art. 22. (1) The register referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 shall be public, maintained in electronic form on the website of the Ministry of Economy and shall be kept according to a model established by the ordinance under art. 4, para. 4. (2) In the register referred to in art. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, 1 shall be entered: 1. the name and legal form of the legal person or name of the natural person who is registered; 2. identification data; 3. headquarters and address of management, as well as offices and branch management addresses, if any; 4. management bodies, the three names of the persons who manage it or represent it, as well as the manner of representation; if members of management bodies or representatives are legal entities, the names of the persons who represent them shall be entered respectively; 5. a period for which the company is established; 6. amount of the company's paid-up statutory capital; 7. date of entry of the application for registration in the Ministry of Economy; 8. number and date of registration certificate; 9. the activities of art. 2, para. 1 for which registration has been made; 10. List and identification of the sites where the relevant economic activity will take place, including the type of retail outlets, means of transport and filling bottles of liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and for persons operating under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7, details of the sites through which the activity is carried out; 11. data on oil and petroleum products to be carried out, subject to registration, described in terms and codes on the current year for the Combined Nomenclature, such as the persons operating under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7 do not provide this data; 12. information on all commercial activities and regimes resulting from the acquisition of oil and petroleum products subject to trade and storage, including imports and intra-Community arrivals; 13. date and number of the order for changing the circumstances of the registration and the date of the new registration certificate; 14. date and number of the order for deletion of registration; 15. type and amount of collateral provided and, in the case of an irrevocable and unconditional bank guarantee granted, a date up to which it is valid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u224	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I don't see any requests for speeches. We are going to vote on the proposal for a text of art. 22. Please, voting mode. Vote 79 MPs: 72 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u225	"Department VI " "Cost of registration and deletion of registration and deletion from the register". The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Section VI.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u226	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of Section VI. Vote 81 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u227	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 23: Art. 23. (1) The Minister of Economy or his authorised Deputy Minister shall issue an order for termination of registration and deletion from the register: 1. at the request of the registered person; 2. in the event that a registered person ceases to comply with a general or special condition for registration under Chapter Two, Section I and II. Where the registered person ceases to comply with a special condition, only in respect of a specific activity under art. 2, para. 1 or a separate object, registration shall be terminated only in respect of the activity/unit concerned. (2) Within 14 days of the occurrence of the circumstances under para. 1, officials from the specialized unit of art. 4, para. 2. draw up a report and propose to the body under para. 1 issue an order for termination of registration and deletion from the register. (3) Within 14 days of receipt of the proposal under para. 2, the authority under para. 1 issue an order for the nullification of registration and deletion from the register which is subject to prior execution, unless the court order otherwise. (4) In the case of an order for termination of registration and deletion from the register of a person operating under art. 2, para. 1, t. 1 - 3, the specialized unit is obliged to inform the State Agency........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (5) The order under para. 3 shall be subject to appeal under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u228	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text proposed by the Commission for art. 23. We are voting on the Commission's version. They voted 86 MPs: 81, against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u229	"Chapter 3" - Specific provisions. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Three.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u230	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of Chapter Three. Vote 81 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u231	Under art. 24 has a proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 24: Art. 24. (1) Charging with oil and petroleum products of road vehicles or non-road machinery or mechanisation of third parties shall be prohibited through an internal establishment or an establishment from which the activity under art is carried out. 2, para. 1, t. 7. (2) Internal object or object from which activity is carried out under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7, shall not be situated less than 100 metres from a service station.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u232	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the text proposed by the Commission for art. 24. Please, voting mode. Vote 82 MPs: 74 against 6, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u233	Under art. 25 has a proposal from the MP Emil Dimitrov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 25: Art. 25. (1) Charging with oil and petroleum products of road vehicles or non-road machinery or mechanisation of mobile petrol stations, other road vehicles, moving objects or mobile facilities shall be prohibited, with the exception of charging from an internal object for own use, charging from an object from which activity is carried out under art. 2, para. 1, t. 7 for own use subject to the conditions of art. 8, para. 7, as well as own-use charging up to 80 litres. (2) It shall be prohibited to carry out filling activities of liquefied petroleum gas pressure vessels (LPG) outside tax warehouses within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses and outside the tourist bottle filling points registered under this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u234	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal for a text in art. 25 on the Commission report. Vote 96 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u235	Proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in art. 25, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u236	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal to create art. 25a in the proposed version. Vote 85 MPs: 78 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u237	"Chapter 4" Control. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u238	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the name of Chapter 4 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 84, against 3, abstention 5. The proposal for the title of Chapter 4 has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u239	Under art. 26 there is a proposal from the MP Christian Mitev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: "1." Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The control of compliance with the requirements of this law shall be carried out by the Minister of Economy or a Deputy Minister and/or officials authorised by him. 2. In para. 2 t. 3 to be absorbed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u240	Thank you, Mr. Dimitrov. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposals for a text of art. 26. First, we are voting on the proposal of the MP Christian Mitev, not supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 14 against 26, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal for a text in art. 26 by importer. Vote 84 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u241	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-11.u242	Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote on art. 27 by importer. They voted 86 MPs: 79, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, our work on the current bill will continue tomorrow, 12 July 2018, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
