ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, I will introduce you to the National Assembly's Work Programme for 24 October 2018. At the Conference of Presidents, we have decided to include the additional item: Project for decision I will read it to you as the eighth point, first point for Thursday. 1. Vote for a draft decision to vote mistrust the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in the field of health. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 15 October 2018. 2. New discussion of the Law amending the Law on State Property, adopted by the National Assembly on 10 October 2018, returned for a new discussion with Decree No 230 of 16 October 2018 to the President of the Republic under art. 101 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. Draft Annual Work Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2018 The Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds is the importer on 10 October 2018. 4. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018. Adopted in the first vote on 20 September 2018. 5. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Export Insurance Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2018. 6. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 August 2018. The first vote was adopted on 5 October 2018. 7. First vote on Bills to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers are the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018; Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Christian Mitev on 9 October 2018. 8. Draft decision on the adoption of procedural rules on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a Chair, Vice-President and members of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence means. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act on 8 October 2018. Point 1 for Thursday, 25 October 2018 9. Second vote on the Bill amending the Currency Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 13 September 2018. Adopted in the first vote on 26 September 2018. 10. First vote on the bill amending and supplementing the Insurance Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. 11. A bill for ratification of the Agreement concluded by exchanging notes on 20 September 2018 amending the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Government of the United States of America on economic, technical and relevant other assistance signed on 27 July 1998. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 5 October 2018. 12. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria and the Cabinet of Ministers of Ukraine on disaster cooperation. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 25 September 2018. 13. First vote on the bill for people with disabilities. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. Point 1 for Friday 26 October 2018 14. First vote on Personal Aid Bills. Importers are Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs, 2 July 2018; Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, 4 July 2018. Point 2 for Friday, 26 October 2018 15. Parliamentary control. Please, voting mode. Vote 226 MPs: for 209, against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. There has been a proposal for inclusion on the agenda under art. 53, para. 3 from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria. "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 113 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we propose to hold a hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Mr. Valeri Simeonov in connection with his speech on the protests of the mothers of disadvantaged children. On the basis of art. 53, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be included as the first item in the Program of the National Assembly for the period 24 Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov, to argue your proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! The Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party is requesting a written request for a hearing of the Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Valeri Simeonov regarding his public statements and the explicit provisions of the Bulgarian Constitution, where in art. 14 It is clearly written that family, motherhood, and children are under the protection of the state and society. Except for art. 14 of the Bulgarian Constitution there are dozens of international documents, but I will only emphasise the Charter of the United Nations, the Copenhagen Charter and a number of other documents where motherhood is not only declared under the protection of the state and society, but is proclaimed as a fundamental value one of the fundamental values of human civilization. Regardless of the context of the speech, the arrangement of the words, the place of commas and what Mr. Simeonov wanted to put into his own speech, the whole Bulgarian society remained with the feeling and with the bitter impression, although in our Constitution it is clearly written that the Bulgarian state is a social state and that as a social state with all the instruments of state policy protects children, protects the weak in society, protects those who need and cannot realize themselves through the cruel mechanisms of market competition, Mr. Simeonov found it necessary and from the position he holds... [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u3	Mr. Zablyanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u4	Yeah, I get it. I'm done. ...to qualify motherhood as some kind of instrument for blackmailing the state. The scandal is unheard of and we demand that Mr. Simeonov arrive in the room and explain! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. A counteroffer? Here you go, Mr. Yachev. [[Noise and lines.]] And you have back? Okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u6	Madam President, is this the resignation of the government or the lynching of Mr. Valeri Simeonov?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u7	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Ministers! I am making a reverse motion to reject the request for a hearing of Mr. Valeri Simeonov with the following motive: On Friday, the National Assembly is due to examine and adopt two of the most important draft laws. The Law on Personal Aid and the Bill on Persons with Disabilities, which will solve the problems of people with disabilities to an extremely large extent. Problems that have not been solved over the years, including during two terms of management of the BSP! I believe that that political power, which wants to express its attitude towards the problems of people with disabilities, can and should do so on Friday, during the debate and in the adoption of these bills, without unnecessary political playwrights and speaking here, from the stands of the National Assembly. I therefore propose that the request for a hearing of Mr. Valeri Simeonov be rejected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u8	Thank you, Mr. Yachev. Here you are, Mr. Tsonev, for a counterproposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u9	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I'm making a reverse offer, but with a completely different motive. When the legislative authority in parliament makes a request for a hearing of an executive, this usually happens when there are situations concerning policies, about crises in the country, but when it comes to morality, as is this case, when it comes to an absolute lack of any morals, when it comes to the cynicism of a person who has been blowing up society for several years with his brutal cynical statements, there is nothing to listen to here! The hearing procedure does not include hearing whether a person has an upbringing, whether he has values in himself, but includes a hearing on policies and situations. Therefore, the parliamentary group of the Committee of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is strongly against this person coming here and explaining to us what he wanted to say. What he meant to say, unfortunately, is shame and disgrace for our entire country and, unfortunately, we do not see any adequate action by the ruling majority. We're against it. I would like to say to you on behalf of the group that if you accept this point, we will not remain in this Chamber to humiliate our constituents, to listen to a cynic! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u10	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal under art. 53, para. 3 to invite for a hearing Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov. Vote 228 MPs: 92 against 122 abstentions 14. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] First, Mr. Karadaye had declared, then you. Bills and draft decisions were adopted: - A bill for people with disabilities. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on Radio and Television. The importer is Vejdi Rashidov. The Committee of Culture is the lead. - Bill amending and supplementing the Civil Aviation Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications and to the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order. - A bill to amend and supplement the Law on the Cleanliness of Atmospheric Air. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. - A bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Implementation of a Common Organisation of the Markets in Agricultural Products of the European Union. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Messages: In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers has adopted: - Decision No 751 of 19 October 2018, authorising the participation of four soldiers from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with their personal weapons and equipment in the NATO mission in Iraq for the duration of the mission in implementation of the provisions of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The decision of the Council of Ministers is also notified to the President of the Republic of Bulgaria; - Decision No 756 of 22 October 2018 authorising the dispatch, use of a company and a national supporting element to 140 servicemen and up to 40 units of military equipment by the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, declared for the operation of the European Union in the composition of the forces for the operational reserve of the NATO operation in Kosovo for the period of its implementation, as from 1 January 2019. The notifications were received on 19 and 22 October 2018 with entry No 802-00-51 and entry No 802-00-52 and were submitted to the Defence Committee. - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that during the period from 19 October 2018 to 27 October 2018 in the regions of the joint Bulgarian US facility The exercise will involve forces and funds from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as forces and funds from third countries: the Republic of Albania, the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Hellenic Republic, the Republic of Romania, the Republic of Serbia, the Republic of Macedonia, the Republic of Montenegro, the Republic of Turkey and the US forces in Europe. The Multinational Training of Forces for Special Operations shall be carried out in the implementation of the Plan of the activities of the 68th Brigade Special Forces in 2018, and shall be linked to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions for the conduct of upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities for the prevention of military activities conducted by other States or organisations, armed forces. The notification was received on 22 October 2018 with entry No 803-09-57 and was made available to the Defence Committee. - the Court of Auditors of the National Assembly has received an updated Programme for the Audit Activity of the Court of Auditors for 2018. The programme was submitted by letter No 824/-00-20 from the President of the Court of Auditors, indicating relevant changes to it. The material is provided to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. - The National Statistical Institute has received information about: "Inflation and Consumer Price Indexes for September 2018"................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Karadayi, please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u11	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms are asking for the resignation of Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov. At first he was talking about Roma moms with instincts of -- I'm not even gonna quote him. For similar behaviour from the Council of Europe pointed out fascist parties in the Bulgarian Parliament. For the quoted speech was condemned for xenophobia and hate language by the Bulgarian court. Then there was the beating on his chest after his disgraceful behavior at the border with an elderly woman, mixing notions and posing as patriotism a brutal, inhuman behavior. Then there was the threat of journalists through the official website of the Council of Ministers and a series of similar actions and words. Every time I cross a red line. Our warning at the establishment of the government was neglectful, our next warnings also. And the last statement came to be brutal, cynical, showing the true face of the most depraved combination of power, of mothers of sick children, whom every man and ruler should have respect for Stoicism, for heroism, for love, for humanity, for faith and for their hope. A deputy prime minister, lost in his own ignorance, uttered the most horrible words that can be said, and condemned not just himself, did damage to our state. The problem is not only political but also moral, it is civilized. No one's excuses work anymore. It's cynicism to answer for ethnic and demographic issues. People like him have no place not in power, but in politics at all. The cynicism of the government cannot compensate for ignorance, ignorance, inability to rule. His participation in a government of democratic Bulgaria with parliamentary rule, the rule of law under the Constitution, is unacceptable. It is not necessary to list all cases where his words and actions were the subject of criticism and defined as incompatible with the above-mentioned State definitions. But in order not to break the harmful structure, GERB puts the state at risk. Before the state they choose power, they talk about stability, but in fact they talk about decline and poverty, lack of justice, chaos. That might have been enough, but for some time, it's basically a lack of humanity. Is this the stability spoken of by the majority responsible for the stability of scandals, blunders, the crisis of democracy, the erosion of statehood, in the distance from people and solving their problems?! An hour rather, this deputy prime minister must go. It is a millstone not only on the neck of GERB, but also on the country. With this deputy prime minister remaining in power, Bulgaria, apart from the poorest, is now the most inhumane country in the European Union. [[Applause from DPS.]] In civilized countries, in such events, not only does the minister leave, but also the prime minister. GERB should know that neither the produced scandals nor the directed ones, topped with the lack of the prime minister from the country, will solve the problems, nor the subsequent scandals will cover up the previous ones, nor will they cover up the lack of reforms, the lack of real work. The other deputy prime minister admitted in a statement yesterday that he said the coalition in the last six or seven months, and in our opinion, from the very beginning, did not work and engage society with things that are not good and are not normal. Do we have the luxury of wasting time on another term? Who's gonna give us back our time, who's gonna give people their lost time? It's not normal what's happening, and it should be over soon. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Democracy in our country is in crisis, statehood is in agony. The deputy prime minister's involvement in the destructive process is serious. Overpowerment, seizure of functions, inadequate behaviour in the sector for which it is responsible are the least that can be indicated for the particular Deputy Prime Minister. In the created situation there are several options: either one deputy prime minister goes away, or the whole government goes away, or the disgrace is for the whole country. The decision whether to leave a deputy prime minister or not is yours. The decision to leave the whole cabinet will be of the Bulgarian citizens. If this deputy prime minister does not go away from power, we, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will take further political action to protect democracy, to resuscitate statehood and save Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Karadayi. Here you are, Mr. Stoinev, for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u13	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Believe me, the request to hear Valeri Simeonov is not dictated by the desire to once again hear the cynicism of a man without morals and values. No one wants to deepen on the clarification of the so-called family relations with the Patriots. We also do not want to deal with the coalition front behind which they hide from GERB. BSP is a national responsible party and the request for a hearing is due to the need for the institution that Valeri Simeonov represents to be forced to show whether it is adequate to the crises we are in. The first crisis is the state of care for people with disabilities at the state level. The second crisis, which is much bigger, is a government crisis and is turning into a political crisis. For us the executive power is completely blocked and is unable to exercise its functions. And here are the great risks to the country. That's why we wanted this hearing. It also sounds inconclusive what Mr. Tsvetanov said that the problems in the coalition were the result of interpersonal contradictions. The problems in the coalition are initially at stake after power has been given in the hands of unstable and inadequate entities in order to attach another government formula for power consumption. Valeri Simeonov is the product of a manner in politics that turned the institutions of the state into opponents of the people who turned the chosen to serve the people into masters and derribes that parasitize on their backs. This is not about personal cynicism and upbringing. Here we have an expression of state cynicism in relation to the citizens and the political alchemists of GERB are also responsible. The state must be cleared of this cynical and devastating management technique. Today there are children with disabilities, yesterday there were cancer patients, tomorrow there will be others. People are correct to their country and it is most normal to expect it to be adequate in their responsibilities. We have our assessment of the management of GERB and coalition not since yesterday and not because of this particular crisis and it is clear that new elections and changing the model of governance are needed. This is our strong party position. Civil discontent is close to the limit behind which this government loses its legitimacy, but as one of the few responsible parties, BSP wants to walk the path to elections democratically, respecting parliamentaryism and through transparent actions. That's the other reason for asking for this hearing. In addition to civil society, parliament is the other centre from which to start the change. We follow our political responsibilities. In this sense, we do not accept any charges of using the protests. It is time to see whether, through the majority, once again, an attempt will be made to use Parliament again to brake the change. If it happens again, it will be the strongest proof that this parliamentary term is indeed exhausted. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. Mr. Tsvetanov, please come in for a statement on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u15	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, honourable Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, honourable Ministers! Dear colleagues, with our vote today, each of us will give our support to the government or reject its support for the government. These declarations we have heard today are the result of the fact that you are not an alternative. [[Troping at the bank by MP Mustafa Karadaye.]] You've shown it every time you've had the opportunity to rule. When BSP colleagues come out to talk about people with disabilities, I can ask them how much money they were providing when they were managing lv. [[Loud noise, lines and calls from the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u16	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u17	The aim of this particular government, with this parliamentary support and this coalition agreement that we have, is to make policies. We've joined the management program for a four-year term. [[Reply of MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] The money that will now be debated on the forthcoming draft budget will be 150 million. lv. more. The money that has been increased for this year amounts to 63 million. lv. Dear colleagues on the left, the money you gave for people with disabilities BGN, the government, for which you today express your different opinions and assessments, will give 430 million. lv. for next year. What government do you think is a government that does, which implements real policies and which is the government that makes policies to satisfy personal interests? I can tell you the following: The 2019 draft budget that we are looking at will be based on 116 billion. lv. Gross domestic product. Just to tell you that in the Management Programme it is set in 2021 to be 120 billion. lv. The steps that the government performs on the management commitments are the minimum wage to increase annually and it will become BGN 560. From 2019 Here I do not want to comment on what we did in the field of education and the increase that the Bulgarian teachers will receive from 1 January 2019 in the amount of 20%, but the entire budget sphere by 10%. [[Strength noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u18	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u19	These are policies that the government conducts. These are policies that will continue to make the government because we have made a commitment to 4-year government and what we can do is actually make these policies reach people. Yes, indeed, every government has its problems. Yes, indeed every government has its differences, but that is precisely what shows that there is no backstage government, because everything is coming out and it is clear that all these differences are becoming even public. [[Loud noise and lines on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u20	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u21	What Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov did today is to apologize to all those who felt affected. What the country's prime minister did a few days ago also apologize on behalf of the entire government. Today at the coalition council we had, we discussed what could make us stronger and continue our 4-year management mandate, of course, taking into account mistakes. Here I would like to say that the assessment that my colleague Volen Siderov gave was an assessment of not a small part of the MPs. But when we sit at the same table and when we have responsibility, we always put priorities for the Management Programme forward, as well as what unites us, so that we can achieve success and have results in these sectoral policies. You know very well that we do it in the best possible way, and you can't be an alternative. This year's economic growth will be around 4%. The economic growth at stake for 2019 will be 3.7%. [[DPS lines.]] Dear colleagues, we want to have a debate on policies and on who has done what in all possible periods of government of the country, so we say the following: we will support with today's vote the government because we know that what the BSP does is to stick to what they say, to have a systematic approach to a constant vote of no confidence. Here I would like to address Mrs. Ninova specifically, who said that they are preparing for elections. I can tell you that we are preparing to run the country with a 4-year management mandate that we are implementing right now. [[Applause from GERB.]] And in 2021 we invite you to make a truly worthy debate so that the Bulgarian citizens can see again that you are not an alternative and give their support to GERB, which will give both the European elections and the local elections in 2020. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u22	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Tsonev, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u23	Thank you, Madam President. My procedure is in the way of conduct because the declaration that he made on behalf of the parliamentary group, the chairman of the group of GERB Mr. Tsvetanov, was not under our rules. Declarations on behalf of a group may not be made on the agenda. That was on the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u24	What subject?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u25	This was on the topic of the vote of mistrust, voting on the vote of mistrust. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] You have mentioned five times in your statement arguments for and against the vote of mistrust, support or failure to support policies and the cabinet. Another is the question, Mr. Tsvetanov, that you have not understood that this is not about governance in this debate and in the previous two declarations, but about morality and your moral responsibility to keep this man in power. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Mareshki, please come in for a statement. [[Loud noise, lines and shouts: "Eee! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u27	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Since the beginning of the term, but in the last few days, we have witnessed a depraved, perverted...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u28	Be careful, Mr. Mareshki! [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u29	I'm trying to be as careful as possible, but the people who are speaking are actually using those words. The Deputy Prime Minister himself said yesterday, he said himself: "Do you think I'm a freak?" so I can't use other words when we're witnessing such behavior. With just a slight correction to Mr. Karadayi, not only the mothers of children with disabilities are holy! All mothers of all children, including those who are happy to be parents of healthy children, are holy. No one has the right to behave this way towards any woman who has become a mother and no child in this country! We absolutely firmly stand behind the just request of the Bulgarian people for the resignation of those people who allow themselves to behave in this way. The strange thing that we notice in this case is that the only person, the only public official who stood up for Valeri Simeonov in his fight against the people, the parents of the children with disabilities, was the other Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov. [[Loud noise and shouting.]] And it's strange why his resignation isn't required here. [[Noise, lines, calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u30	Quiet, please, colleagues! Colleagues, let's listen to each other!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u31	We keep these two in tandem and we want both of them's resignation. Dear colleagues of GERB, I wanted the Prime Minister to be present here to tell him in person. I guess he'll hear it. We, if you recall, at the beginning of the mandate gave trust to the government. This was the will of Bulgarian citizens. You have convinced us that you are sitting behind a programme, that the government's construction is based on a programme that is in the interests of Bulgarian citizens, for high incomes, for justice, for a police officer in every locality, for solving demographic problems and then, if you remember, the whole group supported the government. I voted strongly against it because I said we disagreed with some of the specimens, with the individuals in the government. [[Loud noise, laughter.]] Now all the more this issue is on the agenda because you see that a year and a half later Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov himself, as has been rightly noted, says: "We have done nothing so far. It's high time we stopped talking and started working. Did you just think of that after a year? He's finished! [[Radio, laughter.]] Did you just think of that? The sooner these two go away from the government, the more secure it is that the mandate can be earned and that power, as is now used, is: "Let us not give power to BSP and DPS. This cannot be the goal of any government. A goal can be prosperity, development, prosperity, not who, any name! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] We were misled that the government's construction was not the names, but the program. In this sense, are there no decent people in NFSB and IMRO? We don't want their seats. I want to calm you down! But aren't there any decent people in IMRO and NFSB to stand in these positions? And why, if these two were to be properly thrown out of power, would the government have to collapse? Then won't they like the program so loudly advertised? I know that from somewhere now, if Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov shows up, he will say: "He, Mareshki, prepares, warms up, wants to be in his place." I will use the case once again, once again, although we are the only ones who have made a declaration many times and have stated that we in this National Assembly will in no way participate in government in any way. We're not those one-night stands. In the end, we are one of the few parties in this Parliament, in the sense one of those parties in this Parliament, who alone, with their own vision, have presented themselves to the Bulgarian people and have received support to be here as opposed to the two parties - NFSB and IMRO, which are the only parties in this Parliament who have never had the courage to go out alone at all and to receive support to become part of any Bulgarian parliament. So I will tell Deputy Prime Minister Karakachanov: not all, dear Mr. Karakachanov, are... Now to be soft again, but... [[(Noise, lines from DPS:) Don't! Don't!]] ...wrong careerists, who are willing to test the stability, the interests of the Bulgarian people, only to secure themselves at their posts. I can tell here cases where real voivods, real people who are members of IMRO, tell me how from the time of Kostov more Karakachanov has spoken to the party ranks: And they say, because they are inexperienced, and they say, "Well, fine, but why the Warrior?" Why not the economy, the energy?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u32	Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u33	Is that what we have to put up with now, Karakachanov, fulfilling his childhood dream, wet dreams?[Grunts] [[Loud noise, lines, calls.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u34	Mr. Mareshki, I'm making a note! Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u35	I apologize! I apologize, but you still see the situation we are in when the Bulgarian people...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u36	Soften the emotion a little bit!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u37	The Bulgarian people are referred to as the "creasy" children. This cannot go unnoticed, so, honourable Members, if your programme is really strong, withdraw these two and continue the program so that you can really fulfill your mandate and at the end of your term of office you can be proud of it and not... For us as opposition, what you are doing is the easiest thing for both of us to use them constantly, every single day, until full victory, until the Bulgarian government is cleared of people who ultimately, when the Prime Minister is absent, they become prime ministers. Are these the people who want the Bulgarian people to represent him and rule him? Learn your lesson, get down to the ground, make the right decisions! Be responsible for the right of the Bulgarian people to live more dignifiedly. Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria..............................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u38	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Mr. Veselinov, please come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u39	Madam President, I appeal to you with a remark on the manner of conduct during the speech of the speaker, as he allowed himself ineligible qualifications which, of course, are a vivid characteristic of his mentality. It is clear that he has read far less books than Mr. Karakachanov wrote, and that all who knew the two individuals, as he put it, can judge him. [[(Laughter and excitement in the BSP for Bulgaria.) Applause by GERB and OP.)]] It is not for the benefit of the Bulgarian Parliament such primitiveism to stir up and raging from the stands. So I ask you very much, every time there are similar outbursts of people who have established themselves as a reference to the mt.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Here you are, Associate Professor Mihov, for a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u41	Honorable Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, dear colleagues! Our declaration is dedicated to a more festive, more Sunday and more historical moment, but since too many words were said about IMRO, it seems to coincide and become too up-to-date. Yesterday, October 23rd, it was 125 years since the founding of the Inner Macedonian-Odrin revolutionary organization, which is now a member of the Bulgarian National Movement. [[Noise and lines.]] Just 125 years ago in Thessaloniki, six young Bulgarian teachers, doctors, scribes, launched the first secret committee, which in the coming years united all Bulgarians... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u42	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u43	It's good to listen if you can't read some people. In the following years he united all Bulgarians from Tsarigrad and Lozengrad to Voden, Lerin, Kostor, Bitola, Debar, Kichevo, Thessaloniki. Just a few years later, the Supreme Macedonian Committee was established in the Principality, where all the political parties were actively involved, leaders, intellectuals, professors from the university. [[Noise and lines.]] For 125 years, IMRO has suffered a severe historical fate that only the left can understand because it has experienced such a severe fate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u44	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u45	After World War I and in the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenians, both in the Kingdom of Greece and in the Kingdom of Bulgaria the IMRO was subjected to temptations, pressure, experiences, political struggles. As it was mentioned when IMRO first sent deputies to this Chamber, I will remind those who think they know something that there exists in the Bulgarian Parliament from 1927 to 1934 a Macedonian parliamentary group, which is the legal representation of the secret IMRO. After World War II, IMRO was subjected to severe repression and murder both in Bulgaria and in Yugoslavia. In the summer of 1946, the entire Central Committee was captured, part of the activists handed over to the Yugoslav secret services and forever disappeared from the field of our history. Today, IMRO is walking with its partners on the same established path, on the road which aims to win a strong, democratic, united and prosperous Bulgaria - leader in the Balkans, holder of European values, barrier against Islamic fundamentalism and Asian violence. Today we follow that principle laid down in our first Statute.. The position of the Bulgarian Macedonian-Odrin Revolutionary Committees that a member of IMRO can be any honorable Bulgarian and Bulgarian. Every decent citizen is our friend. Anyone who, with deeds, words and thought, makes an effort and gives a tax in favor of Bulgaria is our friend. We will not say a hard and bad word against the opposition, nor against any Bulgarian citizen, even less to our friends, partners and colleagues. We can forgive, unlike others, but I will recall something that was recorded back in the 1930s: "IMRO has slowed down, but does not forget. " - Happy Holiday! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u46	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Mr. Kirilov, please come in. [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]] We're done with party declarations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u47	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, ministers! [[Reply by MP Mustafa Karadayi.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u48	It was his anniversary, and that's why Mr. Mihov had the opportunity to tell the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u49	I'm making a procedural proposal under art. 51, para. 2 of the Rules on the direct broadcasting of item 1 of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u50	And point two. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u51	I make for first. [[Radio.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u52	Colleagues, I am voting on Mr. Kirilov's proposal for direct broadcast on BNT 2 and BNR voting on the first point. Vote 212 MPs: 200 against 1, abstention 11. The motion is accepted. Mr. Zarkov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u53	Thank you, Madam President. Of course, we supported the GERB proposal for the highest possible publicity on the first item on the agenda. We suggest the same to be true and to be transmitted directly on the Bulgarian National Television and point two: discussion of the 10th veto of the President, this time under the Law amending the Law on State Property.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. I'll put it to the vote. You could have suggested it when we looked at point two, but I'm going to put it to the vote. Please vote on Mr. Zarkov's proposal for direct broadcasting and second point. Vote 214 MPs: for 103, against 11, abstention 100. The offer is not accepted. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item on the agenda: MAINTENANCE OF THE PROJECT OF THE MAINTENANCE DECISION OF THE MINISTERAL COUNCIL OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA WITH THE MINISTER-FREE BORISCO PROVERS IN THE AREA OF HEALTH. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 15 October 2018. I'll read to you: Project! DECISION on the vote of mistrust of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 89 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED He voted mistrustful of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria with Prime Minister Boyko Borisov because of the failure in health care. Please vote. Vote 232 MPs: 99 against 133, no abstentions. The proposal is not accepted, as it is necessary to have 121 MPs for the House. The vote failed. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Negative vote, come in. [[The members of the government shall leave the Chamber.]] I thank the Council of Ministers for participating in the vote. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I'm asking for order in this room so we can continue our work! Negative vote by Mr. Markov. Here you go, Mr. Markov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u55	Madam President, honourable Members! Ladies and gentlemen of the Socialist Party, I treat you with respect and respect for the constitutional right to ask for this vote of mistrust, and your party, which is second in Bulgaria, unlike your colleagues in Europe, who fell out of the troika, but I voted against it, because I believe it is not normal and it is not good for Bulgaria to make elections in January, election campaign on Christmas, and to make elections by law for which only 500 thousand people of Bulgarian citizens voted in a referendum. Because there was a lot of talk about morality, I still have to say: I do not agree essentially that GERB is responsible for healthcare in Bulgaria for the simple reason that even half of the mandate has not passed, and you five times ruled this country. I was in this room when you had an absolute majority in 1990 and no one prevented you from reforming. You left us out of cotton, you left us out of aspirin...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u56	You're in the way! You're in the way, Markov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u57	...and you left the whole of Sofia and the countryside in line for drugs. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You came in 1992 by restructuring the political space and creating the parallel state. You created the government of the "Multigroup"........................................ [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u58	Mr. Jablyanov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u59	You paid us 5 dollars for the government of Stanishev. You made the word "Coalition" dirty. You have made the biggest trouble of the Bulgarian healthcare. You fired Professor Chirkov, this lamp of the Bulgarian cardiosurgery, who created the hospital.St. Ekaterina, who trained a whole number of surgeons, and he watched the son of your minister and the father of your prime minister, although they were, unfortunately, God forgive them, sick of quite another type of disease; so that the Oresharski cabinet would come not to Africa, as your MPs claim, that GERB leads us, you put with the office Oresharski Bulgaria in the freezer. I'm asking you to have a national sense of responsibility. Against the backdrop of the government crisis in Romania, the bosa that is taking place in Macedonia, in Greece, the government crisis, Bulgaria is an island of stability. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Next year, there are European elections. Then let's measure our strength. Thanks to GERB Bulgaria is stable. Here came the European prime ministers, here came the Chinese prime minister. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u60	Thank you, Mr. Markov. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in for a second negative vote. Mr. Bikov will wait.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u61	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I voted against because it is clear to everyone that BSP cannot be an alternative! It is clear to all of us that during all these years the BSP participated in the problems of years, which today the government of GERB, together with the United Patriarchs, we strive to solve. And the most important thing of today's vote is [[Speaking in Bulgarian]] that today the government received the biggest parliamentary support.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u62	What negative vote? He was in the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u63	Mr. Tsvetanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u64	Take his word away. There's no right to a negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u65	The votes that supported the government are 133, comparable to the previous... [[Replys and shouts from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u66	Mr. Tsvetanov! Mr. Tsvetanov, please! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's my pass. Excuse me. Mr. Tsvetanov has spoken about the debate and has no right to a negative vote. If you'll excuse me, the pass is mine. Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u67	Madam President, honourable Members! I voted against this no-confidence vote because I support both the government's programme and the government. This is probably not a surprise for many of you. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I also had another motivation. I voted in favour of the BSP. Colleagues, you don't know how much trouble you'll get into if you start running the state in the state you're in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u68	Mr. Bikov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u69	You're having a hard time dealing with a newspaper, a word at this point. [[Noise, lines, shouts by BSP for Bulgaria.]] Try to find yourself at the moment you are in opposition. The opposition isn't a bad thing. [[Noise and lines.]] The opposition is not a bad thing! It enables political communities to find themselves and broadcast an alternative. Year and a half You are not looking for yourself, but you are playing the role of some bouncing group of people, which in no way shows any signs of adequacy. If you start running the country, you will fail because you are not an alternative to this government. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria, noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u70	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u71	This government has an alternative, and this alternative is called............................................................................................. In your desire at all costs and absolutely self-inflicted to bring this government down, you will serve without asking, interests that you do not even think about without knowing what you will do next. "Vision for Bulgaria", all the documents you wrote, you thought them in some PR groups and focus groups. I know how this works. It is not enough, so I voted in favour of you. I hope you'll build an alternative. This will be useful for us too. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Colleagues, we move to the second item of today's agenda: A NEW DISCLOSURE OF THE LAW FOR THE CHANGE OF THE LAW ON STATE OWNITY, APPROVED BY THE PEOPLE'S COLLECTION OF 10 OCTOBER 2018, RETURNED FOR NEW DISCLOSURE BY SAYING No 230 OF 16 OCTOBER 2018 TO THE PRESIDENT OF THE REPUBLIC OF THREAT. 101 OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA. I give the floor to the President of the Committee on Legal Affairs to brief us on the report. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u73	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on Decree No 230 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 18 October 2018, on the return for a new discussion of the Law amending the Law on State Property, adopted by the National Assembly on 10 October 2018, and the reasons to the Decree. At its meeting held on 23 October 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed Decree No 230 of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, received on 18 October 2018, for a return for a new discussion of the Law amending the Law on State Property, adopted by the National Assembly on 10 October 2018, and the reasons to the Ukhaza. The President of the Committee on Legal Affairs shall report to the members of the Commission the President of the Republic of Bulgaria and his reasons. On the basis of art. 101, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, the President returns to the National Assembly the provisions of § 1, item 1. This Decision is addressed to the Federal Republic of Germany. In his motives, the President points out that the adoption of Paragraph 1 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of The President objected to the possibility provided for in § 4 of an action of non-units, assuming that the Law creates the possibility that the report of separate parts should be carried out without a decision of the Council of Ministers. The president's veto also challenged the lifting of the legal possibility that the advert companies with more than 50 percent of state participation would have a blocking quota in the decision-making of the General Assembly. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev, Philip Popov and Krum Zarkov. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that the use of the concept of privatization is inaccurate because privatisation is a transfer through sale, and the Bill has as its object an export of property. He expressed his disagreement over the assessment that there was hidden and free privatisation, noting that the deporter received a counter-preservation in terms of membership rights which provide and guarantee rights in the company. As an example of membership rights were given the right to participate in the management of the company, as well as property rights that bear direct financial benefit, such as the right to obtain part of the profit realised by the company. Mr. Kirilov explained that in the proposed art. 28a of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control is explicitly provided that the report can only be carried out in a commercial company where the capital participation is state or municipal. He added that with the rule in art. 28a, para. 2 The establishment of mixed companies with a private entity is prohibited and the non-cash contributions will be made after a sanction of the Council of Ministers. With regard to the grounded argument for the lack of special rules for the deportation of separate parts, it was noted that the bill does not change the current regime, since it only regulates the action of non-units and the separate parts are subject to privatisation procedure under the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. As regards the withdrawal of the blocking quota, Mr. Kirilov noted that with the newly created provision the non-cash contribution will be made only in companies where the capital is either state and/or municipal, unlike the current provision allowing participation in companies in which the capital is not entirely their own, i.e. in companies where the capital may also be of private entities. He summarized that the decision to submit is taken by the Council of Ministers and with the removal of the possibility of trading companies from the prohibition list to import property into the capital of companies in which there is private participation, the need for the blocking quota institute to be removed. Kirilov stressed that the Bill provides sufficient guarantees to preserve the public interest while ensuring a legal opportunity for the state to participate in business life under clearly defined rules. Mr. Zarkov pointed out that from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) support the veto of the President and the reasons for him, adding that it is necessary to discuss the draft again. Mr. Mitev pointed out that the work on the Draft Law agreed on the proposed texts and the version of § 4 provides protection of the public interest, as decisions to make a non-cash contribution will be taken by the Council of Ministers, which is sufficient guarantee of transparency and publicity. He added that an aport would be carried out in companies where capital is only state and/or municipal. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 9 votes for the National Assembly, 3 votes against the National Assembly on 10 October 2018, proposed to the National Assembly that the Law amending the State Property Act, adopted by the National Assembly on 10 October 2018 be re-adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u74	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. My fellow Members, I am opening the debates. You have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Law amending and supplementing the State Property Act is a small bill from only three paragraphs, which in the process of their discussion rose to four. At the same time, this is a very important issue, which, in my opinion, has been left without due consideration, and today the composition of both fellow Members and citizens has proved it. That has its reasons. Firstly, the bill was tabled by MPs, not by the Council of Ministers, which predetermined the lack of public discussion. In the disputes in the Commission, then in the organized working group, main leaders, advocates of the bill were from the administration of the Council of Ministers. The motives are vague enough, bruised only that we are talking about editorial changes, about corrections in texts. The provisions have also been set out in my opinion vaguely enough. The Bill has made extremely significant changes, already as a principle, by colleagues during the second reading in the Legal Commission, which is leading, on the basis of exceptions in our rules. Did the bill not cause enough attention and accidentally pass through the hall?! I don't think it was an accident. As I had the opportunity to say in the discussions, this bill opens wide a door in a way that is contrary to the interest of both the state and the Bulgarian society. Do you think he's opening the door? In the reasons, the President calls this process a legal opportunity to hide, free privatisation of companies from the ban list by importing their properties and belongings. The real estate and property are the material expression of the body, the means by which the state implements its policy. In any case, the loss of such properties reduces the power and abilities of the state. It is for this reason that for many years the state has increased the properties and belongings with which it operated. We know there's been a change in policy. At the same time, however, after the disbanding process and after the changes in our society, there remained an important list of commercial companies that are of particular importance to the State, and these companies are not subject to privatisation. What is the great change? The major change lies in the fact that, until now, there has been not only a ban on the privatisation of commercial companies on this prohibition list, but also on the deportation of their own properties to other companies, i.e. commercial companies from the prohibition list, to lose property by means of advocacy to other companies. Which properties are referred to in this ban list because in the end this prejudges the importance of the question: all water companies; research institutes; BDZ; Sofia airport and other airports; ports; Not to mention, it's a long list. These are enterprises that form the source code of the Republic. So far, the Bulgarian state and society have been protected by an explicit legal ban. Now the ban, not repeating it and quoting the paragraphs, is becoming an assessment, and that is a political one. Revocation by § 1, para. 3 of art. 43, containing so far the ban, creating the new text in art. 28a of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, the possibility of importing properties belonging to companies on this list is created in other companies. Yes, state, but no longer on that list. Companies capable of operating can accumulate liabilities and these properties become a means of security, and subsequently a means of fulfilling their obligations. This is exactly what I think is the big door that opened this little bill. These are also the consequences that I refer to because the amendment of the State Property Act surrounds the privatisation process, which for companies on the ban list is in principle impossible, and by not being able to eat them completely and use them, we can provide the most delicious parts of certain properties to be eaten. The current law requires a decision of the National Assembly for privatization for parts of the enterprises in the prohibition list, and someone has invented that individual properties may not constitute separate parts within the meaning of the Law and take out piece by piece as with tweezers from the throat of a bottle. However, what would be a commercial company with a loud name, an example of Sofia airport, such as real estate, runways for take-off and landing, taxiing, or buildings gone?! It would be a name. This bill is another by which we change the regulations so that we make more refined, more modeled and ideal process for dismantling, for rearranging, but not for increasing the state's assets and abilities in these trading companies. It must be hard to manage, to store, to multiply something that someone else has built. Why is the President right, calling this process a hidden, free privatisation, and thus governed by law? It is governed by law because this law has been passed, these actions are no longer illegal and cannot be prosecuted. Why is it hidden? Because the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control provides for many regimes and procedures in which society receives information which, in the case of a report, cannot be obtained. Why is it free? Because at the time of the report, a cash contribution is not received, but shares are received by a company, which you will probably hear in a moment was also a state yes, and a legal expectation of dividends, but at the moment nothing. This bill circumvents provisions of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Controls, which are in the public interest "all requirements regarding how to use the amounts received from this property and would be derived from that property; all prohibitions on conflict of interest; all requirements for the provision of information to the public. It can be summarized with this legal change being placed on the counter protected to date enterprises, and allow me, given the behaviour and management of recent years and the extremely difficult state as a state system at the moment, to oppose this decision. The law, as proposed, is dangerous, so we will not support it, but support the president's veto. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Any lines to Mr. Milkov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u77	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I did not take a reply to the speech of colleague Milkov, which was actually the introduction to the motives of the debate, because in two minutes it will be difficult to counter the claims he introduced. For this reason, I am using the right to speak, despite the current state of the colleague, to spare him the right to a duplicate, and if he wants to make a replica of my speech. My fellow Members, I begin, first, with this, we have been very careful on this bill. Why were we so careful? Because matter is complicated. It's obvious she's hard to understand. It's obvious from the President's motives, and that the Members of the Presidency didn't understand much of this law, and if they understood something, the attempt is to manipulate and yet to engage in a trendy deliberate direction, something false, something dangerous, something scary. I won't speculate on what the BSP was doing at the time with the apports regime. I want us to approach basically and purely comparatively legally. We have one regime that is established in at least two laws. One law is the Law on State Property and the other law is the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Yes, my colleague Milkov rightly pointed out that I, although I am the ninth of the importers, as soon as the bill was signed, said: "Yes, but we will compare it very precisely. In addition to returning it three times to experts, we also made an expert working group that was held in the Ministry of Economy. It is true that the problem was posed by the Economic Ministry. It is true that the occasion was the presence of a nonexistent reference because you say it is being manipulated. There, you see her. [[shows text]] in the current text of art. 57, para. 3, the last part of the subparagraph. Indeed, the reference to the Public-Private Partnership Act has remained subject to State aid law. The specific reason, because it is also manipulated to, there is a problem with the fact that the State and the municipality cannot complete an application procedure in a joint state-owned company. Yes, this is the specific reason to establish this discrepancy in the regime of the State Property Act. These are the facts that have brought about, have served as the start of the legislative initiative in question, but believe me, there has never been a political debate on this issue in any form at all. I urged fellow opposition lawyers to participate actively in both the debate and the working group. I understand that colleagues also went to the Ministry of Economy in the task force. We had no contradictions that we had to get to such a regime where there was no doubt that the requirement to dispose of state property in any form of an advance or in the form of an order of real estate was reduced. In the debate on a second vote in Parliament, I have been absent from plenary. We were with the PACE delegation in Strasbourg at the time, but colleagues say there was no debate on this bill again. And then there's the President's decree and the reasons for his return. The decree, fellow Members, is extremely gluttonous. It's less than a page and a half, come on, you like diluted texts, but this one's not diluted. In a page and a half trying to introduce three groups of suggestions, colleague Milkov said them. I guess with some inconvenience he was saying them because he had to recreate a political hue of something that was entirely legal. Another point is that it is not true either. I start with three groups of alleged arguments, quasi arguments, fictional arguments: hidden free privatisation. What's the secret? The decision to submit a report shall be taken by the Council of Ministers. This is a guarantee of publicity and transparency. I commented on it yesterday and on the Legal Commission "The decisions of the Council of Ministers are subject to appeal and judicial review. Where's the hiding? Here I will raise the question: at the time when Rumen Ovcharov was Minister of Economy, how, in what order was the decision for an annex taken? Tell me, colleagues! Was there any legal text? If there was no legal text on the Ordinance, how was the decision taken? I will not comment here that the entire manipulation was built on the basis of the mixing of privatisation, sale, with the legal deal of the aport. Colleagues, this has nothing to do with this. I repeat, it has nothing to do with this. And that MPs who are non-Juristic shouldn't mix it up. They should not accept the claims of colleague Milkov and the president that, if you see, nothing was working, a property was given in one company and nothing was working. It's not like that, guys. Half or most often more than half of the company is obtained, i.e. participation in management, property, dividend and other property consequences in management, disposition of a commercial company. Yes, this decision is particularly special, and that is why in the adopted law we have said that here, however, all other laws will be respected. If such a decision is taken, the nature of the report accordingly, all other requirements of the Law, including those for State aid, shall be complied with. Colleagues, what have we arranged for this law? Colleague Milkov also warned you. We've arranged for the mutual report to call it an internal institutional quasi-commercial report, an import of state property in a company in which the other partner is the municipality. Or vice versa, an admission of municipal property to a company that is state-owned. So where is the public interest disturbed?! Both manifestations of public interest are protected, colleagues. It is also manipulated by the concept of a prohibition list. Colleagues, remember the debates of the previous National Assembly. Yes, there were cases then, there was a dispute between the Privatization Agency and one of the parliamentary groups at the time on this: is a privatisation procedure acceptable for a separate part of a company that is on the ban list? Colleagues, we are laying down a clear and clear regulation on this. If someone has not understood or wants to continue manipulating, let me read all three paragraphs of the new article, which we systematically referred to in the Privatization Act and post-privatization control as a new article. 28a. Here, look at the regime, because you may have forgotten from October 10 what we have accepted: In the case of property or property which is not part of a commercial company, which is included in the list under art. 3 The prohibition list is carried out after a decision of the Council of Ministers on a proposal by the authority exercising property rights in the capital of the company. (2) Aport may be carried out only in a commercial company in which the sole owner of the capital is a company under para. 1 as well as in a trading company in which the company under para. 1 holds part of the capital and the remaining participation in the capital is state or municipal. Well, what greater guarantees are to be provided for in an apport?! The Council of Ministers and the mutual insurrection of the... I repeat... I use and do not claim that these are established concepts.........................................................................I use again................................................................................................................................................................. To conclude, with this arrangement, we have actually filled a gap. You didn't make a single suggestion. If you had any doubt, colleagues, you should have written it between first and second readings. Come on, I'm leaving no part in the debate, no second reading, but if you'd done it as a written proposal, having an opposition proposal. Here's what the President falsely wrote, you should have presented it and, as lawyers, let's sit down constructively and say: how, say your expression, your text on this. I'm inviting you again, tell me. And yesterday, you should have told paragraph 1 to do so, point 2 you challenged paragraph 4 to become one and the same. Tell me! Looks like I'm gonna be answering your backs, too, so I'm interrupting the speech here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u78	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Will there be lines? Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u79	Madam President, honourable Members! I use the right to a line because I was provoked. The material is complicated and not understood. Some have participated in a task force. The material is complicated, but I understand it. The task force at the Ministry of Economy wasn't someone, but I was involved. The material was submitted at second reading to the Legal Commission and the concerns I expressed quite wisely on one Friday began a working group in the Ministry of Economy. Although the bill was tabled by MPs, I went, I set out my observations, where the questions I had to ask the parliamentary control made me return to our building and I was not present in the final formulation and achievement of these final results. Look, it's not that legal. I enjoy talking about law, but in the case of complicated language, clear political results are achieved. What does an internal institutional report mean and the things I hear in this case? If a state-owned company is on the ban list and one property is removed and it goes to another state-owned or municipal company, which is no longer on that list, is changing, everyone understands it, the company status, which is no longer on that ban list, is changing and the possible attitude of all trade turnover towards that property. This property may be a reason to be fulfilled on it if the company accumulates debts and no longer belongs to a company on the prohibition list. Those are our concerns. In terms of hidden privatization. See, in the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, there is absolutely nothing with the procedure of announcing the agenda at a meeting of the Council of Ministers and making a political decision from it, while in the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control there are so many mechanisms on the way to their realization to protect public interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u80	Mr. Milkov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u81	I'm done. So that's why it's called hidden. Once again, colleagues, the issue is not as legal as it is political. Ninety-eight percent of state property, which was subject to privatisation, has been privatized. I believe that this bill reaches out and extends its hand to assets that should remain source code and protected for the state. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u82	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Second line, come in, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, you asked what procedure were carried out at the time. Not at all. It was just forbidden. What does it say? 2:? 3 is canceled.? Let's see in the current law what is written in para. 3? Alinea 3 of art. 43 of the Law begins with the word "no" and is the following: "No property or property belonging to commercial companies can be imported." It is included in Annex No 1, the so-called prohibition list. You want this exception by para. 3 to be canceled, canceled. What do you really want? I'm going to try to explain in a non-legal language what it's all about. Imagine that a company, say, for example, Sofia airport with all its assets, buildings, cars, which is on this ban list. Now with this change you say that these buildings, these cars can go to another company, which is said to say: However, this other company is not included in the prohibition list. Take these buildings, these cars, all these assets from Sofia airport, go to the other company and there they can now be privatized. This company can now be privatized. Yes, Sofia airport will remain on this ban list again I say an example, but it will be hollow, it will be a hollow package with no content, a hollow company and there will be no assets in it. Why, then, if you do not aim the so-called hidden privatization, which is very correctly described here in the motives, you will want and offer this para. 3 of art. 43 cancel? That's exactly what you're after. The President in the reasons of his decree said it very clearly: "The report has a translative effect and the object of the report becomes property. " This is already in the legal language of the company in which it was made without the exporter receiving a counterpayment. When the report is made in a company that is not on the ban list That's what it's all about. Because, what is a company? It shall be established on the basis of the contributions of its founders. One option is cash contributions, the other is an aport, property rights, claims, claims, these are the advocacy contributions. When you empty this company out of content, its assets again repeat, movable, real estate transfer them to another as an advance payment that can be privatized. That's what we're talking about, hidden privatization, and it's so clear that there's nowhere to go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u84	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Third line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, my reply is more like a question because I listened to my colleagues replicating and I immediately had a question about how in 2007 "2008," even though Holding "Terem" is on the ban list as a fundamental part of national security, individual factories and plots of the holding were privatized? I can think of an example of "Terem" - Georgi Benkovski - more known as "Avionams" - which was privatized in 2008, although it is part of the holding "Terem" - which is on the ban list. Some people then privatized not only factories, but factories that are of national security, which are essential for maintaining combat capabilities. Because this plant to this day is actually repairing parts for airplanes and helicopters, but at that time it was privatized and in a very interesting way. How, when colleagues explain that this was not possible and it was never practice, did they actually do it during their governments?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u87	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, honored guests, honourable colleagues you have replicated! I'll try in the short time to give the most detailed answer to all the questions that have been asked. I'm going to start backwards on the matter that my colleague Gajev put up. I don't know, colleague Gazhev, obviously in the defence industry it was very bright and transparent and I didn't understand how exactly the privatized part of another state-owned company was privatized. I also do not know the details in which their subsidiaries were privatized to foreign trade companies at the time. I don't know how it happened. I don't know about this one or that one, how the subsidiaries, so-called behind-the-counter companies, were privatized. [[Reply: A for the Fair to Know?]] Alas, I don't know about the Fair either. I'm going back to legal matters. Colleagues, you forget and manipulate the fact that the blocking quota remains, the text about the blocking quota remains! It is unchanged and there is no way in this situation to abuse the subsequent order: para. 4 of art. 57 remains "where the subject of the contribution is a property right on property or property of private government property, the person who has committed it has a blocking quota! This is the principle both in the Law on State Property and in the Law on concessions, which, colleagues, is also applicable in parallel with the Law on State Aid. I don't have enough time. Quick reproduction following the example of colleague Philip Popov. Colleague, there are a lot of buses at the airport that passengers ride from the terminal to the plane and back. If these buses are depreciated, Mr. Svilenski specializes in this, for example 70 buses are depreciated at Sofia airport, and Sofia Airport is very keen to give them to the company. We give them to Vidin. We follow the procedure of the municipal company, but Sofia Airport becomes a shareholder in the company. And there's still the ban. No one can make subsequent sales with those already over-immortized both at the airport and in Vidin buses. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Sorry about the weather, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u88	It's okay, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Zarkov, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u89	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honourable Members! This is the 10th in a veto of the President for this term of office of the 44th National Assembly. And if we examine the legislative process, the legislation of this Assembly and the veto of the President, we will notice that some signs are beginning to emerge on which her bill will be detected make us doubt its real goals. In this bill, the State Property Act we are discussing, I have identified seven such marks, scars that each of us sees, must have one in mind. First scar. The bill has been tabled by MPs, although the Commission has since the first reading, it has been clear from the very beginning that both the initiative and the work on this bill is the Ministry of Economy. That means the importer is hiding behind the MPs. Why? Second scar. The bill is supported by the entire majority, but is tabled by the small coalition partner. The MPs of GERB the big partner are hiding after the eighth place back. Why? Third scar. The impact assessment attached to the Bill is entirely formal. Check it out, you've got materials in front of you. There is no difference between the impact assessment and the reasons of the bill. The same things are written. That is to say, the requirements of the Rules are fulfilled. And impact assessment is very important. It's a fourth scar. All, absolutely all of the texts are revised, rewritten between first and second readings. The bill submitted at first reading is not the bill that comes out after the end of the procedure in any text! The texts have been amended according to a specific procedure..................................................................................................... 83 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. at the Commission meeting at the second reading. There are no deadlines for putting proposals between first and second readings. There is no period in which these proposals are on the site so that they can be seen not only by us, but also by people who are interested in matter. There is, in the end, no responsibility, because no one knows exactly how to get into the turbulent debate of the Commission, in which MEPs are involved, and experts, which also mention a working group where someone has been somewhere, have been involved, someone else has not. It's a fifth scar. A text appears in the "Transitional and Final Provisions" which makes an amendment to another law and which is not discussed at first reading at all! Thus a whole law is changed without complying with the constitutional requirement for two readings, and, of course, this has been done according to the same procedure in art. 83, i.e. in a Commission dialogue regime. A sixth scar, which, when it happens, when you notice, you may ask yourself what happens. There is a specific case behind the bill. According to the importers, at the very first reading in the Legal Commission, held on 11 June 2018, it is said that the whole bill had the idea coming from contradictions in the texts which were identified by the Ministry of Justice, along with problems of an industrial zone in Burgas, which is owned between the state and the municipality. I'm not aware of the specific case of the industrial zone, whether or not we should intervene there. I am sure that the law for a particular case is by definition vicious, for the simple reason that it can work well in this case, but will apply in all cases from now on. What may seem good to you for the Burgas industrial zone may lead to exactly what my colleagues and the President have been talking about from the very beginning. Whether it's targeted or not is another matter we're going to go on with. Seventh, the last sign that the bill was wrong. The bill is openly trying to circumvent another law, namely in this case the one about privatisation and post-privatization control. This creates reasonable doubt about its real goals. That is, in one law, we say, we forbid privatisation, that is to put into private hands certain enterprises, because they are structurally determining for the Bulgarian economy or because they are important for our national security, and so on, we make it noisy. Recently, by the way, new restrictions were adopted here regarding the properties of diplomatic companies and so on. We make it loud, announce one goal, but with another bill we try to bypass it. The result of this is that in the Bulgarian legislation there is almost no text against which to find another text equal in force and vice versa. When we talk about chaos at the station, that's the way it is. Let's recap. The real importers of this bill tried to hide. The real goals of this bill are being withheld. Parliamentary procedures have been turned into a tedious formality. Then how can there not arise the doubts that the President of the Republic cannot simply pass? Is anyone still surprised at the all-powerful climate of distrust that lies outside this room? And then you say there is no political debate. You're right, Mr. Kirilov, there was no political debate because everything possible was done not to happen. It's not a legal issue at all. You can't expect us to say........................................... and change some commas. The question is deeply political about how the state feels it must act in its economy, what levers it must have in order to regulate, ultimately, in order to manage. And now, because we often talk about an alternative, I want to tell you that there could have been such a debate. Such a debate could have been held quite calmly. You had the right to put it there. For example, the Council of Ministers, at the initiative of the Ministry of Economy, could not hide, but introduce the Bill and honestly say that they continue to confess the policy of disabling, that the ideology of this government is this policy, that it started with the Law on concessions and this is its natural continuation that the policy of this government confesses the idea that the state is a bad owner [[That's not true!]] that this government's policy from the beginning leads to this line and will continue to the end of its mandate, however long it may be. You have absolutely the right to say it, and you would have come across opposition, you would have confronted us because we disagree because we believe that the state is not a bad ruler, but certain rulers are bad statesmen. This is completely different. Because we believe that there is a way for the state to participate in the economic life of the country. It would have been a legislative debate because of your secret privatisation law, we would have answered our laws to ban concessions from companies on the ban list, for Sofia Airport and for others already in Parliament's Law, for the bill which we will soon submit for a new way of managing state companies, not to look for how to get rid of them, but to look for how to manage them otherwise. Then, in other words, we would find ourselves involved in a real political debate and we would be worthy of this House. But no, you preferred and preferred to go down the path of wiles, of procedural grasps, of different legislative equilibristics. And there's probably a reason for that. The reason is that you feel that you cannot win the political debate where it is located. I'm sure you have your reasons. You need to understand clearly once and for all, this is the 10th time that shows you that the time for the tricks has passed, that about two years ago the Bulgarian people chose a president who proved during this time that he held the rules, the Constitution and the legality, including the honesty of the legislative process. These are objectives that we support. That's why we're going to support this veto of his. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! Please extend the group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u92	Extend the time of all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u93	Dear Mr. Zarkov, I am making this remark in relation to the fact that I do not agree with one finding from your statement. It is as follows: that the objectives and motives of the amendments to this bill are not clear. For me, the objectives are crystal clear and they are linked again to a breach of state interest. I will remind you of the previous veto of the President, which was imposed under the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act. At the time, it was a breach of state interest by 58 million. lv. It was also clear the name of the addressee who had to benefit from this decision. With today's decision and today's change in the Bill, it simply cannot be said what is the exact number of the amount by which the state interest will be damaged. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. Second line? Mr. Kirilov, for the second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u95	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Since the opposition will extend its debate time this way, in this situation I will also make a clear reply to my colleague Zarkov because his speech was amazing. My amazement is this way. There were no legal arguments in it, but there were once again political suggestions. There were some signs. Colleagues around me used to say, "Is this an artistic analysis of a picture?" I don't know who put them in there. The smart and beautiful or a magazine that has certain interests in this debate? I don't know where they're from. And there are signs of suspicion. There's a nice anecdote about suspicions, but it's not right for me to tell it from the parliamentary tribune. Colleagues, it's not about suspicion, it's about facts. If you have facts, get them out! We have a lot of facts. To me, if you give me five hours of parliamentary time, I can talk to you about separate privatisation deals, if you add Sofia Municipality and I talk to you about Stefan Sofiansky's joint weddings, I'll talk to you for another seven hours. We are not going to ask about the Stara Planina. The 51 decares of the South Park are being imported from the Sofia Estates! By my parliamentary criterion, Mr. Zarkov, it is important for this debate that the procedure has been opened. You did not wish, again I say, either with written proposals or otherwise constructively to participate. Yeah, the presidential lawyers didn't understand.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. For the third line please, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Zarkov, I sincerely sympathize with you. I sympathize with you because in your speech we really did not hear any legal argument. The only arguments we heard were political, and I understand. I also understand colleague Milkov, who spoke earlier, because in the entire parliamentary procedure for the adoption of this bill, particularly at second reading, we have heard no argument against these provisions, no legal argument why they should not be adopted. On the contrary, the bill was passed without any debate at a second vote in plenary. I remind you that then, colleagues of BSP, you did not take attitude. I was expecting to hear some arguments on the bill from you, and I understand that now the only reason we're listening to political analyses here, but not legal ones that you need to protect the president's veto. It is clear that if you had a similar position, you would have expressed it during the second reading, it is clear that we are already in a situation where you have to protect the non-constant legal and political motives contained in the veto. I will not repeat the arguments that my colleague Kirilov said regarding the state interest. Any impartial lawyer who carefully reads the provisions will see that in fact the state interest is protected, publicity and transparency are protected precisely by the requirement to pronounce the Council of Ministers I understand that you draw your arguments from how you manage and how you dispose of state property. But don't think everyone's like you. Thank you. [[Applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u98	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. Colleagues, please state if there will be any other speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u99	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen replicating, thank you for your lines. There's no legal argument, there's no need for a legal argument. This debate is not legal, honourable Members. This is not an expert argument, so we didn't participate in it. Here is not to comma or two, here is, as you can see, the country's governance in its economic part, its economic role. What I've been trying to tell you, and obviously I didn't understand, is that you might have the opinion you have. You have that right, and this clash will take place whether you want to or not. What you shouldn't do is say that you think one thing when you talk about the Privatization Act, but do something else under a Surdine with the State Property Act. That trick never works. Period! Second, no one understands you. We don't understand you, the presidential lawyers don't understand you, the public doesn't understand you, the media don't understand you, only you understand each other! What language are we speaking? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I would also like to say this: by the way, that my analysis was artistic can only pass for insult in this part of the room. We're not offended. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] With regard to sympathy, Mr. Mitev, I do not need your sympathy, but thank you for it. For my part, I would have more reason to feel sympathy for you because it was by your name that they went by art. 83 and when tomorrow's inevitable scandals pass one after another, your name will be lit up in the archives of parliament. You don't deserve it. [[Voice "Bravo!" and applause from "BSP" for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u100	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Mr. Gurnevsky wants a statement. [[Voice "Eee!" by "BSP for Bulgaria" and noise by GERB.]] Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! Indeed, there should have been a debate on whether the state is a good owner, whether it governs well or not, and this debate ended in 1989, when the Bulgarian Communist Party ruled all the state property, both the sky and the waters, and underground. He didn't have any opposition, and he was so good at ruling that he went bankrupt. Announcing bankruptcy. And as one of your MPs said in an interview in June,......................... our party in the face of our leaders.. Comrade Mladenov, Comrade Lukanov and Comrade Georgi Atanasov, directed the party towards capitalism. Unfortunately, they built such ugly capitalism, the ugliest in Europe, that the state was...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u102	On the subject, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u103	...grabbed by the nomenclature and more than 2 million young Bulgarians left the country.... what you constantly accuse those who were not in power at all then. [[Applause by MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov.]] When you talk, Mr. Zarkov, about economics and government, make a distinction between privatization, between that hidden, that fraud privatization that was carried out by your party. During the time of your leader with the old vision, today you have a new vision, were taken out of the banned list of companies, businesses, including Plovdiv Fair, the ugly privatisation that the Secretary of the Central Committee of the BCP wrote about. Make a distinction between privatization and concession, because worldwide the concession is the most modern and secure means for a state to manage its own property, for which it does not have the means necessary when it will entrust it for a certain period of time to someone. The one with his capital will develop it, will pay a concession contribution to the state, will make a modern enterprise or firm, and in 20 years it is back to the state. This is how state property is managed. This is why GERB resorts to these forms of security and modern government in the state, rather than to the outlaw privatization. "In the words of Stoyan Mihailov, the secretary of the CCP of the BCP, carried out by the communist nomenclature and by the authorities of the State Security. I think Mr. Zarkov has family and has someone to ask about this privatization. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u104	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Come in, Mr. Zablyanov. Second line, Mr. Kutev, and third line, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u105	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! It is not good when the debate reaches such heights, but whenever there is a challenge to the truth, consideration should be taken. The question of the role and place of the Bulgarian Socialist Party in the process of privatization...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u106	Who's the line to?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u107	To Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u108	The line is to Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u109	Keep an eye on him, Mr. Lazarov. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Ask Mr. Lazarov to give me a chance to finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u110	Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u111	Thank you. Mr. Gurnevski, the truth about Bulgarian privatization is complicated. It is true that the Bulgarian Communist Party in the mid 1980s with several decrees created the first mechanisms for the private initiative in Bulgaria. Then they were welcomed with the approval of the Bulgarian people. The big change has come. Then Mr. Ivan Kostov's government made the grand privatization the greatest privatization! He also made mass privatization, Mr. Gurnevski, and Mr. Stefan Sofianski as mayor of Sofia made the great restitution and the great privatization. Historical truth requires that this be said. Of course, all Bulgarian citizens participated in the privatisation [[GERB noise and shouting]] Whoa, whoa, whoa,
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u112	Colleagues, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u113	...listen after the comma, listen after the comma...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u114	Go on, Mr. Jablyanov. Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u115	...who had financial opportunities, power positions and a desire to acquire property. This privatisation in Bulgaria was not fair, it was not productive and led the Bulgarian economy to a dead end. After we have reached our conclusions, we should stop these wicked practices today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u116	Wicked?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u117	That is why the President vetoed, and you cannot apologize for today's reproaching position by pointing out selected historical facts. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u118	Second line, here you go, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Kutev has a second line, Mr. Shopov, third line to complete the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u119	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Gurnevsky, I usually avoid getting into disputes the way you lead them, because I think they're destructive, but I'm still going to intervene here because it's something that seems important to me at the moment. I don't want to deal with how privatisation went, because we all know that, and we have a very clear idea of how it went. I want to focus a little on this: what is the role of the country you were talking about? It's not really about me historically how this all went, but it's about how it's gonna go on. Because the past is that of at least 100 privatized enterprises, which I can remember, there is now one or two. Each of you can list the enterprises that remember that they were privatized during this period, there are currently one or two remaining. In other words, the privatisation has 1.. 2% success rate, the other 99% were ruined, not privatized. How, in this situation, are you telling me that the state was a bad owner? There's nothing like it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u120	It's Technoimpex.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u121	At the moment, as a parliament, we need to rethink the role of the state, find the country where it belongs, because it has a place in both the economy and the ERP. The fact that Kozloduy's nuclear power plant was state-owned didn't do anything wrong except make the electricity price lower. Because if it wasn't government, but private, the current would be twice as expensive now. In other words, the role of the state is now very important. It is important in security, in healthcare, in education, in the economy. This is the conversation that the National Assembly should be having, and if you are having it, I am here for you. If we're going to have this conversation about what Ivan Kostov did and who sold it for 200,000, we can have it, but for me it's not important that we continue from now on and you, when you leave parliament, will you carry the conscience that you've done something useful because with the conversation you've had, you won't carry it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u122	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Shopov, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Fellow Members, the debate we are having on the President's veto has begun to make sense in its last part, where we have started to give assessments of privatisation at all and its historical aspects, and it is in connection with the bill we are discussing and which has been returned by the President, practically does not matter. I'm telling you, and don't speculate that something was going to change and the state interest would be violated. Several things have been said in the room that matter not to create public amnesia. Public memory is terribly short and it is interpreted in a very unfair way. The biggest problem for Bulgaria the state was devastated, the Bulgarian economy was broken down, the state property was robbed during a fatal, idiotic and thieving management of Prime Minister Ivan Kostov. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u124	Mr. Shopov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u125	No one here should forget that fact. I'll tell you just one number, 2680 enterprises that were spilled out, destroyed and privatized. [[noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] , robbed only by the means of the outlaw-mentardian privatization. I repeat to you again: 2680 enterprises - the backbone of the Bulgarian economy! I am not talking about those who were destroyed and robbed in the way of mass privatization, in negotiations with a potential buyer, and I would continue the endless other techniques - they are many, of robbing state property. No one should forget that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u126	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u127	We'll be MPs in this meeting, we've been to past meetings, and some won't be. But we need to understand clearly what was the time of the cruelest, scariest robbery in Bulgaria, and these things should not be forgotten.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u128	Your time is up, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u129	And another assessment of the Satanized former Attorney General, my esteemed Mr. Filchev. Thirty billion have been taken away, robbed again at this time and with the means I am talking about. Let's see what we do without speculation, and today's problem that you are exposing is not a problem. The state will not be harmed, the state property will not be taken away. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u130	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Here you go, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, Mr. Zablyanov is right that in 1997 the privatisation began. He said very correctly that people who had financial opportunities could participate in it. Financial opportunities to participate had those who privatized the foreign trade companies where the state money was invaded. If you don't know how it works, ask Mrs. Ninova. [[Applause from GERB. Announcements from BSP for Bulgaria: "Eee! "]] Financial opportunities had those in the government of the Mafia, of Berov, with the mandate of the DPS created the Bulgarian mafia and plundered the savings of the people through the banks and all this happened until 1996. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Those all credit millionaires, up to one related to the State Security Officers, snitches and so on, and with the foreign trading companies the communist nomenclature. Ask Mr. Mirchev's grandfather, he'll explain better, the man wrote it. So those who have money can participate. Yeah, outlaw-manager privatization from all over. Those outlaws and managers who looted the country until 1996, then bought it out! [[Noise and lines from the BSP for Bulgaria "Yesterday we saw them in the Council of Ministers"]] I ask: where is GERB, where are the United Patriarchs and where are those to whom you are heirs? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I was at the SDS and there was Mrs. Ninova, only I didn't privatize a square inch, and ask her what she privatized. So my conscience is clear! Ask Mrs. Ninova, except as a privatist for capitalist, ask her as a communist director in the communist government. At the same time, he is Deputy Minister and Chairman of the Board of the Fair let him give us a lecture on how the Fair disappeared from the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u132	On the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u133	That's how communist directors rule! If we go back to the oligarchs you're talking about, because you're talking general talk, Mr. Zarkov, but I didn't hear a name. Quick walk of the prominent oligarchs in the last two months are quoted: Bencho Benchev "Burgas," untold wealth from the Bulgarian people associated with the BCP; we are passing through Karnobat "Minyo Stykov," untold wealth related to the BCP; the informer of the State Security Vetko Arabadjiev........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ And Georgi Gergov is a member of the Central Committee of the Party. He himself said: "When I go to the captivity of the BCP, I cannot list the millionaires. Bless you! [[Applause from GERB. Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u134	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Mr. Popov, in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u135	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, please, when such false and disturbing songs about the recent and distant past are heard from this platform [[noise, lines and cheers by GERB]] which Mr. Gurnevsky said just now and shortly before he was interrupted. This attempt to shift the debate and the topic, which happens once again in this National Assembly, only with your timid topic, Mr. Gurnevski. It will not pass because it does not correspond to the height of the stand that you occupy. Mr. Gurnevsky is never on the subject, except when he talks about some distant past and, again, I repeat: with falsely disturbed songs. Therefore you should have interrupted it, taken away his word and returned it to the subject, and the topic is: is there a hidden privatisation with this law? Yes, there is! That's it! Thank you. [[(Applause and lines from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u136	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Guys, are there any other speeches? I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber. I re-vote the Law amending the State Property Act adopted by the National Assembly on 10 October 2018. They voted 210 MPs: for 145, against 65, there is no abstention. The proposal has been adopted and the Law amending the Law on State Property has been adopted. The law will be sent to the President of the Republic for promulgation in the Official Journal of the Republic within 7 days of receipt and according to art. 101, para. 3 of the Constitution. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u137	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing procedure on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure concerning the extension of the term of the Treaty of United Nations Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 853-14-10, of 19 October 2018. I propose that the deadline is the maximum three weeks for submission of proposals under this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u138	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. I put to the vote Mr. Velchev's proposal for a maximum extension of the period between the first and second reading of the Religions Act. Vote 108 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, an exhibition on environmental protests and the origin of civil society in Bulgaria will be opened in the Northern lobby. The exhibition is dedicated to the 30th anniversary of the creation of the Ruse Self Protection Movement and the first manifestations of the emerging civil society in Bulgaria. The exhibition follows the chronology of the events in 1987. All MPs are invited to the opening. Thirty-minute recess, start of the 12:00 session. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u139	Colleagues, we're starting work. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: PROJECT OF THE ANNUAL WORKING PROGRAM OF PEOPLE'S COLLECTION FOR THE QUESTIONS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. Dear Mr Vigenin, you have the floor to present the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the draft annual work programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues At its regular meeting held on 21 September 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds on the basis of § 10 of the Final Rules of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly discussed and adopted a draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2018. The draft programme was developed in line with the priorities of the Triple Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the priorities of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2018, the European Commission Work Programme for 2018 and the proposals made by the Permanent Parliamentary Committees of the National Assembly. In its 2018 Work Programme, the European Commission proposes 26 new initiatives in line with the ten priorities set by President Jean-Claude Juncker for the period 2015 - 2019: 1. New incentives for jobs, growth and investment; 2. Connected digital single market; 3. Sustainable energy union with a future-oriented climate change policy; 4. A deeper and fairer internal market with an enhanced industrial base; 5. More in-depth and fairer economic and monetary union; 6. A reasonable and balanced free trade agreement with the United States; 7. Area of justice and fundamental rights built on mutual trust; 8. The creation of a new migration policy; 9. A stronger player on the world stage; 10. A union of democratic change. In addition, the European Commission proposes 12 new initiatives under the ReFIT. According to § 10, para. 1 of the Final Provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly The Council of Ministers does not have an obligation for 2018 to submit to the National Assembly an annual programme for the participation of the Republic of Bulgaria in the decision-making process of the European Union. In the Programme of the Triple Presidency of the Council of the European Union, the following high priority areas are included: - Union for Jobs, Growth and Competitiveness; - a Union that provides all its citizens with opportunities for action and protects them; - to an Energy Union with a future climate policy; - Union of Freedom, Security and Justice; - The Union as a powerful factor on the world stage. The Programme of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union focuses on the following areas: - the future of Europe and young people.. economic growth and social cohesion. - security and stability in a strong and unified Europe; - European perspective and connectivity of the Western Balkans; - digital economy and skills of the future. During the preparation of the draft Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs (2018), the National Assembly's annual work programme was prepared.The following considerations were also taken into account: - checks for compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality of the European legislative proposals included in the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union issues will be carried out by active exercise of the powers of the National Assembly under Protocol 2 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; - in principle, the Annual Work Programme shall prioritise draft acts of a legislative nature and enable the National Assembly to participate effectively on the European agenda. Taking into account the expired deadlines under Protocol 2 on a number of the proposals of the European Commission, the National Assembly should focus by the end of 2018 on political dialogue with the European institutions, including non-legal initiatives. After the discussion the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds took place on the basis of art. 118, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose by 8 votes for the National Assembly to adopt the following decision for the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs 2018: Project! DECISION adopting the Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2018 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and § 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED It shall adopt the following Annual Working Programme of the National Assembly on European Union Affairs for 2018. The National Assembly shall be chaired by: - the enhanced role of national parliaments in the decision-making process of the European Union under the Treaty of Lisbon and their influence in formulating European policies; - respect for the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality in the European legislative process; - the importance of the European acts on the socio-economic development of the Republic of Bulgaria to achieve smart, sustainable and inclusive growth in the implementation of the Europe 2020 Strategy, decide to exercise its powers under art. 105, para. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by subjecting the procedure of parliamentary supervision and control of Chapter 11 of Art. Art. 118 to art. 121 including the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the following draft acts of the European institutions: 1. a comprehensive proposal for the future multiannual financial framework after 2020; 2. follow-up to the solidarity dimension of the energy union, including a proposal on common rules for gas pipelines entering the European internal gas market; 3. a package on social justice: A proposal for the creation of a European labour market body; an initiative for access to social protection for self-employed persons with an atypical form of employment; an initiative for a European social security number which can be used in all policy areas where it is applicable; a review by REFIT of the directive on the obligation of written application establishing an obligation for the employer to inform workers of the conditions applicable to the contract or employment relationship; 4. proposal to improve the food supply chain; 5. Communication on the possible creation of the permanent European Minister of Economy and Finance, which is subject to democratic control (non-legal initiative); 6. communication on the possible extension of the tasks of the new European Public Prosecutor's Office to include among them the fight against terrorism on the basis of Article 86 (4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union (non-legal initiative); 7. initiative to strengthen the implementation of the principles of the rule of law in the European Union (non-legal initiative); 8. a strategy for Serbia-Montenegro's successful accession, such as best-prepared candidates from the Western Balkans, with a special emphasis on rule of law, fundamental rights, the fight against corruption and organised crime and on the overall stability of the region (non-legal initiative); 9. Communication on the possibility of further increasing the use of qualified majority voting within the framework of the common foreign policy on the basis of Article 31 (3) of the Treaty on European Union, as well as improving the coherence of the common foreign policy (non-legal initiative); 10. Communication on the further strengthening of subsidiarity, proportionality and better regulation in the day-to-day work of the European Union (non-legal initiative).
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Colleagues, you have a say in this. Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u142	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In a nutshell, because we led the first Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in the first half of 2018, in some way we did not have the administrative capacity of the Council of Ministers to fulfil its obligations under the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, so these Rules were changed at the beginning of the year. Then we, in order to implement the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, again made a change in the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, finally exempting the Council of Ministers from the commitment to draw up this Annual Work Programme and it is currently being drawn up by the National Assembly. Let me draw attention to the fact that this Annual Work Programme is for 2018. By the end of 2018, there are only two months left, so for us this is a formal obligation and its deadline is actually over. In these proposals Mr. Vigenin made, there are legislation. For the most part, there are also non-legal initiatives. We will try in the last two months, which remain on 2018, in some way to work on them. I would also like to say that the Committee on European Affairs and European Funds must prepare for the next 2019 Annual Work Programme, because yesterday on 23 October, the European Commission came up with the new 2019 Annual Work Programme with three main priorities for next year. I'm gonna say it because I don't think they've become publicly available yet: 1. Quickly agree on the legislative proposals already submitted. 2. Achieve the 10 political priorities. 3. Adopting a limited number of new initiatives to address unresolved challenges and to present several initiatives with a view to the future of the European Union in the 27 Member States. I call on you to support today's Commission proposal on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and to work both for 2018 and for the 2019 Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u143	Thank you, dear Mrs. Grozdanova. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I thank Mrs. Grozdanova for the details she has made. To share one more thing, what is to come is that, on the basis of the European Commission's programme, which was presented yesterday, we expect the Council of Ministers to draw up a government programme for next year. We had released him from the obligation only for 2018. Perhaps the Council of Ministers' Programme will be ready by the end of January. It will be submitted to the National Assembly, so I count on it in the first months of 2019 to be able to adopt the National Assembly's Programme on the basis of the government's priorities as quickly as possible. However, this does not mean that after the recent amendments to the Rules we cannot initiate some of our decisions ourselves and before such a programme is proposed by the Council of Ministers. To clarify that some of the priorities in our programme, which we are adopting today, will be continued in the next year. We will be able to continue implementing this programme for 2018 and in early 2019 until the adoption of our programme for 2019. There's going to be a commitment. What we are doing today is somewhat formal, but it still gives us the opportunity to have the next two, three to four months the programme on which to work both the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds and the relevant committees, which have priorities that are in their field of activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the decision to adopt the National Assembly's Annual Work Programme on European Union Affairs for 2018 with the text presented by the President of the European Affairs and Control Committee on European Funds. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Moving on to the next point of the program: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR PROFESSIONAL MOVEMENT AND LEARNING. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Ms. Damyanova, you have the floor to present the Report of the Committee on Education and Science.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u146	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Before that, I ask for a procedure of admission in the hall of Tanya Mihailova, Deputy Minister of Education and Science; and Mrs Krasimira Brozi, Secretary General of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u147	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 95 MPs: for 94, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Please invite those admitted. Please continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u148	The Council of Ministers submitted a report on the second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training, No 802-01-26, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 16 July 2018, adopted on the first vote on 20 September 2018. The Law on Vocational Education and Training was amended and supplemented by the Law on Vocational Education and Training (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2009 concerning the placing of plant protection products on the The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u149	Colleagues, do we have any speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote four texts supported by the Commission, namely: the first is on the name of the Law, the second is on § 1, the next is on § 2 by importer and the fourth is on the text of § 3 by importer. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u150	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u151	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall vote on the import texts for paragraphs 4, 5, 6 and 7, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u152	Under paragraph 8, there is a proposal from the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs: In § 8, in the established article entitled.. Information database for employers who are responsible........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 7 is The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u153	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u154	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable colleagues, the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Law on Vocational Education and Training was presented by the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria and the Committee on Education and Science at meetings with directors and representatives of the business. The bill is welcomed, fellow directors believe that it is timely and brings good regulation into the system of vocational education. What's our offer? Since in art. 17a3 requirements are introduced for employers who wish to participate in a partnership for carrying out training through work and in art. 17a4 shall be established an information base for employers who meet the requirements for carrying out training through work or dual training system. In para. 7 Read: "Worker who meets the requirements of art. 17a3, but have not applied for inclusion in the information database, may participate in training partnerships through work, dual training system, including contracts with the institution under art. 17a, para. 1, t. 1 or 2 on the basis of a decision of the Director of the institution. 17a3 shall be certified by the employer by means of a model declaration approved by the Minister of Economy, which shall be annexed to the contract concluded with the institution. Our proposal is for Paragraph 8 to be dropped. 7, that is, employers who meet the requirements and are included in the information system only to be able to conclude contracts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u155	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. - What's the line? No. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 92 MPs: 21, against 42, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 8, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 81 against 1, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u156	Under paragraph 9, there is a proposal from the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs: Paragraph 9 is out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u157	Statements? You have the floor, Mrs. Simeonova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u158	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, since with this bill we introduce regulation and repeat: art. 17a3 introduces requirements for employers; art. 17a4 establishes an information system to include employers who meet the requirements. ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 17a5, which reads: Change in circumstances for the employer following a signed partnership agreement: (1) When after the conclusion of a partnership contract between an employer and an institution under art. 17a, para. 1, t. 1 or 2 it is found that the employer does not meet some of the requirements of art. 17a3, training through work may continue depending on the specific circumstances and at the discretion of the Director of the training institution. Since we believe that our main task is to protect the health, life and interests of the students, we again insist on our proposal to drop this paragraph and not allow the contract to continue under what specific circumstances and at the discretion of the Director. We are proposing the removal of § 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u159	Thank you, dear Mrs. Simeonova. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Irena Anastasova and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 24, Against 56, abstention 19. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 9, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 81, no objection, 14 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u160	Proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 para. 9 is amended as The National Agency for Vocational Education and Training shall establish indicators for the provision of annual information on the activity carried out under para. 8 and criteria and indicators for self-assessment of the quality of the training carried out. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u161	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the creation of a new § 10 by text in accordance with the Commission proposal and the text of the importer for § 10 which shall become § 11 and shall be supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u162	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1 after the words "skilling and learning activities'.. is added as well as training at a specific The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12, which shall become § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u163	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 11 by importer, which becomes § 12; and the second is the text of the importer for § 12, which becomes § 13 and which is supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u164	Proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 41 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 2 After the words of the vocational education and training, the quality of the activities of the licensed institutions is added. 2. In para. 3 shall be added at the end with no less than 30 staff. Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 1 sentence second, the words "two thirds' shall be replaced by "one second' and "two thirds' shall be replaced by "one second'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u165	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of two new paragraphs - 14 and 15, with a text according to the Commission's proposal. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u166	Proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs: The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49a The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 4 t. 1 and 2 are amended as follows: "1." the name and registered office of the sole trader or the legal person who received the licence; the unique identifier of the trader, or the code of the BULSTAT for non-traders; 2. the name of the vocational training centre or the information and vocational training centre; 2. Allinea 5 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u167	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 16 with a text according to the Commission's proposal. 100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u168	Proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. The title is amended as follows: 2. In para. 2 t. 3 is canceled. 3. Alinei 5, 6, 7 and 8 are amended as follows: After submission of the application under para. 1 verification of the regularity of applications and documents submitted shall be carried out. (6) Upon finding irregularities, the applicant shall be informed and their removal shall be granted a period of one month from receipt of the notification. The term for ruling under para. 4 shall cease until the non-compliance by the applicant has been resolved or the expiry of the one-month period. (7) In case of a positive result of the check under para. 5 an assessment shall be made of the possibility for the applicant to carry out training for each of the professions referred to in the application for compliance with: 1. the presented curricula and curricula with the state educational standard for obtaining qualification in the respective profession; 2. the presented curricula and curricula with the requirements of art. Art. 13d. 13e, para. 4 and 5; 3. the material and technical base applied for the training with the state educational standard for obtaining qualification in the profession concerned; an on-the-spot check shall be made if the base has not been checked or not been entered in a public register of public bodies; 4. the teaching staff with the state educational standard for obtaining qualification in the respective profession. (8) The President of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training shall refuse the issue of a licence where: 1. not all documents under para. are presented. 2 or 3, the documents submitted are incomplete or not in the specified form or form or irregularities have not been removed within the time limit; 2. a non-compliance has been found in one or more professions in the assessment under para. 7. 4. A new para is being created. 10: On the basis of a written application in the licence issued, changes may be made to: 1. amendment of the name of the vocational training centre or the information and professional orientation centre; 2. adding new professions and specialties or dropping out of professions and specialties. 5. A new para is being created. 11: The person to whom a licence has been issued may submit a written application for the addition of new professions and specialties, applying: 1. form by model; 2. documentation of vocational training suppose training plans and training programmes for occupations, according to art. 13; 3. documents of ownership or other documents proving the existence of a material and technical basis where vocational training will be carried out; 4. documents issued by the competent authorities on compliance of the material base with health requirements and requirements for fire and emergency safety, or proof that the material base has been entered into a public register of public bodies; 5. a reference to the faculty to which copies of the completed education and professional qualification documents and declarations of consent apply. 6. They're creating an al. 12 and 13: The modification of the licence by supplementing new professions/specialities shall be certified with an annex to the licence, which shall contain the ones referred to in art. 49a, para. 4 data. (13) Occupation and specialty shall be deleted from the licence issued where: 1. changes in the names and codes of professions or specialties on the list of professions for vocational education and training; 2. the vocational training centres have not carried out training for more than 5 consecutive years on the occupation included in the licence. 7. So far, the Al. 10 becomes para. 14. 8. So far, the Al. 11 becomes para. 15. 9. The creation of para. 16: The submission of applications for licensing, licensed professions or specialties as well as the dropped professions and specialties of the licence shall be reflected in the information system of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training and in the public registers under art. 42, p. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u169	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 17, which the Commission proposes. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u170	Proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49d The following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The privileges of the licence shall be terminated by: 1. termination of the activities of the legal person or the sole trader; 2. the withdrawal of the licence; 3. written request of the holder of the licence. 2. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: After the expiry of the withdrawal under para. 3, the rights to the licence withdrawn shall be reimbursed if the centre concerned has removed the infringement. Proposal of the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49e is created title: "Save the documentation of the vocational training centers that have ceased their activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u171	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the Commission's proposed establishment of new Articles 18 and 19. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u172	Proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 49f: "Changes of occupations in the licence Art. 49f. (1) Vocational training centres shall not be entitled to conduct training in professions/specialities of the licence which have been amended or deleted from the list of professions for vocational education and training after the acquisition of the privileges of the licence. (2) After the changes under para. 1, within one year, the vocational training centre shall be entitled to submit an application under art. 49b, para. 11 to include another profession from the same professional direction at the place of the amended or deleted profession. (3) For the application and activities under para. 2 the vocational training centre does not owe the fee under art. 60, para. 2. Proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Galya Zaharieva, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The National Agency for Vocational Education and Training shall maintain a public register of the licence holders issued, temporarily or definitively withdrawn to the vocational training centres and to the information and professional orientation centres on its website, as well as those applying for the issue of a licence. 2. In para. 2: (a) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." maintain a register of the documents issued by the vocational training centres under art. 39 and 40; (b) c. 3 at the end is added a list of specialties from professions where there is an expected shortage of specialists on the labour market. 3. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: The National Agency for Vocational Education and Training shall maintain an information system in which vocational training centres provide information necessary for: 1. Maintenance of registers under art. 42, p. 10 and 11; 2. generalisation of the information under art. 22, para. 8; 3. implementation of the activities of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training under art. Art. 496 49c. (4) The information relating to the vocational training shall be entered by the vocational training centres in the information system under para. 3 within 10 days of its occurrence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u173	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the proposed by the Commission a new § 20 and a new § 21. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u174	The Commission shall generally support the text but the importer and shall propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 51 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1, t. 13 the words "List of State-sponsored specialities of the "receipts' are replaced by "List of State-protected specialties of occupations and List of specialties of occupations where there is an expected shortage of specialists on the labour market'. 2. In para. 2, p. 3 after the word "qualification" is added to the professional high schools, professional colleges, average, profiled or united schools with vocational training classes. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 24. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 25. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u175	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 13, which becomes § 22 of the Commission Report, and the proposals of the importer for: § 14, which becomes § 23, § 15 becomes § 24, § 16 becomes § 25, § 17 becomes § 26, § 18 becomes § 27, supported by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u176	Proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 Article 60 is amended as follows: Art. 60. (1) The activities of the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training shall be financed by means of: 1. the state budget through the budget of the Ministry of Education and Science; 2. fees; 3. contracts for the award of works relating to the activities of the Agency; 4. publishing activity; 5. organization of national and international events; 6. conducting training courses for external experts and consultations of external organisations; 7. sponsorships, donations and wills; 8. national and international programmes and projects. (2) The National Agency for Vocational Education and Training shall collect fees of an amount fixed in a tariff approved by the Council of Ministers for: 1. verification of the regularity of the applications for authorisation submitted and of the documents to them. 2. an assessment of the applicant's ability to carry out training for each of the professions in the application; 3. issue of a professional training licence and entry in the public register; 4. issue of a duplicate of the licence. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the importer's test for the name of the compartment. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 30. Under § 21, there is a proposal of the MP Milena Damyanova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 21, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In the Labour Code (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 230 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 sentence 2 is finally a comma and is added except in the case of training through work (dual system of training), organized under the terms and conditions of the Professional Education and Training Act. 2. In para. 2 the words "school school curriculum" shall be replaced by the corresponding curriculum. 3. In para. 3 the words "Professional High Schools" shall be replaced by "in case of training through work" (dual system of training). 4. The creation of para. 6: During the training through work, students in the dual training system shall receive remuneration of an amount of: for the 11th grade... not less than twice, but for the 12th grade... not less than three times the maximum amount of the monthly scholarship determined in accordance with art. 171, para. 3 of the Preschool and School Education Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u177	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote proposals by the Commission a new § 28; the text of the importer for § 19, which shall become § 29 respectively; the name of the subdivision; the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 30; the version of § 21, which shall become § 31 of the Commission Report, and the text of the importer for § 22, which shall respectively be § 32, supported by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: 91 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. That's what the bill was passed with. Moving on to the next item on today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE COUNTERPARTY FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR EXPORT PROTECTION. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2018. Report from the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism Mr. Kanev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u178	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Export Insurance Act No 802-01-37 submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2018. At its regular meeting held on 17 October 2018, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Export Insurance Act. The meeting was attended by Aleksandar Manolev Deputy Minister of Economy, representatives of the Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency, the Financial Supervision Commission and others. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Manolev. The Export Insurance Act lays down the terms and conditions for insurance and reinsurance at the expense of the State of export risks related to the production and export of Bulgarian goods and services or to the implementation of Bulgarian investments abroad. The activity under this law is carried out by a public limited company Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency, which is an insurance insurance company within the meaning of the Insurance Code. Insurance and reinsurance contracts shall be concluded on behalf of the Agency. At the same time, the Council of Ministers has established an Interdepartmental Export Insurance Board for the conduct of the state policy on insurance and reinsurance of export risks related to the production and export of Bulgarian goods and services or to the implementation of Bulgarian investments abroad. It lays down the basic principles in the activities of the Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency; offers annually through the Minister of Economy of the Minister of Finance the amount of funds to be included in the Draft Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year; sets out the exposures by country; approves the Agency's activities; determines the method of investing the free funds on the Agency's bank account and others. Following an audit check of the activities of the Interdepartmental Export Insurance Board and on the basis of its results, it was concluded that the requirements of the Export Insurance Act were not met. This is why the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Export Insurance Act proposes a change in the management system of the Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency from one grade to two, by dropping the Interdepartmental Export Insurance Board as an authority and replacing it with the Supervisory Board of the Agency. This is expected to optimize the activities of the Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency, create better coordination between all stakeholders and thus achieve greater operationality in their work. During the discussion, the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria said they would refrain from supporting the bill and expressed doubts that the creation of a supervisory board is the only possible way to optimize the activities of the Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency. After the presentation and discussion of the bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Export Insurance Act, No 802-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u179	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Wishes to make a statement? Mr. Kanev was thorough with the report. I don't know why they don't applaud you, Mr. Kanev. He's got some special attitude, I think. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u180	Madam President, honourable Members! As it became clear from the Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the main proposal for a change in the Law is the abolition of the Interdepartmental Council and the establishment of a two-tier management system of the Bulgarian Export Insurance Agency with the establishment of a supervisory board to the same agency. We at BSP will not support this proposal for the following reasons: First of all, the reason why the Interdepartmental Council was being dissolved is because it was hard to get together. We believe that, since the President of this interdepartmental council is the Minister of Economy, there is no obstacle with a little more effort to bring him together. The composition of the Interdepartmental Council consists of representatives again Deputy Ministers from other ministries, which is in the spirit of transparency of the work of this Interdepartmental Council. This is incomparably more useful than a supervisory board that will be under the Minister of Economy's hat. The other reason why we will not support this proposal is that the representatives of the Interdepartmental Council have performed their functions and have not paid for this activity. While the proposal to set up a supervisory board will cost about 150 "200,000" per year, which will be in the form of salaries, insurance and so on to members of the supervisory board. These are the reasons why we from BSP for Bulgaria will refrain from supporting this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u181	Thank you, dear Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Export Insurance Act, No 802-01-37, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 October 2018. Vote 89 MPs: 75, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LEGAL AID. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u182	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! To your attention is the Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 August 2018, adopted at the first vote on 5 October 2018. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Legal Aid. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 words................................................................................. 4 and 5 and 5 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u183	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission and the creation of a new § 1 which the Commission proposes. Vote 85 MPs: for 84, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u184	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2, in which it shall be replaced by the words..............................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u185	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall become § 2, with the corresponding amendment in it. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u186	Paragraph 2 "Instruction text'. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 3 anywhere in the text before t. 1 after the word the court is added the President of the National Bureau of Legal Aid, which is described as an abbreviation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u187	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 2, which shall become § 3 of the Commission Report. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u188	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 3: Where legal assistance is provided through consultation in a regional advisory centre, the person may apply for legal assistance under art. 21, t. Two and three. The decision to grant legal aid for the preparation of documents for proceedings and for the appointment of a lawyer for procedural representation shall be taken by the President of the NCCI within 14 days of receipt of the documents by the relevant Council of Law. The refusal to grant legal aid shall be motivated and subject to appeal by applying para. 2. 2. Previously on AMC's... 3, 4 and 5 become respectively. 4, 5 and 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u189	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3, which shall become § 4 of the Commission Report. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u190	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Yavor Bojankov and Pencho Milkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 4 is created sentence two: "When punishment is imposed under art. 133, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law of the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u191	Statements? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u192	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to introduce the plenary to the movement on the proposal by the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Yavor Bojankov and Pencho Milkov. The Genesis of this proposal came from the legal circles due to the increased cases of abuse of lawyers of rights and failure to comply with their obligations under the Law on Law of Law, respectively the execution of other offences. For this reason, there has been a debate in the prosecution after the imposition of these two penalties, which I have read: the penalties under art. 133, para. 1, t. 4 and 5 in the case of deprivation of the right to exercise the profession up to three years, the other is up to five years, without automatic reimbursement of the legal rights. There is a possibility that the lawyers' councils may have re-evaluated whether the lawyer has actually been corrected after the punishment has been imposed. In the Legal Committee we supported, I repeat after a thorough debate the proposal of colleagues from the opposition Ivan Ivanov, Yavor Bojankov and Pencho Milkov. We also have the opinion of the Supreme Council of Law. [[shows him]] which, however, was presented in the procedure for preparing this bill by the Ministry of Justice. The opinion is in serious volume. With regard to this provision, they have proposed a slightly more extended version of... to call it the conditional control of the existence of correction and compliance with the qualities and requirements of the wrong and punished lawyer. Their provision is developed in two separate provisions. We commented on yesterday's whether colleague Ivan Ivanov would be willing to further develop his proposal, possibly with the editorials that the Supreme Council of Laws discussed, but at the present time, and in view of the reactions that have been made informally, that this is a proposal between first and second reading, that there has been an amendment to another law, that it could not have been discussed before the second reading of the Bill, I turn to you, including the importers, to say: yes, this is a proposal that is generally worthy of support. Personally, however, I will abstain from this vote in order to have the opportunity to make the further discussion, to get to the editing, including to correct the oppositions that have been received in the Supreme Council of Law and in the debate from other countries that we do not have opinions on. That is why I regret to say: in the Legal Committee I voted for the proposal of Ivan Ivanov, even my colleague Emil Dimitrov, Revisoro, made a proposal under art. 83 to supplement the text and to edit it, but at this point I think it is wiser for me and I recommend that we abstain from support, put forward the proposal as a separate bill, engage all interested parties and make the amendment to the Law on Law of Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u193	- What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, Mr. Kirilov! I take it as a positive fact that this text was unanimously supported by the Legal Commission. Of course, I personally expected the High Council of Law to come up with an official proposal for these amendments, which you are referring to for additions to these texts, but none of these were received. Rather, my reply is with an appeal to you: indeed these texts to be adopted today, as the cases of abuse of rights by certain representatives of the lawyer's guild are extremely common. Today, let us take the first step and then make these additions, which you have quoted and which the Supreme Council of Law has presented in its opinion to the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Justice. You understand that in the end, the aim of the legal profession is to protect the interests of its clients. We are talking here about such cases that drastically solve the rights and interests of their clients. We're talking about cases where there's a sale of property outside the law and so on. Something that, to date, is not adequately reflected in the Law on Law and is not sanctioned in the right way. For this reason, I therefore make this remark in order to take the step in this direction and then do the discussion, because objective oppositions and texts, opinions and opinions of neither the Council of Law nor any organisation related to the lawyer's office have been received. A lot of it, not to say over 90% of the law school, supports these things. Let's take the first step and then bring in... I agree with you: perhaps you should more closely regulate this way. If we can do it by the end of this year, let's do it. Our appeal is to take this first step today! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u195	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Is there gonna be a second line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u196	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I personally have a desire to support the text, I am not adamant that in this version, but my request is as follows: I take the commitment and, if you wish, I even suggest that we be co-conspirators......................... However, I do not want colleagues who still have five or six disciplinary violations, but are smart and beautiful, and very vocal, I do not want them to debate in the public domain, how this is an unconstitutional amendment and explain why it is an unconstitutional amendment. I think that in this case we can give ourselves no more than a month to make coordination with the Supreme Council of Law and the Ministry of Justice, to be sure of their will, to make sure that it is unanimous. I, like you, claim not 90%, I argue that 99% of practitioners are conscientious and respect the law as precisely and strictly as possible. These 99% have the need, the interest in protecting the profession and the professional standard. But let's not do this quickly right now, because, again, we're going to get some unwarranted attacks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u197	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. To speak, Mr. Dimitrov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u198	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to say that I fully share the position expressed by Mr. Daniel Kirilov regarding that we should unite the lawyer's guild, not divide it. And when there is a difference in desire what should happen, we must wait for the entire guild to unite around certain texts, and we, the representatives of this guild in parliament, of course, to support them. I, as a person who is in conflict of interest because I am a registered lawyer, can say that I am happy to recognize the texts of my fellow Members on the left. I have made amendments to some of them, and others I have added.... if they are adopted, how to apply by the Legal Aid Bureau as well. After hearing Mr. Daniel Kirilov's statement, as I have already said, I fully support him, withdraw all the texts and amendments I have made. Please also do not put them to the vote and do not vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. The Commission proposes to establish § 5. Vote 95 MPs: 31, against 6, abstention 58. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u200	Proposal from the MPs Ivan Ivanov, Yavor Bojankov and Pencho Milkov. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 6. [[Definitions aside from microphones.]] Proposal of the MP Anna Alexandrova and a group of MPs. A division named "Transitional and Final Provisions" shall be established with § 4: ............................................ In the Private Security The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal, which is reflected in paragraphs 7 and 8. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Dimitrov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the He just pulled it off. [[Definitions aside from microphones.]] A proposal from the National Representative Emil Dimitrov made in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Organisation and the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a "Transitional and final provisions." Paragraph 6 is stated, it becomes § 5 in the Law on the Law of Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u201	That's 5, 6, 7. And nine?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u202	Nine is separate. It becomes § 7 and also has editing in numbers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u203	When we start voting on them, you're gonna... Paragraph 6 becomes § 5 in the Law of Law of Law and we move on, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u204	That's right. ........................................................... In the Law on the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, No. ...), in art. 22, para. 1, t. 3 shall be added at the end: Until the acquisition of rights as a lawyer under the order of Chapter Two. seven...seven...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...seven...six...six...seven...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...six...s.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u205	Wait, Mr. Kirilov. Let's finish with § 5. [[Definitions aside from microphones.]] Hey, guys, any speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote, first, the name of the section of the "Transitional and final provisions" and, second, the text of § 5 in accordance with the Commission's proposal of the "Transitional and final provisions." [[Definitions aside from microphones.]] It's a deal. Cancel the vote, please. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, these things happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u206	Mr. Chairman, I'm proposing a separate vote. Please vote separately on the name "Transitional and Final Provisions" and a paragraph, which is referred to as the sixth in our Report, which should be renumbered to the fifth, for the amendment to the Law on Law Enforcement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u207	I get it. We are now going to vote on the name of the division. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of § 6 in the first version, which is, in fact, § 5 and which is not supported by the Commission. Did I get that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u208	Yes, in view of the debate we had, as well as the unfulfilled vote on the previous two proposals of colleagues Ivan Ivanov and MPs Pencho Milkov, Yavor Bojankov, so... [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u209	We don't support them at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u210	I will abstain, but we will make a separate legislative initiative on this matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u211	There's no explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u212	No, that's an explanation, Mr. Ivanov. That's an explanation! Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u213	It's a procedure. Okay, how? We split the vote? [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u214	Vote, Mr. Kirilov. Don't get into a debate! They voted 97 MPs: 21, Against 1, abstention 75. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u215	A paragraph marked 7 which should be renumbered as 5th. In the Law on Private Security Activities (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 5 the words "drinking and entertainment establishments, discotheques, gaming and computer halls" shall be replaced by the objects of real estate; (b) point 6 is repealed. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 1 words................................................................................. 2 "6' are 3. In Chapter 2, the name of Section V is amended as follows: Security of real estate sites. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The security of real estate sites is an activity in ensuring the security of the security of the premises, in the protection of the privacy of individuals residing in the premises and in the prevention of the physical protection of the property, as well as of their prevention; (b) In para. 2 the words "s/or monitoring control" shall be replaced by "monitor control" and "reaction" by mobile security patrols. 5. Article 25 is amended as follows: Art. 25. (1) Contractor under a security contract under art. 24 is a natural and/or legal person, including a state or local body, owner or user on the legal basis of the real estate and property located at the site. (2) Contractor under a security contract under para. 1 is also the sole trader or the legal person, owner or user on a legal basis of the real estate in which discotheques, drinking or entertainment establishments, gaming or computer halls are divided, having the permission of a local authority to carry out the commercial activity and/or licence issued by the State Gambling Commission. 6. In Chapter 2, Section VI with art. 27, 28 and 29 is repealed. 7. In § 1 of the additional provisions: (a) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." In the case of personal security, personal security is a protected establishment; movable or immovable property in the case of security or self-security of the property of natural or legal persons; property and property in which the property is situated; property and property situated in it; property in the case of security of property; property in the case of security of property; property in the case of security of property; property in the case of security of property; property in the case of security of property; property in the case of security of property; property in the case of security of property. (b) point 5 is repealed. 8. In § 4, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u216	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of § 7, which shall become § 5, presented to the Members of the National Assembly. 90 MPs voted: 80 against 10, no abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u217	Paragraph marked 8 in the Report, but to be numbered as § 6. ................................................................................... (1) The licences issued until the entry into force of this Act for carrying out security of drinking and entertainment establishments, discotheques, gaming and computer halls and for guarding of urbanised territories under the Law on Private Security Activities, including additions to licences issued under § 4, para. 4 - 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the same Law on the conduct of these activities remain effective. An addition to the licences held shall be issued in a professional capacity under art. 46, para. 4 of the Law on Private Security Activities, which indicates as a kind of activity the security of real estate sites. (2) Applications for authorisation to carry out security of drinking and entertainment establishments, discotheques, gaming and computer halls and for the protection of urbanised territories, including applications submitted pursuant to § 4, para. 4 - 6 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Private Security Activity Act for carrying out these activities are considered within three months of the entry into force of this Act without any need to change the data in them and without collecting a state fee, as in the licence issued, respectively, in the Appendix, the type of activity indicating the security of the real estate sites.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u218	Give her the next paragraph.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u219	Paragraph referred to in the Report as 9 but which must be renumbered as § 7 and must become § 5, item 5. 8. .................................................................................. 8 shall enter into force from 30 September 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-24.u220	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements, coworkers? I won't. I put two texts to the vote. The first text is § 8 in accordance with the Commission Report, which becomes § 6 and § 9 in accordance with the Commission Report, which becomes § 7, as amended by § 7 instead of the 7 "5" in the text. Vote 85 MPs: 77 against 8, no abstentions. The proposals are accepted. This concludes with the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Legal Aid. Moving on to the next point of the Work Programme: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. [[Definitions between President Tsveta Karayancheva and Vice-President Emil Hristov.]] Colleagues, so we don't tear up the bill reports, we'll postpone them to read them in their entirety. The next regular plenary session shall be on 25 October 2018 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
