ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! Colleagues, please register. Cancel registration. Next registration in 15 minutes. Found at 9:16 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u2	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, before we begin, I will read you a message: The National Assembly received a Report on the topics and files included in the 18-month programme of the Council of the European Union for 1 July 2017. 31 December 2018, and the development of negotiations on the unfinished files of the Programme of the Republic of Bulgaria as President of the Council of the European Union adopted by Decision No 923 of the Council of Ministers of 2018. The report is presented in implementation of art. 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The material is provided to the parliamentary groups and all permanent committees. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: SELECTION OF A PRESENTOR, A LOADER AND MEMBERS OF THE NATIONAL BOOK FOR CONTROL OF SPECIAL DISCLOSURES. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 25 October 2018. Before we begin, I'll read you the rules: Election of members, Chair and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means: 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. By decision of the National Assembly, the candidates admitted may be present at the meeting. 2. The Commission for the Control of Security Services, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act shall present the report on the hearing. 3. Applicants shall be submitted by the importers of the proposals on their order in the list drawn up in alphabetical order of their own names in an exhibition within two minutes. 4. The debates on the submitted applications shall be held in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. 5. The vote shall be taken separately for each candidate on the order defined in the candidate list. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. The National Assembly shall elect from the members of the Bureau the Chair and Vice-President. 8. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 9. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes during the re-voting as well as in cases where no nominations have been submitted, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, to introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u3	Mr. Boyko Iliev Rashkov, Mr. Iliya Angelov Ganev, Mr. Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov, Mr. Ognian Atanasov Atanasov, Mr. Ognian Stoichkov Yanakiev and Mr. Plamen Kolev Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u4	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. Vote 161 MPs: for 159, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the nominees to the Chamber. Please continue with the presentation of the Report, dear Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u5	♪ I can't believe on a hearing of admission candidates for members, Chair and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means At an open meeting held on 14 December 2018 and broadcast in real time on the Internet via the website of the National Assembly, the Security Services Control Commission, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act held a hearing of proposed candidates for members, Chair and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means under Section III of the Rules of Procedure for the Offering of Applicants, the Presentation and Public Disclosure of Documents, the Hearing of Applicants and the Election of President, Vice-President and Members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds adopted by a decision by the National Assembly on 25 October 2018, hereinafter referred to as the Rules of Procedure. The President of the Commission Mr. Dimitar Lazarov announced that six proposals were received from the parliamentary groups, which together with all required documents were made public through the specialized website on the website of the National Assembly. According to Section II and III of the Rules of Procedure, an eligibility check has been carried out for applicants. By decision of 8 November 2018 and of 30 November 2018, the Commission unanimously found that they met the requirements of art. 34c, para. 2 of the Special Intelligence Means Act. The list of eligible candidates was published on 7 December 2018 on the specialized website of the National Assembly. The President of the Commission presented in summary the opinions of non-governmental organisations, scientific organisations and higher education institutions for applicants who entered the Commission on the basis of Section I. 5 of the Rules of Procedure. In support of Ognian Stoichkov Yanakiev's candidacy three opinions were deposited by the Chairman of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences Julian Revalski; by the Dean of the Faculty of Law of Veliko Tarnovo University. St. Cyril and Methodius "Professor Tsvetan Sivkov" and by the Dean of the Faculty of Law of Sofia University. Ct. Ohridski "Professor Sasho Penov." Mr. Lazarov read and received within the established legal period by the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives issues to be put to the candidates. It shall inform the Commission that two further opinions have been received, including questions in them which do not meet the conditions set out in Section I. 5 of the Rules of Procedure and are therefore not published on the specialized website of the National Assembly. He stated that, in order to ensure the maximum level of protection of public interest under the hearing procedure, he would introduce the candidates to them by reading them. In conclusion, the President of the Commission has announced the order and manner of presenting candidates by the importers of the proposal, respectively, the possibility for applicants to supplement their CV data and to express their motivation for taking up the post and to respond to the questions asked. Boyko Iliev Rashkov's candidacy as a member and chairman, proposed by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, was presented by the MP Slavcho Velkov. He drew attention to the long-standing legal internship of the applicant over 38 years, as well as to his scientific activities, which have a positive impact on his work and skills to lead the activity and build the authority of the National Bureau. Ilija Angelov Ganev's candidacy as a member, proposed by the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, was presented by the MP Slavcho Velkov. His presentation focused on his active work as a member of the National Bureau and also on his long-standing experience as a member of the DCCI. The candidacy of Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov as member and vice-president, proposed by the parliamentary group of the DPS, was presented by the MP Elhan Kulkov. It gave importance to the fact that the applicant has a proven CV in the field of national security, broad theoretical training and meets the procedural rules. Ognian Atanasov's candidacy for a member proposed by the parliamentary group of PP GERB was presented by the MP Dimitar Lazarov. He stressed that his long-standing professional experience over 30 years had been in various structures, whose activities are related to the provision and implementation of special intelligence resources. Ognian Stoichkov Yanakiev's candidacy as member and chairman, proposed by the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" was presented by the MP Desislav Chukolov. He drew attention to the high professional qualities of the candidate and to the stated support for him by scientific organizations and universities. Plamen Kolev Ivanov's candidacy as a member and chairman, proposed by the parliamentary group of Volja. She followed the professional development of the candidate and pointed out his knowledge and skills which formed him as a proven leader. Following the submission of candidates for their order on the list drawn up in alphabetical order, they shall proceed to their personal presentation. Mr. Rashkov thanked the MPs who offered it to his colleagues from the administration, with whom he worked for five years at the National Bureau for Special Intelligence Control. He made it clear that he had a strong interest in the matter of which his publications and publications testify and pointed out his good judgment about the work carried out by the Bureau. Considered the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights of 2008 and that in the past years, much has been achieved to protect citizens from improperly used and applied special intelligence. In conclusion, he pointed out that after the hearing was concluded, he would take part in a round table organised by the Council of Europe in cooperation with the Ministry of Justice, where a group of judgment decisions of the Strasbourg Court will be discussed and their implementation as well as good practices in ensuring independent control of the special intelligence means. Mr. Ganev made an addition to his professional CV by stating that she has gone through two stages. The first as head of the Fire Department and the second at the DXI, as an expert and then as a member. In connection with his activities in the DCCI, he was authorised to access the highest level of classified information and headed working groups for the conclusion of classified information exchange agreements. In relation to the questions asked, he replied that, as a member of the Bureau, he had participated in numerous checks and received the necessary cooperation from the institutions. Regarding the Bureau's proposals for a change in its regulatory base, the best approach to their formation is by conducting a round table discussion. The question of whether pressure was put on him answered negative. Mr. Zhelyazkov in his exhibition followed the path of development, powers and means to carry out the activity by the independent state body from its establishment until now. He also pointed out that legislative changes should be made to establish a single register of special intelligence means and to update and refine Chapter IV of the Special Intelligence Means Act. Expressed its view that in the next term of the Bureau's work, a principle of continuity and professionalism should be respected and guaranteed. Mr. Atanasov added facts about his professional biography and stressed that the Bureau has implemented a successful mandate, showing good results in carrying out its activities. To the question whether there was a conflict between the Bureau and the other institutions, he replied that there was no conflict and expressed his disagreement with the facts and data publicly exported. He stated that he was not under pressure in terms of his work. Mr. Stoichkov thanked for his support and pointed out that he found the Bureau's last term successful. According to him, the brightest evidence of this is the half-degraded number of persons controlled by the SRS in 2017 compared to 2013. He presented data on the work he did and regretted that the principle of teamwork, fellowship and well-meaning was not strengthened in his work with colleagues. Share that in his work with colleagues from the institutions he had no difficulties or problems. Mr. Ivanov thanked for the presentation and said that since 2000 he has been monitoring the processes related to special intelligence, but the process of updating legislation should not be stopped according to the change in public relations and the development of technology. Finds the Bureau's work by achieving the desired disciplinary effect in the use and application of special intelligence means. He also expressed his position in terms of teamwork. Questions to the candidates asked the members of the Commission - Mr. Slavcho Velkov, Mr. Philip Popov, Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mr. Dimitar Lazarov. In the exhibitions and in the given time, the applicants replied to the questions set out in Section I, point (a) of Section I. 5 of the Rules of Procedure and of the Members of the Commission. On the basis of the hearing held, the Commission with 6 votes for the Special Intelligence Control Office, which is attached to this report, proposes that the National Assembly examine and vote on the proposed applications for Members, Chair and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Resources, to which it applies to this report a List of candidates participating in the hearing.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Mr. Chairman, I will read the proposed draft decisions, and, of course, the identical ones I will not repeat as grounds and content. I'll also read the names of the proposed candidates. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Boyko Iliev Rashkov as a member of the National Bureau of Special Intelligence Control. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ilija Angelov Ganev as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Resources. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Funds. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ognian Atanasov Atanasov as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Funds. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ognian Stoichkov Yanakiev as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Resources. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Plamen Kolev Ivanov as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Resources. The other three solutions: Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Boyko Iliev Rashkov as Chairman of the National Bureau for Special Intelligence Control. Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ognian Yanakiev Stoichkov as Chairman of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Resources. Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Plamen Kolev Ivanov as Chairman of the National Bureau for Special Intelligence Control. The last Project for a Decision: Project! DECISION on the election of Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov as Vice-President of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Funds. List-app, I said it, with the names of candidates admitted today to selection, are arranged alphabetically.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u6	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our discussions. I'm opening the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u7	Presentation, presentation of candidates.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u8	I apologize, introduction.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u9	In alphabetical order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u10	Alphabetical, alphabetically. Mr. Velkov, come in. You represent Boyko Iliev Rashkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u11	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, honourable candidates for Members, Chairman and Vice-President of the Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence! Welcome! I welcome you on my behalf and on behalf of Mr. Lazarov! I hope she doesn't mind. Once again, honourable Members, as some of you have been in active conversations with each other that today we are electing candidates as members and president of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u12	And vice-president.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u13	And vice-president. Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I'd like to propose the first application. They listen to each other in alphabetical order, then was Mr. Philip Popov for the next one? It doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u14	The time for the first candidate is running out, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u15	A representative of the group shall represent each of which the applicant is proposed. Then, in the course of the debates and speeches, depending on their dynamics, we will also express our attitude. suppose as a candidate for a member and Chairman of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means Dear Mr. Chairman! In relation to the forthcoming decision of the National Assembly on the election of President, Vice-President and members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means, in accordance with point (c) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009, Council Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council and Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1.1 of the decision adopted on 25 October adopting the Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for the offer of candidates, presentation and public disclosure of documents, hearing of candidates and election of President, Vice-President and members of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence means, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the BSP for Bulgaria, we present an application and propose that Boyko Iliev Rashkov be elected as a member and Chairman of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u17	Please, not like this! Mr. Chairman, please, so I don't have to take this any further. Boiko Iliev Rashkov was born in the village of Ognyanovo, Blagoevgrad district. A lawyer. Associate Professor of Criminal Trials. He graduated from Sofia University. With over 38 years of legal internship. His professional development goes through: Investigator at the Regional Investigation Service (Sofia); Deputy Director and Director of the National Investigation Service; Director of the Specialized Investigation Service; Member of the Supreme Judicial Council; National Representative at the Thirty-nineth National Assembly; Vice-President of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee; Investigator; Head of the Department; Chairman of the National Investigation Service.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u18	Mr. Velkov, three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u19	Look, what's written, Mr. Chairman, is 14 pages. I'm limiting it to two. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u20	Mr. Velkov, let's follow the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u21	At two, I'm limiting it. We can't help but offer them. [[Noise and lines.]] Okay. His recognizable professional biography and principle were a prerequisite for being promoted and elected president of the newly established National Bureau in 2013. In his current term of office, he has proven his theoretical training and practical skills to direct the activity and build up the authority of this structure. In this respect, his scientific research has undoubtedly influenced this matter. It is publicly known that, under his leadership, the Bureau was able to establish a precise order in the use and application of the special intelligence means by which the conditions for abuse of its methods were liquidated. The results of the Bureau's work under his leadership have also provoked the ruling of the Supreme Court of Cassation by a decision and so on. This gives us reason and conviction to propose and defend Boyko Rashkov's candidacy as a member and chairman of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds. We apply the required documents, which I will not read, as they are very bulky. The only thing I can blame...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u22	Thank you, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u23	...I can blame Professor Rashkov if he's here that his biography isn't on a quarter page. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u24	Thank you. Colleagues, let's move in within two minutes for the presentation, otherwise I'll take the floor. Next presentation Mr. Popov, come in. Two minutes!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! From 1986 to 2003, Mr. Ganev was head of the Regional Fire and Emergency Security Service. After that, from 2004 to 2007, he was chief expert at the Department of Defence of classified information. Participate and work in groups of physical and documentary security, controlling the rules on the types of protection of classified information, physical documentary security of classified information and other activities related to that classified information. From 2007 to 2012, Mr. Ganev was a member of the State Commission on Information Security. From 2013 until now, Mr. Ganev has been a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means, and his activities and his post at the Bureau has been involved in verification, control and compliance with the legal requirements for the implementation of the Special Intelligence Means. Mr. Ilija Angelov Ganev is currently a member of the Bureau, as I said. As a former member of the same, Mr. Ganev actively participated in all activities of the National Bureau as required by the Special Intelligence Means Act. During his work, he has supervised the procedures for authorising, implementing and using special intelligence means, involved in the protection of citizens' rights and freedoms against the unlawful application of special intelligence means. His long-standing experience as a civil servant and member of the State Commission on Information Security gives him grounds for being conscientious and professional in fulfilling his obligations to comply with the law with regard to the retention of requests, authorisation and enforcement orders for the use and implementation of the SRS, I conclude, Madam President, as well as the preservation and destruction of information acquired through them. The above gives us reason to propose Mr. Ilija Ganev's candidacy as a member of the National Bureau for Special Intelligence Control. I certainly hope that he will be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. Presentation of Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u27	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to present to your attention the proposal of the Parliamentary Group on Rights and Freedoms and Vice-President of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence. Mr. Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov has a proven biography in the system of national security. He has high professional and moral qualities. Mr. Zhelyazkov has graduated from his higher education at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. His professional experience dates back to 1981 when he joined the Ministry of Interior. His career continues in the field of energy, taking part in the management of the Bulgarian Energy Holding. Mr. Zhelyazkov was also Chairman of the Board of Directors of the TPP. At present, he is acting as Director of the Department of Security and Defence-mobilization training at the State Reserve and Wartime Stocks Office. Mr. Zhelyazkov combines high theoretical training, broad practical skills in security. It shall have the necessary professional qualities and shall comply with the rules of procedure for taking up the post. Everything set out here leads us to the belief that Mr. Zhelyazkov will successfully deal with the duties of Vice-President of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Kulkov. Next is the presentation of Mr. Ognian Atanasov. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u29	Mrs. Chairman! On behalf of the political party parliamentary group GERB, we have nominated Mr. Atanasov as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Funds. Our reasons and reasons are that Mr. Atanasov has more than 35 years of professional experience in the structures of the Ministry of Interior, the Ministry of Defence, the Department of Information and Analysis. 34b of the Special Intelligence Means Act and art. 261b of the Law on Electronic Communications Parliamentary Control and Monitoring of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Means. From the beginning of 2014 until now Mr. Ognian Atanasov Atanasov is a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Means. With its work, it contributes to the establishment and organisation of the activities of the National Bureau, the validation and development of this independent collective state body. The position he has carried out is proof that he is capable of organizing his work and of successfully achieving the objectives set. The professional route of Mr. Ognian Atanasov Atanasov began precisely in the field of the provision and implementation of special intelligence funds in 1983 in the Ministry of Interior Office of the Ministry of Interior. Excellent training, professional experience, organizational qualities and skills are the leading motives for his appointment in 2010 to the Director of the Directorate of Information and Analysis and to the Permanent Sub-Committee of the Committee on Legal Affairs of the National Assembly, which carried out the special intelligence means Act and the Law on Electronic Communications parliamentary control and monitoring. He is a high-quality supervisor, who has demonstrated organizational abilities and a positive approach to teamwork, who have helped build it as an indisputable authority and proven professional. The high professional and moral qualities held by Mr. Ognian Atanasov are a guarantee of the effective achievement of the functions assigned to control the implementation and use of the special intelligence resources of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence. We will support his candidacy as a member of the National Bureau, and I call on you as well.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Lazarov. The next performance is by Ognian Stoichkov Yanakiev. Here you go, Mr. Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u31	Thank you, Madam President. Dear guests, dear Members of the House! On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the United patriots, I would like to draw your attention to Mr. Ognian Stoichkov Yanakiev's candidacy for president and member of the Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds. At present Mr. Stoichkov has successfully fulfilled his duties as a member of this committee, but I am obliged to present to you the professional path he has conducted. Mr. Stoichkov has graduated from his higher education at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski with specialty............................................................................................. He started his career as a lawyer and is currently listed in the Sofia Bar Association. In legal circles it enjoys a good name as a professional defending the rights and freedoms of citizens in good faith and in the best standards. Between 2009 and 2013 Mr. Stoichkov was a MP in the Forty-first National Assembly of the political party parliamentary group Ataka. He was elected Chairman of the Committee on Education, Science, Youth and Sports in the Forty-first National Assembly and is also a member of the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. As MP Mr. Stoichkov is importer of a number of bills and proposals in the field of secondary and higher education, youth policy, sport, criminal, financial, selective and procedural law. In this capacity with his legal knowledge and organizational abilities, Mr. Stoichkov has established himself to work as a team and to seek agreement and achieve a collegial atmosphere in his work in the Commission. As of 19 December 2013, Mr. Stoichkov was elected by the Forty-second National Assembly as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence, holding a valid permit for access to classified information at the level of Strogo classified. We find that it meets the requirements for the proposed posts of the Head and member of the Bureau. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Notev. The latest proposal is for Mr. Plamen Kolev Ivanov. Who's gonna introduce him to us? Here you go, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u33	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear candidates for members, Chairman and Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds, on behalf of the Political Party "Volja" I would like to present Mr. Plamen Kolev Ivanov's candidacy as a member and chairman. Plamen Kolev Ivanov was born on 18 September 1968 in Kazanlak, a Bulgarian citizen married with two children. His secondary education graduated from the Mathematical High School of Nichola Obreshkov in his home town with excellent success. His higher education graduated with an education degree "Master" with a specialty "Miscuitization and management of machine building production" at the Technical University in Sofia. His professional internship in the security services began in 1999 at the National Office of Security and continued at the State Agency of National Security. In his career development he passes through all positions from expert to head of department. At present, he is acting under the protection of classified information, and his main duties are related to the organisation and management of the activities of the structure. As an expert and executive officer, he has shown exceptional professionalism and has achieved high results in the performance of his duties. He's made a lot of experience in the field of national security protection. He has solid knowledge and skills acquired in the course of his professional activities and from his participation in courses and seminars of the American, Bulgarian, British and Israeli special services. He has extensive practical experience in the use of special means of intelligence for the needs of national security, knows the matter and specific features of its implementation. In his activities, he has always strictly respected the laws, regulations and internal rules. Among his colleagues he has built a reputation as a principled, honest, creative and responsible employee and supervisor. Shows an in-depth and up-to-date knowledge of the implementation of the regulatory framework and an active approach to finding gaps in legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u34	You're proposing him as a member and as chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u35	Yes, we're proposing him as a member and as chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u36	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. There are no speeches. Please invite the Members of the National Assembly to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u37	Madam President, I want the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u38	Where have you been, Mr. Velkov? I'm looking at your place. [[Noise and lines.]] I've closed the debate already. I put to the vote the election of a member of the National Bureau of Special Intelligence Control: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Boyko Iliev Rashkov as a member of the National Bureau of Special Intelligence Control. Please, voting mode. They voted 182 MPs: 65, against 2, abstention 115. It's not accepted. I'm putting the second vote to the vote. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ilija Angelov Ganev as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Resources. Please, voting mode. They voted 188 MPs: 188, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The next person I put to the vote is "Project" DECISION appointing a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Funds. Vote 174 MPs: 127 against 8, abstention 39. The motion is accepted. Let's move on to the next one. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ognian Atanasov Atanasov as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Funds. Please, voting mode. They voted 178 MPs: 141, against 6, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION appointing a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ognian Stoichkov Yanakiev as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Resources. Please, voting mode. Vote 160 MPs: 124 against 6, abstention 30. The motion is accepted. The final offer is Project! DECISION appointing a member of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Plamen Kolev Ivanov as a member of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Resources. They voted 175 MPs: 130 against 9, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. We're moving on to the election of a chairman. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u39	Honourable President, I ask that, before you vote on the next nomination for President of the National Bureau, they be in alphabetical order, that you carry out a roll call check of the quorum of the present Members of the National Bureau.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u40	Please give me the lists. [[Noise and lines.]] We'll start backwards. [[(SIGHS: ……]] Colleagues, I'll do it fast! Yavor Rumenov Bojankov - absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Julian Krastev Angelov - here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - here Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Christian Radev Mitev - absent Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - here Halil Recepov Letifov - here Hayri Recepov Sadakov - here Filip Stefanov Popov - here Toma Nikolov Tomov - here Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Todor Baychev - here Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - here Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tanner Mehmed Ali - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Apostolicov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Ivanov Popov - here Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - here Spas Yanev Panchev - absent Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - here Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - here Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Sergey Manushov Kichikov - here Sevim Ismail Ali - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Rumen Petrov Genov - here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Ralitsa Dobreva - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Radoslava Plamen Chekanska - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Petar Boykov Vitanov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Manol Trifonov Genov - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Apostolicov - absent Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Errol Osman Mehmed - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emil Marinov Hristov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Borisov Glavchev - absent Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov - here One hundred forty-two. There's a quorum. Colleagues, we are continuing with the vote. First to announce, perhaps I missed, Mr. Iliya Angelov Ganev, Mr. Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov, Mr. Ognian Atanasov Atanasov, Mr. Ognyan Stoichkov Yanakiev and Mr. Plamen Kolev Ivanov are the elected five members of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence. I shall put to the vote the proposals for chairmen. They remain two of those two who have been chosen so far. Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ognian Yanakiev Stoichkov as Chairman of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Resources. Please, voting mode. Vote 181 MPs: 17 against 48, abstention 116. I put the second proposal to the vote: Project! DECISION on the election of the President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Plamen Kolev Ivanov as Chairman of the National Bureau for Special Intelligence Control. Vote 190 MPs: 126, against 59, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Now let's vote and Project! DECISION on the election of Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Means The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. Art. 8 and art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 34c, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 34d, para. 6 of the Special Intelligence Means Act HAS DECIDED He elected Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov as Vice-President of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Funds. Vote 181 MPs: 128, against 44, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. Mr. Plamen Kolev Ivanov was elected Chairman of the National Bureau for Control of Special Intelligence Means. Mr. Ilko Dimitrov Zhelyazkov was elected Vice-President of the National Bureau for the Control of Special Intelligence Funds. For members: Ilija Angelov Ganev, Ognian Atanasov Atanasov and Ognyan Stoichkov Yanakiev. Congratulations to your colleagues! [[Applause.]] Please come and swear.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u41	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u42	Please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u43	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, I propose that we extend the time limit of the joint report of the two bills on explosives, weapons and ammunition adopted at first reading, which were combined in a joint report in the Commission, to the maximum period of three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Manev. I put to the vote the procedural proposal to extend the maximum period of three weeks.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u45	Three weeks extension, maximum duration.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u46	Vote 175 MPs: 164 against 5, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you are, the newly elected President, Vice-President and Members, to take an oath. Repeat after me. [[Everyone gets up.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u47	I swear to uphold the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria and to carry out my duties in good faith by being guided by the interests of the state and the principles of independence and objectivity. I swore. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u48	Congratulations! Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR VEROIZATIONS. Colleagues, at 10.30 a.m., will be our ensemble for Christmas. We will continue with the work, but they will expel the evil spirits from the National Assembly building. [[Radio and lines: There are no lines!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u49	And with this bill, we want to kick them out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u50	So, in a joint effort, God willing, it will happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u51	Madam President, honourable Members, we continue with § 7. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the version of Option I importer, generally supports the version of Option II importer and proposes the following version of § 7, which becomes § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced supplies may present to state and local authorities opinions, recommendations, reports, studies on matters relevant to religious communities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u52	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the unsupported text of the importer for Option I. They voted 119 MPs: for 7, against 18, abstention 94. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 7, which shall become § 3, supported by the Commission. They voted 122 MPs: 108, none, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u53	A proposal from the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and the MP Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Krasimir Velchev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 2. A new para is being created. 2: The religions present annually by the end of February to the Department of the Department of the Council of Ministers a list of prayer houses, temples and monasteries intended for public religious rites. 3. The creation of para. 3: The Office of the Council of Ministers shall establish and maintain a public register in which the houses, temples and monasteries under para. 2. 4. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4 and in it is created sentence two: In these cases faiths cannot use technical means or sound devices that serve to increase the volume, except in the event of public events, celebrations and celebrations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u54	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 8, which shall become § 4 of the Commission Report. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u55	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 9 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u56	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 9. They voted 115 MPs: for 104, against none, abstentioned 11. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u57	According to § 10 there is a proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi: The following amendments shall be made in paragraph 10: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14a, para. 1 the number 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14b, para. 2, p. 2 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 10 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u58	Statements? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u59	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposal that we have tabled from the "United patriots" in respect of § 10 is one of our most important proposals, as it concerns the registration of religious communities. We have examined the introduction of a minimum required threshold by at least 300 natural persons, which are necessary for the registration of a religious community, because at the moment in the Law on Religions, such a threshold does not exist and the registered religious communities in the territory of Bulgaria are 176. In fact, my information is from a month ago, and it is very likely that this figure has increased further. For reference to 31 December 2013, the registered religions in Bulgaria are 126, which means that in 5 years they have grown by 50. For myself, I tried to see how many of them I could think of, I could count them out, and I got to twenty-something. I don't know, if we do this experiment with the whole room, if we can count at least fifty of the religious communities, and I repeat, there are 176 of them. We all know what is one of the main reasons why in recent years they should be inundated at such a rapid rate. This is mainly due to the main activity of most of them. I say it more in quotes because it is related to taking advantage of the privileges given to them in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. It is no coincidence that this proposal was supported by almost all religious communities. I am talking about the active religious communities who attended the discussions related to the adoption of our bills. Even the Bulgarian Orthodox Church went even further. In its opinion, it proposes the introduction of a minimum threshold of three thousand natural persons. The gentlemen Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadaye recognized him and presented him as their second reading proposal. We all seem to share the concerns of this perhaps the most liberal registration in Europe. I want to introduce a slightly more restrictive model, because in recent years dozens of known and unknown religious communities have flocked. For information only: there are such religious communities as the church in Sliven in the register. There is also a good church in Sliven, but are still free to use the better and the best church. My personal favorite is the registered Christian Mission Center. And for the information of most of you in Bulgaria is functioning, albeit informally, the Bulgarian Pastafarian Church, as the main ideology that her followers confess is faith in the Flying Spaghetti Monster. Just two years ago in Bulgaria took place the second in the world and the first in Bulgaria Pastafarian wedding. Sounds comical, sounds illogical, but shall we continue this way? If you reject our proposal, we risk this process continuing to grow more and more, to shake the foundations of faith and to discredit established denominations. I therefore rely on the support of all parliamentary groups, just as the religious communities supported us, just as the Bulgarian Orthodox Church did. However, I rely even more on the individual Members from the different parliamentary groups, who in private agree with us. Thank you. [[Private applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u60	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. - What's the line? Second line, Mr. Veselinov. First of all, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u61	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Yordanov, I disagree with the definition you used in your speech that a restrictive regime is being introduced in this way. In fact, no restrictive regime is introduced, but the regime that exists is evened out, for absolutely all non-profit legal entities in the public benefit, whether they are in the so-called "common model" or are special persons such as political parties. So in this regard, the regime that is being introduced is not restrictive and, I would say, is even more radical, but I think it is the right proposal that colleagues Tsvetanov and Karadayi. And it follows, if it is not the text of the importer, at least to support theirs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u62	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u63	I also take the floor to support the proposal of Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Karadayi and perhaps for the first and only time will be within the framework of this bill, but I think it is the right one. Three thousand people is actually a figure that will prove the burden of religion. As importers, we approached very modestly because we expected that we would encounter resistance and therefore we suggested that we start from a low number that is easy to collect. But the idea is that if we want to have religious institutions that are stable, which are predictable and are a normal partner of the state in terms of those processes that are regulated in the Religions Act, we have to bet on the number three thousand. And I would complement my colleague with the following: this text introduces the requirement that only adult Bulgarian citizens, no others, should participate in the manuals of religions. The guides of these organizations, who care about the spirituality of the Bulgarians, must be guided by Bulgarians.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Will there be a hole? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u65	Dear Mr. Mitev, there is nothing left but to agree with what you said, in fact to agree with both who made a reply that the figure of at least three thousand individuals is the most appropriate, all the more so if we take the example of neighboring Romania with their Religious Law that status is given only to those religions that have 0,1% of the population in the last census.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u66	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Another statement? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Tsvetan Tsvetanov and the MP Mustafa Karadayi. They voted 106 MPs: 16 against 13, abstentioned 77. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 10 to be rejected. Vote 119 MPs: for 107, against 10, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u67	Procedure, Madam President. My procedure is under the Rules of Procedure for extending working hours until the end of item two of the agenda.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u68	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 115 MPs: 95 against 13, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u69	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 11 be rejected. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 12 be rejected. The Commission supports the proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 13 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 5. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 15 be rejected. [[Replys and shouts by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u70	Statements? I can't see. Is there?! Excuse me, Mr. Vesselinoff, raise your hand a little higher, because I'm in the way.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u71	Madam President, honourable Members! Firstly, I propose that we separate the paragraphs, as it will become absolute chaos with regard to the vote. Secondly, I would like very briefly, so that I do not bore you, to say what you are likely to reject. You will reject this: The Religious Directorate to give an expert opinion prior to the registration of a creed regarding its religious content, regarding the ideas they confess on the basis of documents that could avoid systematic duplication of faiths of equal content. We've got sure Petdessian churches, we've got, as it turns out, a few churches in Sliven, a few... well, generally, in every gypsy neighborhood they've built a church that's separate from the others, because the cupcake must be one and should accordingly benefit from the good things with the tax evasion of property. This text would help: firstly, to prevent the penetration and registration of faiths that could be radical; and, secondly, would limit the number of faiths that are duplicate forms only on the basis of having benefits and receiving aid from fellow churches from Western Europe and the United States.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u72	A line, Mr. Angelov? Happy name day!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u73	For the tenth time this year!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u74	That's what the calendar says.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u75	Thank you, Madam President! Mr. Veselinov, you correctly said that if one of the texts was rejected, in which the Department of Religion should give an opinion for registration of a religion, it would be a mistake to reject this text from the Bulgarian Parliament. And I will tell you why: because the Religious Directorate would prepare the opinion on the basis and the opinions of the National Security Agency, the DAR and other Bulgarian services, which would draw up the relevant opinions and say whether a religion threatens national security or threatens the population of Bulgaria at all. At the moment we leave the registration of every single religion, no matter what it preaches and what it wants, how it will deceive and harm people, including financially and property, because there are many such in Bulgaria. We are once again letting the regime be liberal in this world, Mr. Veselinov, in which we see what is happening, we see what radical currents there are in different religions, we see what terrorist acts are being carried out. So you really should have added to your statement that the Department of Religion will also comply with the opinion of SANS, DAR and other Bulgarian services, which will effectively protect the national security of the state. I call on Parliament to accept this proposal because this will be nationally responsible by the Bulgarian MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u76	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. That was a first line. Is there a second line? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u77	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Veselinov, in addition to what my colleague Angelov said, you neglected to note that regarding the registration of religions, the regime will only apply to newly registered religions and will not affect what is now existing, which I think is an important clarification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u78	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go. You don't want to make a doppelganger. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for the proposal to reject § 11 on the Commission report. We are voting for the motion to reject §12. This also applies to § 13. We proceed to a separate vote. We are voting first on the rejection of § 11 on the Commission report. Vote 113 MPs: 101, against 10, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the proposal to reject § 12 on the Commission report. Vote 108 MPs: 97 against 10, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 13 to be rejected. They voted 99 MPs: for 89, against 10, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We vote on the text of the importer for § 14, which becomes § 5. They voted 104 MPs: 104, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 15 to be rejected. They voted 93 MPs: for 83, against 10, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u79	According to § 16 there is a proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... In Chapter 3 "Registration" art. is created. 20a: Art. 20a. (1) The Sofia City Court shall terminate the registration of a religious community: 1. at the request of the religious community; 2. in the event of violation of Article 2. 7); 3. when by its activity systematically violates the requirements of this law; 4. when its activity is contrary to provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The decision under para. 1, t. 1 shall be determined at the request of the central management of the religious community. (3) The decision under para. 1, t. The Council of Ministers or the Prosecutor's Office's Office's request shall be made at the request of the Office of the Ministry of Justice or of the Prosecutor's Office. (4) The decision to terminate the registration on the basis of para. 1, t. 2 "4' is subject to appeal under the general order.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u80	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Commission for § 16, which shall become § 6. They voted 106 MPs: for 106, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u81	According to § 17 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 17 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u82	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 17 to be rejected. Vote 101 MPs: 95 against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u83	Under § 18, there is a proposal from the MP Nikolai Tishev. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in art. 28. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle, but proposes that § 18 be rejected as it is reflected in art. 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u84	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 18 to be rejected as it is reflected in art. 28. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u85	According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi § 19 to change as follows: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. The creation of para. 1: The claim of ownership of ritual, prayer or worship homes, together with the land estates on which they are built, may belong to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church................. the Bulgarian Patriarchate, the registered religions and their local departments respectively. The right of ownership of those objects cannot be acquired by limitation by other entities outside the first sentence. The Commission does not support the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and supports it generally in the rest. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: A forced execution shall not be directed on: 1. temples and monasteries of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church? Bulgarian Patriarchate, and its local departments; 2. prayer homes of registered faiths; 3. items related to the worship activities, rituals and rituals of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, Bulgarian Patriarchate, the registered religions and their local departments.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u86	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi in the part not supported by the Commission. 1 which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 5, against 34, abstention 63. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer in the version of § 19, which shall become § 7. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u87	According to § 20 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it the words "at their own expense" shall be deleted. 2. They're creating an al. 2 and 3: The cemetery parks of faiths are defined as permanent and cannot be changed. Their destruction or closure is forbidden. Funerals in cemetery parks are carried out in accordance with the religious norms of the respective creed. (3) The State and municipalities shall, where possible, assist in the construction of cemetery parks of the respective faiths by providing land-owned property free of charge, state or municipal property, for this purpose.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u88	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the editorial of § 20, which becomes § 8. They voted 105 MPs: 96, none, abstention 9. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u89	Under § 21, there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 21 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u90	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the failure to support the text of the importer and for the proposal to reject § 21. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject the relevant paragraph. Vote 92 MPs: 83 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u91	According to § 22 there is a proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 22 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u92	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal to reject § 22 a proposal from the Commission. In turn, 86 MPs voted: 76 against 9, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u93	Under § 23 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi: In § 23, Article 23 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on supplies can create non-profit legal entities for their support and promotion. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 23 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u94	Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u95	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! In a nutshell, the logic that we follow with this proposal is when a religion creates a non-profit legal entity and that non-profit legal entity commits, respectively, a violation or assumes a debt that cannot subsequently repay, jointly with it, the religion, in order not to create, in practice, legal entities through which, and to whom, the possibility of them being indebted and remain their creditors, respectively, dissatisfied, and practically thus circumventing the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u96	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Vesselinoff, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u97	Mr. Mitev, your motives were not enough. In my opinion, the main thing that this text aims at is something else to prevent the distancing of religion by its NGOs, which are carrying out radical propaganda. If a religion registers its association and it carries out activities that are dangerous to national security, it should also receive a penalty because it does not control its creation. And in that spirit is, in my opinion, the main design of the importer. This, in my opinion, is the main motive for all of us to want to have such a text, because by this logic any registered, with zero members in practice a minimum requirement, religion can create NGOs with which to really do business and become indebted without liability, but the main thing is to carry out propaganda that destroys the state without being responsible again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u98	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. Would you care for a douche bag? You will not take this right. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi, not supported by the Commission. They voted 100 MPs: 18, against 3, abstention 79. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 23. Vote 108 MPs: 99 against 9, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u99	According to § 24, there are two options - a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for Option I and Option II and proposes the following version of § 24, which becomes § 9: "Article 28' is amended as follows: Art. 28. (1) The State shall provide the Bulgarian Orthodox Church with the Bulgarian Patriarchate, and the registered religional state subsidy based on the results of the self-determining individuals to the respective religion in the census of the population according to the data of the National Statistical Institute. (2) The distribution of the state subsidy shall be approved annually by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, depending on the number of self-defined persons to the respective religion under para. 1 in the last population census according to data of the National Statistical Institute as follows: 1. for religions with less than 1 percent of those who are self-determined to the respective creed in relation to the total number of persons counted under para. 1 The amount assigned to each religion; 2. for religions with more than 1 percent of those who are self-determined to the respective religion in relation to the total number of persons counted under para. 1 suppose a subsidy of not less than BGN 10 for a self-determined person. (3) A religion to which a subsidy of less than the amount to be paid according to the criterion under para. 2, p. Second, the State subsidy approved cannot be less than 15 million. lv. (4) For the overseas Epiarchies or Metropolitans in Diocese and the jurisdiction of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the state subsidy shall be granted in amounts approved annually by the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. In these cases, para. 2 and 3 shall not apply. The State subsidy shall be transferred to a special account of the respective Diocese or Metropolitan. (5) In the public interest related to the religious values of the Bulgarian people, faiths may also be granted additional funds over the amount of the state subsidy. (6) The Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for the relevant year indicates the name of the religion and the amount of the state subsidy. (7) By the end of January of the current year, the central leadership of the respective religion distributes the state subsidy to current and capital expenditure, makes a reasoned proposal for the allocation of capital expenditure on sites and informs the Department of. (8) The state subsidy for current costs shall be granted to the central leadership of the respective religion and shall be spent targeted to cover the costs of the religion for salaries and remuneration of the ministers and employees of the religious institutions, for the pursuit of educational activities not covered by the funding under art. 33, para. 3, and for the maintenance of cemetery parks. (9) The granting of the state subsidy for current expenditure shall be carried out by the Office of the Ministry of Ministers by means of transfers of budget resources to special target accounts for current expenditure of the central administration of faiths in four parts: until 30 April, 30 June, 30 September and 20 December. (10) Capital expenditure includes construction and repair of prayer homes, temples and monasteries and their adjacent buildings, buildings of higher spiritual schools and spiritual schools from the pre-school and school education system, as well as construction and repair of cemetery parks. Capital expenditure funds shall be stored through a special target account of the respective religion. (11) The central leadership of the respective religion shall distribute the funds under the state subsidy for current expenditure between the local departments and shall provide by the end of January of the current year to the Department of Religions and of the Council of Ministers a reference to the allocation of the subsidy for capital expenditure on sites. (12) The expenditure of the State subsidy for current expenditure shall be made through payments from the special target account for current costs of the respective religion. Transfers of funds from this account to accounts of local units of faiths are permitted. The withdrawal of cash from the special target account of the respective faith for current costs shall only be allowed up to the amounts of payments for salaries and remuneration of priests and servants of religious institutions. (13) The expenditure of the State subsidy for capital expenditure shall be made through payments from the special target account for capital expenditure. Transfers of funds from this account to accounts of local units of faiths are permitted. The Bank, in which the special target account for the capital costs of the relevant religion is opened, shall execute payment orders only on the basis of presented primary cost accounting documents. (14) The Department of Justice of the Council of Ministers may require the provision of information in the form of summary references and primary accounting documents for the proof of costs and payments up to the amount of the funds provided at a certain time. The provision of the information shall comply with the requirements for the protection of personal data of natural persons. The expenses of the remuneration of priests and servants in the religious institutions shall be controlled only on the basis of summary reports showing compliance with the requirements of art. 29 and up to the amount of the state subsidy. (15) The central leaders of the religions shall provide to the Department of the Ministry of Religions and to the Council of Ministers annually by 31 March generalized annual references and applications thereof containing summary data on the subsidies provided and on their absorption by type of expenditure in the previous year. (16) The funds not used in the special accounts of the respective religion as at 31 December of the current year shall be spent in the following years in accordance with their allocation for the relevant type of expenditure. The central leadership of the religion by 31 January of the following year provides a report to the Department of Religions of the Council of Ministers. (17) The spiritual schools of pre-school and school education system shall be financed from the budget held through the Ministry of Education and Science, the amount of the funds being determined by a decree implementing the state budget. (18) Spiritual schools of preschool and school education, as well as higher spiritual schools, may be financed by the registered religion at whose request they are found. The funding shall be provided for the maintenance of student training activities, students' scholarships, campus students and the maintenance of the material base. (19) The Ministry of Education and Science, through its budget, can finance and approve educational programs that religion can carry out outside the school environment. This funding shall be distributed proportionately between the denominations according to the number of those declared belonging to the respective religion in the last census of the National Statistical Institute population.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u100	Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u101	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm expressing my personal position. I agree with the preceding paragraphs, except para. 19 and that is why I propose a separate vote. My motives are as follows. Alinea 19 reads as follows: The ministry of education and science through its budget can finance and approved educational programs, which faiths can carry out in an extracurricular environment. My concerns are from the words "out-of-school environment." It is true that these educational programs will be validated by the Ministry of Education, but whose control is it? Are they respected and what exactly happens when it is an extracurricular environment?! It is also true that educational institutions are irrelevant in this case, as this is not happening within their territory, but it is still about children, it is about training programmes funded by the Ministry of Education. Therefore, my suggestion is that this paragraph be dismissed. I repeat: I agree with the previous ones and I propose a split vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u103	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm putting it back on the co-worker's side. This is one of the important and good texts... the few that remain, and will have some useful effect. We are talking about the possibility of financing the so-called Sunday schools to the churches, creating values, an additional impulse in terms of our children being more spiritual and developing. Naturally, once the educational program has been established by the Ministry, it is also natural to have control from the Ministry and will be an element of negotiation between the respective religion and between the Ministry of Education and Science. The concerns are unfounded, the text itself is agreed with the Minister of Education and Science and I think it should be supported.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u104	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Are there any other lines? I won't. Would you like a duplicate, Mrs. Anastasova? No. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u105	My fellow Members, one thing we have spoken in the Commission, another I see in the text. [[Noise and lines.]] I will start from there that in the debate on the Bulgarian Orthodox Church was originally recorded and I want to be properly understood by my colleagues and I will make sure that a mistake has been made other than the will of what has been achieved in the Commission. I will start by saying that there were obstructions, there was discontent, there was a dispute that the Bulgarian Orthodox Church with about five and a half million counted members was initially received as was foreseen to 15 million. lv. Is that right? [[Noise and lines.]] That's right. And that didn't correspond to the Muslim religion, which, with about 600,000 people, was getting 6 million. In the Commission, we commented, talked and did not argue, we agreed that the Bulgarian Orthodox Church would not receive less than 15 million. BGN, but see what is para. 3. [[Noise and lines.]] Is that what it was like to make sense? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u106	That's what it says now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u107	In para. 3 writes: A religion of which a claim is assigned, that is to say, the other religion, the State subsidy to be approved, cannot be less than 15 million. The Bulgarian Orthodox Church is not the only Bulgarian Orthodox Church. [[Heckling]] The logic that we developed was clear, and there is no doubt about it, both in the commotion and in the haste, and in the disregard, it is clearly written:..... faith...................................... So that means that the Muslim religion... [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] It can't be interpreted any other way. The text will be: suppose not less than 15 million. lv. That is why my proposal is explicitly to write here: "For the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the size of the state subsidy, which is due according to the criterion under para. 2, p. Two, it can't be less than 15 million. lv. Then the will expressed in the Commission comes where it belongs. Logic becomes the same and the ratio remains.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u108	Are there any lines? There are no lines. Come in for a speech, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u109	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Shopov's concerns are in vain, so I take the floor of speech to distract them by interpreting al. 3. Alinea 3 states: "On a religion to which a subsidy of less than the amount to be paid according to the criterion under para. 2, p. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man 2, p. I stop here with the quote.. is 10 BGN per vote from the last census in self-determined. Because he quotes Muslim religion and says about 600 thousand less, but to accept the figure 6 million. If exactly BGN 10 per vote is determined, the Muslim religion does not fall into the hypothesis of three, because here it is said that the total amount is less than the criterion of BGN 10. out loud. In this case, it is only about Orthodox religion, because there the total amount is about 44 million if the criterion is met. So we're recording this para. 3 only because of the Orthodox religion, because the state may have cases where it cannot give 44 million, and therefore further, the next part of the sentence says: the state subsidy approved cannot be less than 15 million if it is not 44. It's got to be more than 15 million. That's why this particular hypothesis is. For a religion for which the criterion under para. will be fulfilled. 2, p. BGN 10 per vote, it does not fall into the hypothesis of three, and in no way can it go in and ask for 15 million. That's what I wanted to make clear, because this text we thought with both the Ministry of Finance and religion, and with lawyers, we didn't want to make a mistake in order for others to do the same. We didn't get the wrong text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u110	That was Mr. Tsonev's statement. [[Noise and lines.]] Are there any lines to Mr. Tsonev's statement? Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u111	See, this is where the disparity of interpretation begins, some confused concepts and phrases, less phrases, the criteria fulfilled, the criteria not fulfilled, the third paragraph, the second paragraph, some millions we are transferring. This is Mr. Tsonev's interpretation, my interpretation is different. [[Heckling]] Come on, by making laws, let's not create an opportunity of contradictions in interpretation later, misunderstanding and speculation. This text was done not for anything else, but for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and to record as I proposed the text for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, because tomorrow, the next day, who knows who will make the budget so some people want to make the budget. [[Noise and lines.]] What is our will today, that is another matter. Then things can be interpreted in a completely different way. Is that so, honourable Members, in the House of the Commission?! We talked about the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, that according to the criteria it is entitled to at least 15 million, could be more than 15 million, no one was talking about 44. [[Heckling]] Why are we interfering with this text, which concerned the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, and the words of the other religions? I don't put any discrimination here, I don't put any doubt in it, but in the haste and commotion, because, frankly, we get to this second reading with speed and confusion and mistakes. This is a very big mistake that will cause speculation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u112	Mr. Shopov, will you give me the text of the proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u113	This is the same text I read, Madam President, about the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the Bulgarian Patriarchate, the amount due to the criteria under para. 2, p. Second, the State subsidy approved cannot be less than 15 million. lv. This text was targeted for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, not for religion at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u114	Second line? Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u115	Madam President, honourable Members! There really is a ambiguous text here, and we have to accept it. [[Reply from the National Representative Krasimir Velchev.]] At the Commission meeting, it was chaos, a lot of things, so I wanted to have time to look at the report so there wouldn't be a double. In this case it happens that if the administration proposes in its budget, although it has the necessary funds, instead of 5 million of the Muslim religion offered 4 million, then this text enters automatically and we have to give them less than 15. It's not overthinking, the wording needs to be improved. I see nothing wrong with what my colleague suggests being written specifically for the Orthodox Church, which has its fundamental status in the Constitution and which we repeatedly write separately in this text. [[Heckling]] In this spirit, I support either stop for a while and make an amendment that is correct, or I suggest that the text of my colleague be supported. Is there a third line? A line to Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u116	Mr. Tsonev, you have my cue. You may have wanted to tell the House, and more precisely to Mr. Shopov, that what we discussed about the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and the text we argued about and agreed on is the text that will follow and is in § 37, which will become § 19, where this is explicitly and precisely written, which was now commented that the size should not be less than 15 million. lv. That's what we discussed, and I think that's what our colleague meant. So this text, which we are currently commenting on, and this paragraph that you have spoken about, in the Commission, this is precisely something that has not been discussed, and we have been discussing the forthcoming one, which will be § 19. As far as I remember, we were all united then for the text we are currently voting on. The argument we're having, I think it's about the text that's shortly after that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u117	Thank you, Mrs. Alexieva. For the doppelganger? You don't want to. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u118	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! I support the proposal Mr. Shopov made. But thinking further in time: why we should limit the state subsidy of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, which is recorded in the Bulgarian Constitution. Tomorrow another authority will come to the state for example and will decide that it cannot be 44 million for the Orthodox Church, will say: "Here you are 15! " We shut down the churches, we banish the priests because the church can't pay?! Is this what the Bulgarian National Assembly should allow: some next government to decide that it is not profitable to give money to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church?! We don't agree. [[Noise and lines.]] A country will always find funds, especially for the main religion, for this church, which has preserved us as a people who fought for liberation and for independent Bulgaria, which protected the national interests of the Bulgarian people. Today, with this proposal, we say: tomorrow we will give you 15 million. BGN, the day after tomorrow 44, the day after tomorrow 21, that is, we bring the church into chaos. What budget will they draw up? How many priests will there be? How will the Orthodox Church make an example program for the repair of temples and so on for the next 10 years? Why should we give such uncertainty to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church?! So I suggest that the proposal for the limit of 15 million should be completely dropped, that it could actually be 10 leva. on every count. [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] On the contrary, it's a restriction. The state tomorrow says that there is no money and can not give 15 million only to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Why? Then why are we making 10 leva? On count, and next thing you know, we're limiting to 15! Why? [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Who doesn't? A country can't find 44 million. lv. for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church?! Well, that's a shame! It's not a country! It's not a country! So my suggestion is, please sign up, I want my colleagues' proposal dropped and there is no limit to receipt...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u119	What kind of dropout? For al. Are you talking 3?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u120	There's no limit to the 15 million. On the contrary, BGN 10 on every count. The other important thing I would like to point out, because it is also very important, due to certain management errors at the National Statistical Institute and in certain policies of different governments over the years, the census in Bulgaria has started to pervert. At the time of the last census, the column "Religiosity' was not mandatory and the column "Religiosity' was mandatory and the column "Refrigerator' was compulsory. Do you understand that it is more important for the Bulgarian state to find out whether the person has a refrigerator and not whether he is Orthodox, whether he is Sunni, whether he is Shiite or any other? So I insist in 2021, in order for there to be an objective distribution of funds from the state to religious communities, the columns for religious affiliation to be mandatory. There the person can point out that he is not a believer, there is no problem in that, but I really want to know that we will do so that in the next census in 2021 and ethnicity and religion are mandatory in order to have justice. In the last census in Bulgaria, it turns out that there are three million and few Christians and half a million Muslims, but does anyone believe it, and we all know that over 6 million are Christians and children. Do children count in the religious communities of this census? No. Aren't they Christians and Muslims or Jews and so on? [[Heckling]] Yes, they are. Here we really need to work for the next census in order to have objective results and fair distribution of funds from the state to religious communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u121	You're suggesting that we drop para. Three?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u122	Yeah, I'm offering the 15 leva limit. drop out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u123	Any other speeches? Mr. Vesselinoff, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u124	I'll take the floor for a short line. Mr. Angelov, you forgot to remind us that it was the United Patriarchs who offered this fair way to distribute the claim equally to everyone. As there is no equal to all, in a sense equal to vote, then a proportional reduction in all, and not a reduction in the Orthodox Church, the Muslim religion or any other benefit, because he needs it so much. And the Orthodox Church may need 40 million, but we say there's nowhere to get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u125	Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u126	Dear colleagues, let us look at the texts systematically. I want to go back to al. 2, where it is said that the allocation of the state subsidy is approved annually by the State Budget Act, according to the state budget options in one year or another. For this reason are the following texts that say: for denominations of less than 1 percent of those self-determined to the respective religion and the amount is determined for each religion, and for denominations of not less than 1 per cent of self-determinings, where the amount is determined for each person not less than BGN 10 However, the specific amount will be set in the State Budget Act for the year in question. That's why we have an al. 3 which says that regardless of the possibilities of the budget and how it will distribute them, in no case for these religions under point 3. 2, namely the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the subsidy cannot be less than 15 million. lv. In other words, there is a lower limit below which, regardless of the budget options, cannot be lowered, but over this limit there is no problem with the State Budget Act each year setting another amount of subsidy higher than this minimum limit. So I don't see drama in al. 3. [[Heckling]] Of course there's no drama. Alinea 3 defends the position that in no case, regardless of the state of the budget, whether it is a deficit or not, less than 15 million cannot be determined subsidy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u127	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any other lines? Third line please, Mr. Shopov. There won't be a line. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u128	I'll answer it this way. It became clear exactly what is happening to what the DPS is proposing right now. It's clear. That is to say, for the Mufti, we will give 6 million for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church 15 million. Is that fair? [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Why? Why should we limit the budget of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, subsidised by the state? Why? So Mufti gets 6 million mandatory, and the Orthodox Church this year can get 15, next year 16. [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] That's what you're suggesting. You propose that a creed, which is officially in our country, which is written in the Constitution, should not receive 44 million, as Orthodox Christians have declared, but to limit it to the budget of 15 million, and otherwise the Mufti will take 6 million always because it is registered 600 thousand. What's fair? Let's do the same for the parties. vote for a party, but no more than 5 million per party and a subsidy coalition. Let's do this, Mrs. Stoyanova, shall we?! Big parties and coalitions with a ceiling of 5 million, not less than 5 million, come on. Let's do it the same way. Why don't you offer that, too? This thing affects the interests of the Bulgarian state. It undermines the Bulgarian national interests and interests of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. Today you are making it possible for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church to be harmed by a subterranean, bad, obnoxious and anti-Bulgarian law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u129	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. It's the way it's supposed to be. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u130	Madam President, although Mrs. Jeffer was in charge of the meeting, my procedure is as follows. Don't let the stands talk nonsense. That's bullshit! [[Replications from OP.]] First of all...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u131	Calm down, fellow Members, order in the court! Here you go, Mr. Tsonev, go ahead.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u132	It could be a little different tone, couldn't it? Because I have no problem putting in the other tone. None at all! [[Replications by MP Pavel Shopov.]] Do you have a problem?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u133	Mr. Tsonev, don't mess with the room. I've got the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u134	The proposal is not a proposal from the European Commission, but a proposal from the Commission. The text was very clearly discussed in the Commission and everyone united around this text. Second, it is against giving the full size of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and in the course of the Law-making we said it, there is no... [[SIGHS]] It's in the way of conduct because they allowed you to talk nonsense from this tribune and attack the parliamentary group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u135	Mr. Tsonev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u136	There's no such moment. If the Ministry of Finance has the opportunity to give 44 million, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is for. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u137	Mr. Kirilov, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Tsonev, please! Mr. Angelov, please calm your passions!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u138	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I, too, will begin with an appeal to bring down the passion and emotion of commenting on the proposal that we are discussing. I would very much like to commend my fellow Members from the Committee on Religions and Human Rights that they have succeeded in reaching the texts which I believe are most consistent with the will of the debate on the establishment of the subsidy regime. The first and most important criterion, honourable Members, which we must respect, is equality of religion and protection of the European standard for freedom of religion. If you wish, I will repeat it again because in the previous statements the nuance of the protection of our leading religious religion Orthodoxy prevailed. The fact that objectively established criteria are established, although some colleagues, who have more difficulty with mathematics, have actually introduced the general standard and general rule in terms of financing and state support for religious activities. The only criterion that is objective, measurable quantitatively is the 1% limit. I think it is a great achievement to bind this objective criterion to the annual state budget. I believe that in this situation, too, in this version, we have a strong constitutional and legal protection of the norms that are of the highest rank and which we should take into account. I will personally support this text and again say, after the difficult debate that I have witnessed in much of the discussions, I believe that this is a regime that is a contribution to this arrangement and should be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any lines to the statement? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u140	Dear Mr. Kirilov, as a lawyer, I thought you would read the texts and make a systematic interpretation of the text. 1, para. 2, the relevant points, the criterion 10 BGN and for this criterion BGN 10 when violated. No one is saying that the rights of the Muslim religion have been violated, according to this criterion of BGN 10. I thought that's what you were gonna say. You spoke very generally and wishful thinking about things. If we make a systematic interpretation of the text, a legal interpretation, not even as financiers and economists, we will see that the will that is supposedly expressed by all of us is the Orthodox Church to receive at least 15 million. Lev, then we'll see that we're absolutely right. I cannot understand why this rage is, why this discontent is, as in the text we can bring absolute certainty, predictability and clarity with the adoption of this very small amendment. We understand that a mistake has been made in the Commission. The text has not been looked at, it has not been properly formulated, according to the will of the Members............................................................................. It was all about the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and nothing else, and let's record it! I don't know what the standoff is about. Because if we can't get along here, you know what the speculation will be tomorrow. They're going to start right now about this argument we're having about this misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u141	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Second line, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u142	Dear Madam President, Mr Kirilov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In fact, I have come to know the laws of European countries and I say that this law, which we are currently preparing, is perhaps the most tolerant law in all of Europe and throughout the European Union. But this thing that you say about the budget of the Bulgarian state: if the budget has money, it will give 40 million to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, if there is not enough money, will give no less than 15 million, it already places the traditional religion in Bulgaria, called the Bulgarian Orthodoxy. That's what I'm definitely saying! So 10 leva each. Out loud, the Muslim religion, my respect for it, will receive 6 million every year. However, if the budget has money, then it will be given what is due to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. This, Mr. Kirilov, is called the Laconic Response. Do you know where the answer comes from? From Laconia, the area that the Spartans ruled. When Philip conquers all Greece and reaches Sparta's borders, he sends his envoys to the Spartans to obey him. Do you know what the Spartans say to him because Philip says, "If I enter Sparta, I will destroy you all?" Then the Spartans send an answer to Philip of Macedonia. They say only one word: "If, Philip! " Do you see the difference? That is to say, it is interpreted both so and so, therefore, it is called a "laconic response." When we talk about a state budget, we can't talk laconically. And, secondly, Mr. Kirilov, you say that we learn from Europe. Let's really learn from Europe. There, in Europe, Mr. Kirilov, if you get acquainted with these things, you will see that in Denmark the Evangelist Church has been proclaimed lord-states. In England...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u143	The weather, Mr. Atanasov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u144	... The Church of England has been proclaimed lordship. In Italy and Spain, the Catholic Church was proclaimed dominant. These are the foundations of these countries. And we're actually feeling this right now: if the budget has money, we're putting our traditional religion against Muslimism at a disadvantage. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u145	Thank you. Here's a line for you, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u146	Mr. Kirilov, I listened carefully to your speech, but I could not understand where justice and equality between religion are? We, by law, allow there to be no fair distribution of funds between faiths. That is, we allow the Bulgarian Orthodox Church to be limited by decision, for example, that there is no more than 15 million. BGN, and for other religions, or the other, the formula remains. That's not fair, that's not right. I did, Madam President, a short time ago a motion to drop para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u147	Yeah, I'll put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u148	But I also do this: in para. 2, p. 2: For faiths by more than 1 percent of those who are self-determined to the respective religion in relation to the total number of persons counted under para. 1 supplied for each religion, a subsidy of up to BGN 10 is envisaged for a self-determined person. Not smaller, but up to BGN 10.. I mean, if the state doesn't have money, there won't be money for everyone. Up to 10 leva.!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u149	Editorial amendment?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u150	Editorial, yes. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u151	Okay. That's al. 2, p. 2. Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u152	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members, who have made speeches! I thank my colleague Shopov for wanting to make a systematic interpretation. The systematic interpretation, Mr. Shopov, requires that we analyze para. 5. In the current debate, no one mentioned al. 5 of this text. It's this: In the public interest related to the religious values of the Bulgarian people, faiths may also be granted additional funds above the amount of the state subsidy. Alinea 5 in this case has the meaning.. I am not sure whether the concept that I will use, I look into the eyes of Mrs. Menda Stoyanova has the character of equalizing, compensatory, fair, additional subsidy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u153	It's up to us here. [[Reply from OP: Here is wishful thinking!]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u154	What's the wish? [[Replications from OP.]] Yes, we can, because we are going to the second speech of colleague Slavcho Atanasov about the laconic answer if it comes to this hypothesis. And as the budgeters rightly say: this issue will be solved here, it will be decided specifically for the year in question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u155	There must be clarity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u156	We've been given final clarity, colleagues! You have two criteria. [[Replications from OP.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I don't want to say it from this tribune...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u157	Colleagues, let's listen to Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u158	...but by these criteria we can easily be accused of protectionism at the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. [[Loud noise and lines from OP.]] That's what I'm telling you. That's what I'm trying to tell you. Our Orthodox interest is protected. Both criteria are objective and protectionist. I hope no one uses this statement in any dispute before the Constitutional Court. I don't understand why you can't see the obvious because of the conjuncture. If you can't figure it out, I forwarded to you the economic, financial analysis of these norms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Veselinov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u160	Madam President, honourable Members! I take the floor not on this text, but on the rejected options, which contained the little meaningful content actually of the Bill signed by Mr. Tsvetanov, Mrs. Nino and Mrs. Karadayi....................... In fact, when this bill was tabled, we subsequently introduced ours, we criticised it for being extremely undersized, with very few measures against radicalism and for the benefit of national security. That was the only one. Today we witnessed between first and second readings that the victims of the improvement of the repair between the two readings will be Orthodox. We have also witnessed attempts at restitution of the Vakof property, we have also witnessed attempts at amnesty of the responsibilities of the Muslim religion, so this bill may have to be called a draft in favour of the Muslim religion. However, I appeal, if there is a shred of honor and common sense left, to support your proposal to ban donations. We will support him firmly. I demand that the rejection of Option I be revoked by the Commission and these texts, which say that donations from foreign countries and foreign individuals are made after prior authorisation by the Department of Religion and the Council of Ministers to remain in force. We have the same text elsewhere, but now is the main dispute. In fact, it is now largely the indication of whether there is any point in having the debate in the Chamber at all, or if someone somewhere has predicted what will happen in this Chamber, you have agreed. Then our presence in this room will become unnecessary. We insist on correcting the text editorially so as to ensure the interest of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, and we insist on Option I of the proposal that you have made to be accepted. If not, I think our presence in this room will be unnecessary. However, there will remain the red line that you do not have to cross, with the Vakof property and with the amnesty of religious obligations, because this red line is being monitored by the whole society and you will get into a big pre-Christmas movie if you decide once again to violate the national interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u161	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. The line, Mr. Velchev, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u162	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Veselinov, two months under this law we first made a working group. Then you yourself know how much work has been put into balancing this topic at all. I don't know if there's a more complicated subject here in Parliament. The subject is very, how can I say, complicated and heavy, and we have achieved a balanced bill. All the creeds they wished for were present, and they are not one and two. And here I would like to say: I am astonished by these disputes because the texts that we are reading now, colleagues, have been adopted by the Commission with 14 "for" and not one "for" and not one "abstention." [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u163	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u164	I'm telling you, check it out, there are shorthands. So here to say that something is not being taken care of, that someone hasn't done their job, I can't agree. I can't agree to that! So many people were involved. Everything here is also agreed with the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. I'm saying it. There are representatives up here, on the balcony, on the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, and they know that every single thing that has been questionable or that can be interpreted ambiguously, we have agreed with them. I'm sorry I have to say such things here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u165	- What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Veselinov, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u166	Yes, Mr. Velchev, this law is complicated and delicate. A complex and delicate law should be seen not on a punch, seconds after the report has been submitted. We should have had enough time to look at the editorials that the Commission has proposed. Let's see if there are any gaps or not in this report, because I, with the first paragraph we started, showed you a flaw in your committee's work. I don't blame them because these people were forced to do the Bill by staying up all night, but this stahanovian rush doesn't lead to good quality. That's one thing. Secondly, just because we have listened to all the parties concerned, all the religions, does not mean that we have to agree to everything. The subject of donations is a noun. We cannot give 50, 15, 5 million and at the same time say: yes, anyone else can finance you and you must feel obliged to anyone else. It's fundamental, we don't have to compromise here. Of course, each of the creeds has the benefit of not announcing their donations at the same time receiving money from the state. Are we statesmen, or are we sliding along the line of least resistance? So, colleagues, this is a crucial moment. Support your proposal, we will support you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, I vote on Mrs. Anastasova's proposal. Nineteen drop out. They voted 117 MPs: 17 against 64, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. Now I'm voting on Mr. Angelov's motion to drop para. 3. They voted 125 MPs: 19 against 22, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. Now we have an editorial amendment to para. 3 at Mr. Shopov's suggestion. They voted 118 MPs: 19 against 23, abstentioned 76. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote Mr. Angelov's editorial amendment in para. 2, p. 2 to become up to BGN 10 They voted 122 MPs: 19 against 23, abstention 80. I am now putting to the vote the Commission's non-supported text of the importer for Option I. They voted 129 MPs: 16 against 12, abstention 101. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting the editorial of § 24, which becomes § 9. Colleagues, call off the vote! Mr. Velchev correctly made me a note. We'll reschedule. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u168	There is another proposal:........................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u169	Option I voted it, but I didn't read Option II. Both options are not supported. I put to the vote the Commission's non-supported text of Option II importer. They voted 115 MPs: 18, 12, abstention 85. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the version of § 24, which becomes § 9 of the Commission Report. Vote 112 MPs: 100 against 7, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u170	According to § 25, there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadaye to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 25 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u171	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 25. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u172	Under Paragraph 26, there are two options. Proposal from the National Representative Nikolai Tishev. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for Option I and Option II and proposes the following version of § 26, which becomes § 10: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 29 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and amended as follows: suppositions with the priests and the servants of religious institutions shall be governed by the statutes of the religious institution. The maximum amounts of the basic monthly salaries paid by the State subsidy to the ministers and servants of religious institutions, with the exception of the salaries of persons in the governing bodies of religion, shall not exceed: 1. the average basic monthly salary for the pedagogical specialist for the priests; 2. the average monthly salary of employees in public sector employment and service, according to data from the National Statistical Institute for employees in religious institutions. 2. Paragraphs 2, 3, 4 and 5 shall be inserted: The ministers and employees of the religious institutions may be Bulgarian citizens or foreigners who have received the status under art. 23, para. 1, t. 2 - 4 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria, respectively under art. 7 of the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens and members of their families. (3) The Central Manuals of Religions maintain records of the priests and servants of religious institutions by providing Directorate The Council of Ministers' confessions and the possibility of access to, and access to, the Council of Ministers' religions Those registers. (4) Each priest shall be provided with a certificate issued by the central authority or by a local branch of the respective religion to be legalized as a representative of the religion. (5) Priests of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs may participate in worship after notification of the Department of Religions of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u173	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the amendment of § 26, which becomes § 10. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u174	Under § 27, the Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 12. The Commission proposes to create a new § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the words "health or social institution' shall be replaced by "health institution or social institution'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u175	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the importing text of § 27, which shall become § 11; § 28, which shall become § 12, and a new § 13. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Paragraph 29 has two options. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer for Option I and Option II and proposes the following version of § 29, which becomes § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "church" a dash is placed and the Bulgarian Patriarchate is added. 2. In para. 5 the word "houses" is replaced by "institutions." 3. In para. 6 and 7 before the words............................................................................................................................. The Bulgarian Orthodox Church is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u176	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's non-supported text of the importer for Option I and Option II. 90 MPs voted: 5 against 9, 76 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version of § 29, which becomes § 14 of the Commission Report. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u177	Under § 30 there is a proposal from the National Representative Boris Vangelov Borisov in § 30, in art. 35, p. 11 words "religious radicalism" are replaced by "radical ideologies" on a religious basis. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi: The following amendments shall be made in § 30: "1." In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 After the words of this Law the words under the Law on Administrative Violations and Penaltys shall be added. 2. Point 2 to drop. 3. Point 3 (c. 10 and The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and 3 and does not support under point 3. 1. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35, ct. 1 Finally, the following is added and controls the compliance with the provisions of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u178	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Boris Vangelov. They voted 92 MPs: 10, 20, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote what is not supported by this point. One proposal from Mr. Tsvetanov and Mr. Karadayi. Vote 89 MPs: 5 against 17, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 30, which shall become § 15 of the Commission Report. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u179	Paragraph 31 has two options. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the version of the importer for Option I and Option II and proposes that § 31 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u180	I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 31 on a proposal from the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u181	Under § 32, there is a proposal from the MP Boris Vangelov: In § 32, § 1 of the Additional Provisions, e.g. 4 is amended as follows: "4." Radical ideology on a religious basis is dangerous to national security actions, sermons, texts, statements or addresses: (a) denying the secular nature of the State, contest or replace the rule of law with other rules of conduct or refer to such; (b) denying the fundamental rights and freedoms of man, contest or replace the manner established by the Constitution and the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria in which they are exercised; (c) by which people are opposed on religious or religious grounds; (d) by which they are preached, promoted or justified by terrorism or war on religious or religious grounds; (e) using symbols or signs of terrorist organisations; (f) using religion, religion, its organs, temples, traditions or ritualism for political purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. A proposal by the National Representative Vasil Andonov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 32, which becomes § 16: ......... 16........................................... Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions lays down t. 4, 5, 6 and 7: "4." "Holy servants" are persons of spiritual importance in the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and in the registered creeds, who serve under the creed to carry out the respective creed according to its statutes, canons and traditions. Spiritual titles in religious institutions are defined in their statutes. 5. The salary and remuneration of a priest or servant of a religious institution shall include the basic monthly remuneration with a time and social and health insurance ratio. 6. A prayer home or temple is a building designed to carry out public worship activities and religious rites that meets the requirements of the respective religion and the provisions of the Law on Structure of the Territory and Regulations. 7. As an object, Manastir is a sacred place with a temple and other buildings intended for the dwelling of monks or nuns who, with their vows of chastity, asceticism and obedience, have dedicated themselves to a secluded pious life and exercise of movement (restraint, prayer and labor), mercy and spiritual support.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u182	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Boris Vangelov. They voted 86 MPs: 9 against 21, abstention 56. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 32, which shall become § 16, proposed by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u183	Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi: A new paragraph with the following content shall be established: I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Paragraph 4 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Religions Act makes the following amendments: 1. In para. 2 the word "inquiry" is replaced by "application." 2. In para. 3 after the word "receipt" shall be added in the order of art. 530 and according to the GPC, in this case the provisions of art. 531, para. Art. 2, Art. Art. 534 535 of the GPC shall not be applicable and a new sentence shall be created: "The decision referred to in the previous sentence shall be entered in the register referred to in Article 18. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u184	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote Mr. Tsvetanov and Karadayi's unsupported proposal. Vote 92 MPs: 7 against 7, abstention 78. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u185	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 33 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 33 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u186	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the name of the division and the rejection of § 33. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u187	According to § 34 there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, religions shall present the list under art. 12, para. 2 of the Office of the Ministry Council of Ministers. According to § 35 there is a proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 35 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u188	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 34, which shall become § 17 of the Commission Report, and the rejection of § 35. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u189	According to § 36, there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadaye to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. (1) Higher spiritual schools under art. 33, para. 7 are registered under the Law on Higher Education within three years of the entry into force of this Law. (2) The Department of the Ministry of Religions of the Council of Ministers shall supervise the educational content and validate the diplomas issued by the spiritual universities until the registration under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u190	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. They voted 98 MPs: 13, against 1, abstention 84. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 36, which shall become § 18 of the Commission Report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u191	Under § 37, there is a proposal from the National Representative Nikolai Tishev, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi, which is generally supported by the Commission. A proposal from the National Representative Vasil Antonov, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 37, which becomes § 19: "Seriously, I'm The State subsidy for 2019 of religion under art. 28, para. 2, p. 2 is the amount of 10 BGN. for a self-determined face. The total amount of the State subsidy under art. 28, para. 3 could not be less than 15 million. BGN, providing proportionately for the period of the first day of the month following the entry into force of this law, until the end of 2019. The necessary funds for 2019 under art. 28, para. 2, p. 2 and para. 3 shall be at the expense of the established costs with art. 6, para. 4, rows Nos 2 and 3 of the State Budget Act for 2019 and the difference to the required amount of the state subsidy is approved as additional expenditure under the budget of the Council of Ministers for 2019 under art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u192	Please come in for an editorial amendment, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u193	Thank you, Madam President. My fellow Members, and in the Commission, I said that this new § 19 regulates the budgetary relations of the state with the beliefs on the texts that we adopted today. After the necessary consultations to be done with the Ministry of Finance, I would like to propose a new version of § 19, so that it is consistent with the entire budgetary technology, and it is as follows: .....19......................................................................... (1) The Commission shall not support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm The State subsidy of religion under art. 28, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 for 2019 shall be approved by the Council of Ministers, such as the subsidy of religion under art. 28, para. 2, p. 2...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u194	Mr. Tsonev, does he or she approve?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u195	He's okay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u196	"Determinate."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u197	The text is supposed. If you have an additional editing after that? Let me read it and then we'll comment on it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u198	Yeah, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u199	I'll read it from the beginning: "Seriously, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. (1) State subsidy of religion under art. 28, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 for 2019 shall be approved by the Council of Ministers, such as the subsidy of religion under art. 28, para. 2, p. 2 is the amount of 10 BGN. for one self-appointed person and the amount of subsidy under art. 28, para. 3 could not be less than 15 million. lv. The necessary funds for 2019 under art. 28, para. 2, p. 1 and 2 and para. 3 shall be at the expense of the established subsidies and expenses with art. 6, para. 4 of the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 and the difference to the necessary amount of the state subsidy is approved as additional expenditure under the budget of the Council of Ministers for 2019 according to art. 109, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act. (2) For the year 2019, the time limits referred to in art. 28, para. 7 and 11 are one month from the entry into force of an act of the Council of Ministers under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. I'm giving it to you in writing, Madam President. Allow me to take an attitude with respect to....................................................................................................... He approves because it is an act of the Council of Ministers. Since the budget has already been adopted, we delegate the right of the Council of Ministers to make these transfers and to approve. That's what this is about. I suggest that it remain as is the text.... does not define................................................................................................ This is about budgetary technology that we delegate to the Council of Ministers with this decision that we are going to take right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u200	Mr. Tsonev, I paid attention to you because what they gave me here was a little different. [[The designated representatives of the National Assembly Yordan Tsonev and Danail Kirilov and the Chairman.]] Colleagues, I'm putting to the vote the editorial that Mr. Tsonev just did, under § 19. Voted 103 MPs: 93, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the Commission's amendment proposal for § 37, which shall become § 19, with the version adopted by Mr Tsonev. Vote 98 MPs: 88, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u201	Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi: A new § 37 shall be created with the following content: ...... 37........................................................................ The State Budget Act for each year also lists the beneficiaries of the subsidy under art. 28, para. 2, p. 2. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u202	Statements? I can't see. I am voting on the unsupported proposal from the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 8 against 13, abstention 81. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u203	Paragraph 38 is in two ways. Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and, as a general rule, c. 2. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for Option Ι and Option ΙΙ and proposes the following version of § 38, which becomes § 20: .................................................................................. In the Law on pre-school and school education (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 52, para. 4 the words of the respective creed shall be written.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u204	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the version of § 38, which becomes § 20. Please, voting mode. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u205	Under § 39 there is a proposal made by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi: Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi: In Paragraph 39 of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the The Spiritual Schools of Art. 9, para. 1, t. 3 shall be financed under the conditions and under the order of art. 28, para. 18 " 20 of this Law. " The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u206	I put to the vote, first, the unsupported proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. Please, voting mode. They voted 105 MPs: 16 against 1, abstention 88. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 39, which shall become § 21. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u207	According to § 40, there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadaye to drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u208	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. They voted 105 MPs: for 6, against 4, abstention 95. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 40, which shall become § 22, supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u209	Under § 41, there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 41 be rejected. According to § 42, there is a proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadaye to drop out. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 42 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u210	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the Commission's proposal to reject paragraphs 41 and 42. Please, voting mode. Voted 103 MPs: 99, none, abstention 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u211	Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi: A new paragraph with the following content shall be set up in the Transitional and Final Provisions: The productions under § 4, para. 3 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law on Religions, which until the entry into force of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Religions have not ended with the judgment of the Sofia City Court, shall be terminated and examined by that court in security order, and the application under which they are formed shall have the meaning of an application within the meaning of Paragraph 4, para. 2 of the transitional and final provisions of the Religions Act. The rest of the proceedings are being completed in the current order. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u212	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. They voted 98 MPs: 5 against 10, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u213	Proposal from the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov and Mustafa Karadayi. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In the Law on Construction of the Area (prom., SG No. ...) in art. Paragraph 148 is created. 14: s) Building permits, including those issued upon approval of a complex project for investment initiative, shall be issued for prayer homes, temples and monasteries intended for worship activities only to a person who is a believer or his local unit within the meaning of the Religions Act. The Commission proposes to create new § 24 and 25: .................................................................................. In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24, para. 1, t. 9 Finally a sentence is created second: the prayer homes, temples and monasteries should be entered in the register under art. 12, para. 3 of the Religious Law.................................................................................................. 2. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 36 and 37 are amended as follows: ..36. A prayer home or a temple is a concept within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 6 of the Additional Provisions of the Religions Act. 37. "Manastir" is a concept within the meaning of § 1, point. 7 of the Additional Provisions of the Religions Act. § 25. The Law shall enter into force as from 1 January 2019
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u214	Statements? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u215	My fellow Members, I use the case that this is the last paragraph of the Law to enter into force to say a few words in connection with the Law, because too many false things have been spoken and too many unnecessary things have happened in connection with this law. The initial idea of the Law, which we united around at the outset, was for the Law to apply only to funding, and this was the decision of the Advisory Council on National Security. Two consultative councils took this decision one after the other, where all parties and all the institutions of the state are present. Then, however, those Members who are not presently in the Chamber decided that this law should do something else that seemed to them as a protection of national interest, but it was nothing more, nothing less serious about violation of religious rights and freedoms, and international institutions reacted, and religion reacted. It is a topic that is extremely sensitive throughout the world and, thank God, it is. We had to work for more than a year to find some consensus for the entire parliament so that they could participate. This was not found and the two laws were introduced, from which an attempt was made to make a common law. Remember one law entered with the signatures of the three parliamentary groups of GERB, the BSP of the leaders, and the DPS. The following things, which happened with the disagreements of the creeds, were mainly due to the Eastern Orthodox Church on the occasion of this bill and the attempts in it to reach out to certain religious rights and freedoms. Finally, I would like to say that the Law has become difficult because it has made some people difficult, the Law has become controversial because it has made it so, even there have been protests outside. This option, which we adopted today, is the version around which four parliamentary groups have united in this National Assembly and, more importantly, all the major religions in the country have united around this law. We may be at peace with the conscience. The Law is good, it will ensure the financial independence of religion and will not harm their rights and freedoms. On behalf of our parliamentary group, I would like to thank all those who participated and who accepted it, and especially the President of the Commission. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u216	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. Come in for a cue, Mr. Karadayi.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u217	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Tsonev, just one addition to your speech. On behalf of our parliamentary group, honourable Members, we wish you merry Christmas holidays, successful, healthy and happy New Year! Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u218	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Here you go, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u219	Colleagues, I am joining you before the last vote. I would really like to thank everyone, absolutely all of you, and faiths, and people who have not spared their work these two months, participating in all the working groups. I also thank you, representatives of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, for understanding and for being fully consensual with you, along with all the basic religions. I must tell you that the other day, upon completion of the Commission, absolutely all participating religions expressed their gratitude to Parliament for the adoption of this law. From me also to all participants, and here in the hall, merry Christmas holidays, happy and God to protect Bulgaria! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u220	Thank you, Mr. Velchev. I put to the vote paragraphs 23, 24 and 25. They voted 106 MPs: 106, with no objection and no abstention. [[Applause.]] The motion is accepted. And I want to join you in wishing for a bright Christmas holiday and a happy New Year, colleagues! Those who have parliamentary control, order us to continue in the Chamber. Let's continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Written response from: - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Petar Vitanov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Stoilov; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - from the Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov to a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to four questions from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Nikolay Tsonkov and Nikolay Ivanov; - from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - from the Minister of Culture Boel Banov to a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - from the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - from the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to a question from the National Representative Atanas Stoyanov; - from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - from the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov to a question from the MP Petar Vitanov; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Hristina Sidorova; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the MPs Dimitar Georgiev and Radoslav Stoychev; - from the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to a question from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - by the Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Milen Mihov. The first question for today is to Minister of Economy Emil Karanikov while we wait for Minister Banov. He will answer a question from the National Representative Dimitar Georgiev about the financial situation of "Avionams" AD. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u221	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, colleagues! My question is to the Minister of Economy, what is the state and future of the enterprise? We all know it was purchased back from the state three years ago. This is an enterprise with a great tradition of strategic importance, and it is good to work together to develop and maintain it. Currently, there are about 320 workers and specialists working in this area. That is my question to you, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u222	Mr. Emil Karanikolov, Minister of Economy, for an answer. Please come in within three minutes to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u223	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Georgiev! Firstly, I would like to thank you to the question, because we must always monitor the state-owned companies, which I hope will develop better and better. Majority owner, as you said, of the capital of "Avionams" AD is a state-owned consolidation company. As of 30 September 2017, the Sanctions Committee of the United Nations Security Council decided to amend the list of persons and entities to whom the freezing of funds and economic resources should apply. The 127,000. BGN, proceeds from sale 15 million 653 thousand. lv. A profit of 354 thousand has been reported. lv. The company's liabilities are a total of just over 25 million. BGN, of which 8 million 927 thousand. lv. have a period of requirement of more than one year. As a result of the actions taken within one year, the company itself has significantly improved its financial position as at 30 September 2018. One year after the period I presented to you, the total revenue growth of 59.4% and sales revenue of 74% have been reported. A profit increase of more than 18.5 times has been reported and its amount is 6 million. 546 thousand. lv. compared to that 356 thousand. lv. in 2017 The total amount of liabilities decreased by 5,6% and the amount of liabilities with an obligation above one year by 36,5%. As a result of the results achieved the value of one share of the capital of the company of BGN 0.17. As of September 30, 2017 grew to BGN 3,13. On 30 September 2018, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 30 September 2018 to 30 September 2018. It is apparent from the foregoing that the company is in a stable financial situation, which is a prerequisite for maintaining staff. As of 30 September 2018 the company employs 301 employees and workers, as compared to the comparable period of the previous year, namely 2017, the number has decreased by eight people, and you understand that at least this is how I was told that these are pensioners, there is probably someone else, but eight people is not scary. It is extremely important that we work with the company itself in the Ministry of Economy. In addition to the contracts, you will probably have further questions, with the NATO Ministry of Defence, we are also working on new procedures both in Bulgaria and externally. I am sure that "Avionams" will be one of the companies, which will be praised by an extremely nice company, exceptional specialists. You see, when it is helped, the state does not interfere, let's put it this way, the company works well, but we have to help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u224	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Georgiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u225	Madam President, Mr Minister! This is an example that the state is indeed a good owner and can develop a state enterprise. I have a criticism for you that relations with the Ministry of Defense are not stuck. You know about the question that we asked with colleague Tsonkov to the Minister of Defense for the Su-25 helicopters in question. You have visited the enterprise many times and you know that we have the opportunity to repair these planes in Bulgaria. The idea is that it is good to assist and you to be a little more persistent to the Minister of Defence and to the Prime Minister, so that this enterprise can develop even better in order to preserve the tradition in the company that has been built for years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u226	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Will there be an asshole, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u227	Thank you. I assure you, I am doing my best, but I will continue to work, including with the Department of Defense. Very brief information on the contracts and what "Avionams" will do in 2019. As of now, "Avionams" under long-term agreements with the NATO Logistics Support Agency implements the repair of Mi-8 and MI-17 helicopters for missions in Afghanistan. The firm financial situation of the company allows it to make investments for new assets and training of staff associated with its certification as an organisation for technical maintenance and repair of Russian helicopters Mi-8 and Mi-17. Other projects for repairs of aviation equipment, including for the Bulgarian Air Force, are working on the preparation of the power and staff for implementation. The expectations of "Avionams" for 2019 are to continue the implementation of NATO contracts. In November 2018, the Russian side was contracted to absorb new modifications of helicopters, i.e. Mi-17. We already have such a treaty with NATO. The company has participated in tenders announced by the NATO Agency and is negotiating in the framework of those helicopters to be used in Afghanistan. On 7 December 2018, we have already submitted a price offer in a separate position: Restore and ensure the airworthiness of two Mi-17 helicopters. The preliminary terms of the contract and negotiations with the contracting entity were held on 11 December and the Commission's decision on the ranking of three candidates admitted to participate is expected. I hope that Avionams will be able to handle it. About what you asked me about the Su-25 planes. I assure you of one thing, in this I have assured the Minister of Defence is also a contracting entity, I cannot make his decisions and therefore I do not bear his responsibility, but I have told him one thing, and I am also telling you that the company "Avionams" is available if anything happens and these planes are not repaired, I am sure that we have the power and will assist the Air Force. We're always available if they need us. I'm sure Avionams can handle it. Thank you. I would like to thank you very briefly for your fruitful work this year, to wish you all a bright Christmas and New Year's holidays! Let's be healthy and better next year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u228	Thank you, dear Minister. We also join this desire. Thank you for your participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with a question to the Minister of Culture Boel Banov. The issue is from the MP Georgi Yordanov Yordanov about the construction of an opera hall in the city of Plovdiv. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u229	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Plovdiv is a city with centuries-old or centuries-old traditions in the field of culture. One of the things we can be proud of is the development of opera art. I guess everyone knows about the festival. Unfortunately, we do not realize our opportunities and the Plovdiv opera singers, and not only the Plovdiv opera singers, in general the Bulgarian opera singers are forced to look for scenes outside the country because of the lack of them in Bulgaria. We can proudly say that our festival calls it Little Verona. In the last year, a year and a half in Plovdiv began an initiative to build the House of Opera. Unfortunately, it turns out that due to logistical irregularities, we cannot find the right place. It came to a very heroic idea to collapse the party home of the city, a massive building in which is currently housed part of the municipal administration of Plovdiv and other structures, and in its place to make an opera hall. This can very hardly be realized. There were other ideas for using part of the Plovdiv Fair. At the same time, we believe that there are enough free terrains in Plovdiv that are state-owned, some of them public state-owned, where this idea can be realized. My question to you is: do you have the strategy, will you help us provide suitable ground for the construction of an opera hall and assistance in its financing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u230	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. For an answer, Mr. Boil Banov, Minister of Culture. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u231	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yordanov, the Ministry of Culture has state property acts, granted to it the rights of management for properties located on the territory of the municipality of Plovdiv, representing real cultural values, declared architectural and architectural historical monuments of culture. By decision of the Council of Ministers they are granted free of charge for management of the municipality of Plovdiv. Property and properties with the rights of management of cultural institutes, secondary officers with a budget to the Minister of Culture are: Drama Theatre Plovdiv, public government property provided for the management of the Drama Theatre "Masalitinov".................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. m, representing public state ownership granted for the management of the State Opera Plovdiv. Property, government property not provided for management under the established order, shall be managed by the regional governor at their location. In the light of the foregoing, I believe that the necessary information on appropriate property state property for the construction of a new building for the needs of the Opera should be available in the district administration. Free municipal properties in the municipality are also an opportunity to build a new opera. The Ministry of Culture assists in financing capital expenditures of all its secondary officers, within the framework of the Budget Programme "Performing Arts" and considers it appropriate to store the Concert Hall of Plovdiv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u232	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Yordanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u233	Thank you, Madam President. I'll start at the end of your answer. I would like to thank you because the opinion that the Concert Hall in Plovdiv cannot become an opera hall, because the technology of both art types, although musical, is quite different, and if we were going to upgrade the concert hall, we would spoil it. It will not be very good for opera art or for the Philharmonic, where it is currently housed, but here it is about something else. In Plovdiv there are a lot of properties that are mainly the Ministry of Defence, which have lost their purpose, there are also commercial companies. We are talking about them: could we, and you as a representative of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, do the necessary properties, which are also in the center of the city, the former headquarters of the Second Army, which is currently not used for the purpose of being assigned for cultural use and there to do this opera theatre, something that will be of national importance? Moreover, you know what difficulties we have at the moment in the realization of Plovdiv's European Capital of Culture, that is to say, almost nothing that was foreseen as logistics, which we Plovdiv people hoped would happen so that we could meet, if not the whole world, at least Europe in suitable halls, in suitable premises, will not be realized and we will rely only on the warm months of the year to use the Antique Theatre, and we will not be able to use the cold months to realize our entire cultural program. Please accept this idea in your heart. If we unite, we can do this thing that Plovdiv deserves "Plovdiv House of the Opera." Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u234	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Will there be a hole, Minister? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u235	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Yordanov, there is hardly any minister of culture in the world who would not have wished, within the framework of his rule, at least, the beginning of the construction of an opera, in a serious cultural centre, such as the city of Plovdiv. I cannot hide that my main task is to do the Philharmonic Concert Hall, because it is not in good condition. I cannot hide that the decisions of the Municipal Council for the collapse of the high building to some extent make it difficult for the hypothesis to become a concert hall faster, because the two buildings are joined and one possible demolition of the high building is unclear how it will affect the lower one. This decision of the Municipal Council is in a judicial phase, it is grieving. So there is certainly a desire, waiting for the procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u236	Thank you, dear Minister. Happy holidays to you too! Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. We are going with questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. The first question is by Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev about the lack of soundproofing wall and sewerage in the village of Churek, Elin Pelin municipality. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u237	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! Before I read to you what I have prepared as a question, Madam Minister, first of all, thank you for being here, this implies your serious attitude. This is not a standard question for a Bulgarian village. Unfortunately, I know that these questions are common because the problems are about the same in the small settlements, but specifically for this picturesque, beautiful village of Churek, which is 26 km away from Sofia, where people are in serious trouble. Cars literally walk on their heads because of the Hemus Highway, which passes within meters of these people's houses. The problem is extremely serious. This is the first time I've been there, and I have to tell you, this whole thing about cars and TIRes really can't stand it. These people have been lied to for so many years, and for this, please take some measures. Madam President, here I will ask to read part of the question now, then I will address you with two other problems of their own, but the village of Churek is entitled to a decent existence because there are decent people living there and they need normal living conditions. The signal I received from the village of Churek is for three problems. You know, I told you where it was. People say that this heavy road artery, it's about the highway, it doesn't have a dense soundproofing barrier, and they feel the movement of vehicles as a sound color in their homes, and it's not just, it vibrates and everything shakes. The noise level, which is more than 90 decibels, is measured on the ground, at a permissible level of the European requirements for an intensive movement up to 60 decibels. The lack of a wall also affects the air pollution of the village. The soundproofing solid wall aims to reduce and deflect noise from passing vehicles. Such a facility can be made up of three parts, you know, dense, transparent and porous and so on. After that, I'll finish. But such noisy barriers should be placed not only because of sound, but also for animals that do not go out on the highway and so on. After that, I'll be able to ask you the other questions. I'm sorry that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u238	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u239	Mr. Chenchev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In 2018, an updated noise map was made at 1122 km of road sections in the Republic of Bulgaria with traffic over 3 million motor vehicles per year. The card was approved by Order of 14 November 2018 of the Minister of Health. In the development was also discussed and analyzed the section of the highway of Hemus in the region of the village of Churek. The results of the calculations show an over-noise level in the nearest section of residential buildings. You're absolutely right, Mr. Chenchev. An action plan for the updated noise map will be developed in 2019. The aim of the plan is to propose measures to reduce the level of noise from road transport, which affects residents in close proximity to the motorway section of the village of Churek. The Plan will also lay down measures to create health working conditions for the population and protect the environment from noise. Upon approval of the Plan by the competent authority, which is actually the Ministry of Health, financial resources will be provided by the Road Infrastructure Agency to take action to reduce noise in the village of Churek, as well as the other identified sections on the Republican road network. Should I answer the rest of your question or wait for your reply? Regarding the poor condition of the section of the first-class Republican road I-1, passing through the village of Churek, I inform you that the investment programme of the The beginning of the section is before the village of Churek, passes through the settlements of Churek, Deluge and Eleshnitsa and reaches Yana Station. There's a blueprint for the segment. The Agency has launched public procurements to select a contractor for the construction works and the construction supervision. At the moment, the commission's work has not been completed on the procedures. The proposals that have been made will be examined and will proceed to open the price offers. In the event that decisions on the choice of contractor are not appealed, which is expected to be so, contracts will be signed next year with the selected contractors and the construction will start, with the deadline set for the repair being 24 months, and the funds for the implementation are from the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency and will amount to 17 million. 716 thousand. lv. without VAT. With regard to the issue of the lack of sewerage in the pendulums and part of the central zone of the village of Churek, I inform you that Directive 91271 on waste water treatment from settlements obliges the Member States of the European Union, to build sewerage networks in all agglomerations with more than 2000 inhabitants equivalents, and to ensure the biological treatment of sewage from the sewerage networks of the Member States before their discharge at a water site. The village of Churek, Elin Pelin municipality, has a population of just over 300 people, according to the GRA. According to the provisions of the Directive, the construction of a sewer network is not mandatory for agglomerations with less than 2000 inhabitants equivalents, as is the case, and transitional periods for such agglomerations have not been agreed. For these agglomerations, option solutions can be examined and the most cost-effective technique can be chosen for the collection and treatment of waste water, without necessarily being through the construction of a centralised sewerage system and waste water treatment plant. What's more, the centralized gathering... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll finish...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u240	Yeah, finish up. You could have moved on now. Finish up, if you don't mind my coworkers, I just gave you the signal that you delayed the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u241	Moreover, the centralised collection and treatment of waste water in the settlements where the population density is small creates excessive costs for the population for both construction and exploitation, which will lead to a large increase in the cost of the water service. Therefore, for settlements below 2000 equivalents residents should be considered the possibility of organizing purification in modular facilities or finding individual solutions, including through the use of technologies depending on the decision of the municipal authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u242	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Chenchev, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u243	Mrs. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, Madam Minister, thank you for your answer. It is often said here, this word is often used..................... when we ask questions and we receive answers. After all, you've taken the matter of this village to heart. I agree that there are 300 people there according to official data, more are unofficial, close to Sofia. A few problems. First of all, giving me answers that I hope will satisfy the villagers as well. However, you should really update the plans and make this happen, especially with the soundproof wall. The same work, because this time its terrifying state does not allow vehicles and such on long-distance transport and people have to pass through Botevgrad to reach Sofia. There are some ridiculous merry-go-rounds that no one will benefit from, but mostly the people who live there. There may be 300, 500, but these are Bulgarian citizens who deserve comforts deserve a decent life because they are worthy Bulgarians. Of course, the sewer is also a very important issue. I know it is, I know there are no 2,000 people in this village, but we're back at the moment that these people are Bulgarians and have the right to drink clean water because it's not clean at the moment, what I saw. They need these people to feel a shoulder from the state, from the institutions, because so far they have been completely forgotten and almost this oblivion continues at the moment. It is Christmas, I take advantage of congratulating all my colleagues, the parliament's leadership, the Bulgarian citizens. And for the next year in addition to health, I wish everyone in this country to restore normality. Thank you and I hope for timely measures.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u244	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. A hole? You will not use Madam Secretary. We move on to the next issue by the MPs Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev and Radoslav Ljubchev Stoychev regarding road II-82 Borovets Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u245	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Madame Minister! Road II-82 is part of the Republican road network, which covers Kostenets municipality, passes through Dolna Banya municipality, Samokov municipality and ends in Sofia city. The whole road is 86 km long. The most compromised section of the road is between 18 km and 28 km from the village of Raduil and Borovets resort. The station is 10 km long. During the last 10 years, there have been seven-eight road failures and in 2018 there has been a protest by the residents. After the last protest in mid-October of residents from the settlements who serve the road and people who are directly and indirectly linked to tourism in Borovets resort, the media identified this time as a potential killer. After the protest by the Agency, the Road Infrastructure....they admitted that the road was not really pre-financed. The latest road repair was actually made in 2016. According to the Agency's data, the road infrastructure for the repair of this section was estimated to be 540 thousand. lv. The resources used mainly for drainage and cleaning of road gutters. Also, the Road Infrastructure Agency said in October that experts from the department have conducted an analysis of the failures and have prepared a project for each of them. According to their information, the indicative value of the repair amounts to approximately 1 million. 200,000. lv. Madam Minister, the question is: how many failures have been identified along the way, how many of them have worked projects been drawn up, and when will the restoration and introduction of the road actually begin in its required state?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u246	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u247	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Georgiev, Mr. Stoychev, road II-82 Kostenets The second-class route serves really significant traffic all year round, which is why faults often arise on the pavement. On separate locations in the village of Raduil, resort Borovets in the range of km 18 to km 28, due to significant moisture and drainage problems, there are falls on the road. The alarmed areas are signaled with speed limitation signs up to 30 or 40 km, lane marking signs limited to the left, respectively limited to the right, placed bales and signal bands with parallel white and red stripes. On the section at km 25, where dynamics of the failure process have been found, concrete protections with a height of 80 cm are placed in order to protect the movement. The quoted failures are the subject of constant monitoring and control by the experts of the Regional Road Management Sofia. For additional restraint there are also physical obstacles of fresco material. In order to solve the problem it is necessary to carry out repair work and in this regard in early September this year the preparation of a project for strengthening the section of road II-82 Borovets The necessary geological studies to identify the causes of the falls have already been carried out. Within a month, the company contractor will present in Regional Road Management the technology project for strengthening the compromised sections, which is subject to the approval of the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Institute of Roads and Bridges. According to a preliminary expert assessment about 1.5 million with VAT will be needed, these funds will be provided from the budget of the Agency Road Infrastructure for the maintenance of Republican roads in Sofia for 2019. Currently, the Republican roads are in winter maintenance mode and all efforts of the Agency are aimed at ensuring their passage under winter conditions. The fall in the Borovets section is subject to constant monitoring and control by experts and after the winter period the construction works on the site will start immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u248	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Stoychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u249	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, we thank you for the answer you gave us because there was real information in it about when and what has happened so far and what is about to happen. We'd like to ask you one more question. Why, during this entire period of 10 years, since these falls on the road have been formed, the Directorate of Agriculture has observed the process and, if it has observed it, why hasn't it made an adequate decision and sought a more recent decision to take adequate measures to correct the road and falls? I also see in you that there is some assurance that you have taken the matter into account, but I will ask you if these processes that you say have started and started to speed up. You yourself know and are aware, although you have recently been in the Ministry, but the problem is extremely serious. There is a danger that the road will collapse completely and to break the connection that really connects the highway of Trakiya with the highway of Struma. So if possible, we can speed up the process. You say that the technical projects have been drawn up.. if they have to be approved by the Road Infrastructure Agency, let your employees and experts do it in an accelerated order so that things can happen, because several governments and several ministers are already taking such measures, projects are being drawn up, but in the end none of the sections have even started. On the other side, the road, which is quoted in the information of API from Borovets to Samokov, is being repaired and the repair was not so pressing. And here you have to drain the drains seriously, as you said, because of the moisture and the processes that are taking place. In this regard, I thank you once again and ask for adequate and recent decision making and speeding up the process. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u250	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoychev. There won't be a line. We are continuing with the last question for today the honour to ask him there is Mr. Vasil Antonov, about the construction of a section of the highway Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u251	Mrs. President of the National Assembly, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. By Decree of the Council of Ministers of 12 December 2018, the cabinet allocated funds to build a section of the highway of Hemus (Hemus) within 1 billion. The Commission 856 thousand. lv. from the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. The joy of all of this is that on the tenth year of its government the Political Party GERB and the Council of Ministers understood the importance of the construction of the highway for Northern Bulgaria. In this regard, my question to you is also what is the project readiness for the allocated funds from the budget? Where are these funds right now? Who are the companies that will carry out the construction of this section between Boazas and road I-5 Ruse What are the deadlines for starting and completing this segment of 134.2 km? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u252	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. For an answer, the Minister of Regional Development Mrs. Petya Avramova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u253	Thank you, Madam President! Dear Mr. Antonov, gentlemen! Yes, good transport communications are essential for developing the potential of the regions. This leads to economic growth, to new jobs, to income growth, to better quality of life. Through complete completion of the highway, "Hemus" we are really looking for an improvement in the standard of transport services of international and internal traffic, increased security and traffic safety. The government of Bulgaria is committed to the regions located north of Stara Planina and the additional allocation of 1 billion. 350 million. lv. in the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works are an example of real action in this direction. The unit from the road hub to the road I-5 Ruse has a total length of 134.2 km. The route of the future highway in this section runs mainly through the districts of Lovech and Veliko Tarnovo. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the Road Infrastructure Agency are working on a daily basis to complete this significant project. The status of the individual sections of the site is as follows: On the road node section "Boaza" until crossing the road II-35 Pleven "Lovech" length is approximately 52 km, divided into three sub-divisions for which technical projects are currently being developed. For the first section of km 87 until crossing with road III-307, including the road hub "Dermantsi", a third stage of the design contract is developed. Following the adoption of this interim phase of the Expert Council, final design materials are expected to be submitted to the Agency at the end of March 2019. With regard to the second section until crossing with road III-305, including the road hub "Kalenik", a second mid-term phase of the design contract was developed and a meeting was held on 20 December to examine and adopt the levelling solution of options in which to develop the major facilities in the section. It will then begin the development of a third intermediate stage of the design contract, with final design materials expected to be submitted to the Agency at the end of March 2019. At present, only for the third section of the road hub "Kalennik" to the road hub "Pleven" is completed the development of the technical project by 7 months ahead of the provisions of the design contract. For each of the three sections, according to the signed design contracts, plots shall be drawn up to determine the properties and territories to be affected by the motorway route. The procedures for the field security of the motorway of Hemus.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The division from road II-35 Pleven "Lovech" to road I-5 Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo" is approximately 82.2 km long, divided into three sub-divisions for which are selected performers with the task of updating and completing the projects designed by the award of the National Company "Strategic Infrastructure Projects". The contracts with the selected contractors are to be concluded at the beginning of 2019. The deadline for updating and supplementing a detailed development plan is 60 calendar days. The sub-items are as follows: Sub-division 1 from the end of the road node of Pleven, crossing from road II-35 to road III-301, including road node of flight from km 139 to km 166. Sub-division 2 from the end of the road node "Letnitsa" crossing road III-301 to road III-303, including a road node from km 166 to km 189. Sub-division 3 from the end of a road node on road III-303 to road I-5, including a road node from km 189 to km 222. Following the development of the parcel plans, the procedures required in the LOC prior to the approval of the plans by the competent authority, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, will be carried out. On the basis of the approved PSUs, the procedures for the acquisition of land for state use will be carried out and, at best, provided that there is no legal appeal against an estrangement act, those procedures will take about 15 months from the date of admission and development of a plot of land according to the provisions of art. 124a, para. 4 of ZUT. A correction of the length of this section is possible after the preparation of technical projects. Then it will become clear the exact mileage of this section of the highway. On the basis of art. 14, para. 1, t. 6 of the Public Procurement Act I'll finish the answer, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u254	Yes, finish up, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u255	It's a lot, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u256	Finish the topic is important, let it be fully answered.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u257	...of the three subdivisions from road II-35 Pleven "Lovech to road I-5 Ruse " Veliko Tarnovo and for the construction of the whole route of the highway from road hub "Boaza" until the crossing of road I-5. The Road Infrastructure Agency has requested a preliminary opinion from the Public Procurement Agency and from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for this legal option. A draft contract notice has been drawn up and has therefore been sent to the Public Procurement Agency and the Ministry, containing the necessary assessment documents on compliance with the requirements of that provision and with the company's capacity to carry out the contract activities. We expect the construction of the section of Boaza. Until the crossing with road II-35 Pleven. Lovech will begin at the beginning of 2020, after the alienation procedures have been completed. The following time limits for construction works are laid down for the individual units: sub-section 1. 36 months, sub-section 2. 48 months, and sub-section 3. 36 months. Indicative deadline for completion of the site Regarding the section from II-35 Pleven "Lovech" to road I-5 Ruse "Veliko Tarnovo" the planned time for the design of the three subdivisions is 180 calendar days, after which the construction stage will be prepared. In the meantime, we plan to make plot plans and start the procedures for the acquisition of land for state need. These procedures take a considerable amount of time, so they will be carried out at the same time as other construction preparation activities. Provided that there is no judicial appeal against estranged acts, we could plan at the end of 2020 the start of construction in this area. The following time limits and construction works are provided for the individual sub-sections: sub-section I " 36 months; sub-section II " 36 months, and sub-section III " 42 months. Indicative deadline for completion of the site
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u258	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Madam Secretary. Here you go, Mr. Antonov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u259	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for trying to give us a comprehensive answer. It was no accident that I divided my question into separate segments because here, from this tribune, in a question to your predecessor on the last day of his government as minister, I had twice asked the question of building a road network in the municipality of Gulyantsi. So I raised the question today, and are the funds available and are there any guarantees that they will be used in this direction? Because twice this issue was confirmed here by this tribune, including the provision of funds within 22 million. BGN, but it didn't take place. This took place for a few days, then the money was taken back and nothing worked out. Therefore, it is very important to commit that the funds for the construction of the highway will be and are provided. The other thing that's very important. You are entering this sequence for the plotted plans, but on the issue of the route which the Road Infrastructure Agency is working at the beginning of 2005, 2006 and 2007, that is, to a large extent, the route is known and is working on this issue. So, in my opinion, the State and the Ministry, as a principal, has all the resources and must use them to the end to minimise these procedures and be able to enter within the time limits that you mention of running all the procedures to complete this so important section of the highway. Thank you. I wish all my colleagues who are left, and those who are listening to us right now, a beautiful New Year's holidays! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u260	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. Will there be a hole? Here you are, Madam Secretary. Then in the manner of holding Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u261	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Antonov! The good news for everyone is that there are funds available for them are reserved and will be used to build this highway section. All who are involved in its process............................................ will work with the necessary dynamics to ensure the process of preparing the start of construction activities. I would like to wish all of you who are here today, to all Members of Parliament and to you, Madam President, bright Christmas holidays, lots of warmth and lots of light in your homes. Take care!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u262	Thank you, dear Mrs. Avramova, we also wish you a happy holiday! Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov. Before that, just to thank Minister Avramova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u263	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! Madam President, I'm taking procedure in the manner of conduct, a little on the edge of the procedure. I would like to take this opportunity to wish you a wish as a guide to the National Assembly, and in your face to all employees in the National Assembly and the entire administration, and to use the stands of all Bulgarians, some wonderful holidays, a wonderful New Year's Eve! A beautiful, healthy, happy, successful New Year and wishing to work for the good of the Bulgarians more than for the good of ourselves! They must be alive, they must be healthy, and we must be proud that we are Bulgarians. May God protect Bulgaria and wish us a happy New Coming 2019! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u264	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov, I fully join your greetings. Due to the exhaustion of today's parliamentary control, I am adjourned.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-12-21.u265	Regular plenary sittings on 11 January 2019 at 9:00 p.m. Abandoning session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
