ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u1	Hey, guys. Good afternoon. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose to include an additional item in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Importers are Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs on 22 May 2018. I propose that the point be the first point for Friday, 15 June 2018. Please, voting mode. Vote 153 MPs: 150, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the extension of the point: ADMINISTRATIVEMonitoring Report 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Integrating of ROMS 2012 Importer is the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government follows. Mr. Vesselinoff, come in. Time Mr. Vesselinoff because he forgot his card.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on an Administrative Monitoring Report 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. At a regular meeting held on 10 May 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed an Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. In the meeting of the Commission took part: Ms. Malina Krumova Deputy Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, Ms. Rositsa Ivanova Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers, experts from the Council Secretariat and from the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova. The Administrative Monitoring Report was submitted in accordance with the decision of the National Assembly of 1 March 2012 adopting the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration. The report takes into account progress in implementing the National Strategy Action Plan for 2017. The report is made on the basis of the reports submitted on the activities of the responsible institutions and summarised by the Secretariat of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues, which is an advisory and coordinating body which assists the Council of Ministers in developing and conducting state policy on ethnic and integration issues. The report takes into account measures financed by the state budget as well as projects financed by European funds and other programmes implemented in 2017 under the various priorities of the Strategy. The reports from the municipalities are presented for information about the implementation of municipal action plans under the adopted regional strategies, as well as the expert assessment of the progress of the Republic of Bulgaria on the main priorities for social inclusion of Roma. The conclusion presents summary information on the implementation of municipal action plans under the individual priorities, which take into account the objective situation, problems, trends and proposals for decisions made by some of the municipalities. During the discussion, the speakers drew attention to the importance of the specific measures that will be taken to implement the Strategy, as well as to the need for a better analysis of their results. The areas of education, healthcare, domestic crime and improving living conditions were considered problematic. The need to improve coordination and control in the implementation of the measures set out in the Action Plan was reported in order to achieve real practical results that would lead to improvement of the situation of Bulgarian disadvantaged citizens. Specific questions were also raised, which were answered by the representatives of the Council and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government with 10 votes for the Bulgarian National Strategy for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020) and 6 votes for the National Assembly proposed to adopt the Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 for the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802 - 23, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u3	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. The report of the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports Mr. Atanasov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on an Administrative Monitoring Report 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. At its regular meeting held on 30 May 2018, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports examined the Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. The meeting was attended by Ms. Rositsa Ivanova Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers, and Ms. Daniela Nikolova State Expert at the Secretariat of the Council of Ministers. The report was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova. She stressed that the Administrative Monitoring Report is in line with the National Assembly Decision of 1 March 2012 adopting the National Strategy for Roma Integration. A monitoring, evaluation and control system for its implementation has been developed. The main priorities discussed in this report at national level are: education, health, employment, housing, rule of law and non-discrimination, and culture. The development, implementation and reporting of the measures include a wide range of institutions of the executive and local authorities, as well as organizations working for Roma integration on the ground. For the implementation of the measures under the Action Plan for 2017 the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences provides a prepared analysis and expert assessment of the progress of the Republic of Bulgaria on the main priorities for social inclusion of Roma. Information on the implementation of regional strategies and municipal action plans is also provided in an annex to the Report. The focus is aimed at prevention and work in the community, especially with children and young people, in order to form social skills and opportunities for their socialization and realization. Progress has been made in the efforts to study the Bulgarian language by children of whom it is not a mother. It is reported that the motivation of young people with primary and secondary education or unemployed to continue their training in other areas, or to start working. The importer stressed that the analysis of the data collected will be taken into account when developing and updating strategic and programming documents, as well as political solutions that relate to Roma integration. A positive practice is the work of labour exchanges and the development of labour mediation. In the part of the Commission's competence, it is noted that the Ministry of Youth and Sport implements programmes aimed at different target groups annually, without focusing on a particular ethnic group or restrictions. Projects and initiatives have been implemented to integrate minority groups by including them in sports activities, discovering young sports talents from their environments and promoting tolerant interethnic relations through sport. In the subsequent discussion the people representative Vesela Lecheva expressed an opinion and raised questions about the lack of visible results of the implementation of the measures for implementation of the National Strategy for Roma Integration, as well as the way the funds intended for the integration of the Roma population are spent. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 11-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u5	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. The Committee on Culture and Media will present a report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on an Administrative Monitoring Report 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. At its regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 31 May 2018, an Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 " 2020") was discussed, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 3 May 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers: Rositsa Ivanova The administrative monitoring report was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Ivanova. As a priority, Mrs. Silva Hacherian expressed her opinion. The National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration, referred to as the Strategy, is a political framework document defining the guidelines for the implementation of the policy for social integration of Roma. Its aim is to create conditions for equal integration of Roma and Bulgarian citizens in a vulnerable situation by other ethnic groups in public and economic life by ensuring equal opportunities and equal access to rights, goods, goods and services, participation in all public spheres and improving the quality of life in compliance with the principles of equality and non-discrimination. Monitoring for the implementation of the Strategy is intended to be carried out through an administrative report, which is submitted each year by the Council of Ministers for adoption to the National Assembly. As set out in the Action Plan for the Implementation of the Strategy priority, the Ministry of Culture is the leading institution for the implementation of the operational objective set up conditions for equal access of the Roma community to public cultural life and preservation and development of Roma traditional culture and creativity. In order to achieve this goal, programs in the field of museum work and art are developed and implemented to support talented children, to support creative projects of cultural institutes and organizations in the field of amateur creativity, intangible cultural heritage, in support of the network of libraries and community centers. The implementation of the operational objective of the priority "Media" will create conditions for an equal representation of the Roma community, a change of the negative image of Roma and a reaction to the manifestations of hate language in the media. National Representatives Diana Savateva, Alexander Simov, Toma Bikov, Stanislav Stanilov, Chavdar Velinov expressed their opinion on the Administrative Monitoring Report and Roma integration. After the discussion the National Representatives of the Committee on Culture and Media with 10 votes for the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020) and 6 abstentions proposed to the National Assembly to adopt an Administrative Monitoring Report on May 3, 2018...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Staneva. The report on the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints will present Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u8	♪ I can't believe on the Administrative Monitoring Report 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802-00-23, submitted by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 3 May 2018. The Committee on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints at a regular meeting held on 30 May 2018 discussed and discussed the Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020), No 802 -23, submitted by the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria on 3 May 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers: Rositsa Ivanova Secretary, Daniela Nikolova State Expert, and Nikola Petkov Senior Expert. The administrative monitoring report was presented by Ms. Rositsa Ivanova Secretary of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Council of Ministers, and Daniela Nikolova State Expert at the Secretariat. The Administrative Monitoring Report was submitted in accordance with the National Assembly Decision of 1 March 2012 adopting the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration. The report takes into account progress in implementing the Action Plan under the National Strategy for 2017. It is prepared on the basis of information received from both ministries with responsibility for implementing planned measures under the priorities of the Strategy and regional administrations. It is attached to it by the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences "Analysis and expert assessment of the progress of the Republic of Bulgaria on the main priorities for social inclusion of Roma." The reports on the implementation of municipal action plans under the adopted 28 district strategies are also presented for information. During the discussion spoke the MPs Anton Kutev, Nadia Klisurska, Elena Aksieva and Milena Damyanova. The MPs raised specific questions: What money is spent annually on Roma integration? Do we have any real indicators on how integration is going? With regard to the monitoring and control system, is this system in place, is it working, when will it start working? No specific answers were given to the questions raised by the Members of the National Assembly. On the basis of the presented report, the discussion held and following a vote, the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints with 6 Voices.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Colleagues, I'm opening the discussion. You have the floor to speak. Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u10	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When we look at such an important document, we consider it most normal for Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov to be here in the Chamber. That's why I'm asking you to invite him. I understand that he is busy with concrete actions on our Black Sea coast, but I believe that since this is his responsibility, namely "the integration of Roma," it is quite normal to be here and to take part in the debate. My procedure is to invite the Deputy Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u11	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev, we'll let him know. [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u12	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Today we are looking at an Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 for implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration. Before we look at the content of the Report, we need to make it clear that the integration process of minority groups is a process that requires both time and continuous action. Minority integration is a process of socio-economic, political and cultural inclusion of these groups in society. Integration requires a change in the way they are perceived, categorized and represented by the majority. It is a complex process, covers all spheres of life and refers to our entire society. This report summarises information sent by all regional administrations and regional ministries. The report reflects clearly every action of the institutions responsible and the steps taken over the past year. An important point in the report is that soon the implementation of the developed System for Monitoring, Assessment and Control of the Implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020) is forthcoming. The main objective of the system is to support integration policies by creating an effective mechanism for information, monitoring, evaluation and control of the achieved and achieved results of the Strategy. It will allow the generation of accurate references, trends and analyses of integration policy based on the information received from institutions. In the Administrative Monitoring Report, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has noted important points in its actions under the Integration Policy Strategy. There are two directions in which the MLSP takes attitude. The first direction is employment and the second is the rule of law and non-discrimination. The main policies the Ministry is working on are: social protection, social inclusion and promotion of employment, as a key pillar for non-discrimination and equal opportunities and equal treatment of all Bulgarian citizens, regardless of their ethnicity. From the data noted in the priority employment measures to draw conclusions about the state of the labour market and the inclusion of minority groups in it as the most vulnerable in the process of realization, Roma so-called labor mediators who work on the ground in order to help solve the problem of high Roma unemployment. Their activity is to activate registration in the employment bureau and to increase employability among them by including them in various training programmes and employment projects. In line with the employment coverage measure in various forms and activities in 2017, 46 293 persons were included, which is a 133% implementation of the 2017 annual plan, under which it is planned to provide employment to 34 765 persons. The measures and programmes under which they are worked and the results they have achieved are listed. The focus is on projects related to qualification, training and employment, social inclusion and activation of inactive ones. In conclusion, I can say that from the report we can make recommendations for subsequent solutions, expansion of activities and their directions, so that we can ensure the continuation of integration policy. Here it is important to note that we need to work together, because only together can we guarantee an increase in results. A good practice, in my opinion, which needs to be highlighted more and more, is the mediators - both labour and health. The descriptions of their activities in the Report show that they achieve results. A good example is also the mechanism for joint work of institutions on covering and retention in the educational system of children and students at compulsory pre-school and school age. We must not forget that we must focus both on children and on working with their parents. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u13	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u14	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Vasileva, from what you have started your report you say that time and resources are needed in order to be able to move the processes related to Roma integration effectively. How long is it necessary, dear Mrs. Vasileva, when since 2003 we have been writing strategies and national programs, there are decades and so on?! Your next sentence was that a monitoring and control system would soon be implemented. Since 2015, Human Resources Development has been allocated over 1 million. lv. the implementation of this system and no tendering procedure has taken place within those three years. The contract for implementation of the monitoring and control system was concluded only now in March 2018. Let's remember what Valeri Simeonov said about the system last year. He claimed that the system would already work and that we would have real indicators on Roma integration and on the National Strategy. The other thing I would like to address is that if you have read the Report, because it is obviously not read, yet in the introduction of the Report, the first page says: "It has been implemented and a monitoring and control system has been developed. How has it been introduced and developed since the Treaty was concluded before March 2018 and has a 105-day term? The other thing you're talking about is that the people involved in employment are 46,000. If you look at the chart in detail for that 46,000. persons, it is about persons who have been trained in some training courses, and real and effective are ranges of about 10. 11 thousand. faces. What is the employment of these persons, is it temporary or what? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u15	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u16	I cannot understand the two of us attended the Commission together, where they very well explained that the contract for the system was actually announced, but it was appealed, so it did not enter. The procedure itself has been appealed, so it has not been implemented. In a few days, the system will be operational and all information will be entered into it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u17	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. Mr. Gokov gave the first sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It was really good to have the Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic here, because he is the Chairman of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues, but whatever. On 3 May 2018, the Council of Ministers adopted another Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration (2012 - 2020). About the report can be said: very work-related results none. I say this because of the fact that there is no Bulgarian citizen, no matter who he voted for in the elections, which is not of the opinion that the situation with Roma is getting worse every day. The report is based on information received from ministries that have responsibilities in implementing the planned measures under the various priorities of the Strategy, by regional administrations, by the reports of the municipal plans for action on Roma integration for 2017, and in practice, for a consecutive year, is a collection of separate official statements which mechanically carry in the report the actions of the Strategy and present the contribution of all institutions involved to the integration of the Roma community into the Bulgarian society as part of the efforts to implement the same strategy. A positive element of this year's report is that after years of criticism of the lack of analysis and trends this year, a separate report from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences is presented to the report, which examines the period for implementation of the measures of 2016 and 2017. However, the report remains a collection of reports of institutions, offices and activities that have carried out the relevant ministries that have commitments to the integration process. The other characteristic of the report is that the reports on some activities under the Strategy are presented as progress in implementation of the integration. However, not every activity leads to progress. The result of some activities is merely the use of targeted allocations. I'll try to recreate what suggestions of progress are being made. I ask you, the People's Representatives, whether you are from the opposition or from the ruling coalition, whether you are voting for the People's Republic or against the Report, to give an honest answer not to me, but to yourself are these claims of progress or not? The report stands out as important steps taken in terms of detention and return of students to school.. respectively increase the share of Roma children covered in kindergartens and preschool groups. There may be progress, but it is the result of a forceful action at the beginning of the school year, within the framework of a campaign initiated by the Education Ministry for returning students to school. I am talking about the action called "Mechanism for the joint work of institutions on covering and holding in the educational system of children and students in compulsory pre-school and school age."................................. I did not see in the report how many of those returned to school and whether their presence was not temporary and formal, including in the service of delegated budgets. Is it not so that someone is found to analyze the rule that only children who attend school are supported by the rule of the three coalitions of Minister Maslarova which, if strictly applied and not formally, can result in visible results? The report talks about progress in the efforts to study the Bulgarian language by children for whom it is not a mother. According to experts and non-governmental organizations working with Roma, we cannot boast much progress here. The efforts and resources invested so far, hopefully only for now, are not particularly beneficial. We demand that the Ministry of Education and Science review the formula by which children with a mother tongue, which is not Bulgarian, study the official language in school. As progress is also pointed out in the report the motivation of unemployed Roma youth with primary and low education to continue their training in different forms and to start working. I don't know if there are any gullibles in this room or outside of it who believe in this progress?! Most adult Roma living in the major urban ghettos are included in literacy courses or in education or qualification courses, in motivational courses for search and start-up work. "This claim is too controversial, and even more controversial are the results of it. I demand an assessment of the effectiveness of every lev put into this undertaking. The report concludes that the share of registered Roma in the total number of registered Roma in 2017 is around 16% and is said to decrease compared to 2016. Only I do not agree that the factors that have led to the reduction of Roma unemployment are the active intermediary activities of the labor offices supported by the activities of Roma labor mediators, case managers and so on, which actively involve the employment of self-determining Roma in measures and programs for training and employment. With all due respect to the work of these people and understanding the complexity and effectiveness of their work, you should be aware that this is necessary, but is not a sufficient condition for reducing Roma unemployment. Others are the reasons for reducing it, and it takes us all day to analyze it. The real picture is still extremely low participation of representatives of Roma ethnicity in the labour market. In the health field, efforts are taken into account for the fuller scope of Roma population with mandatory immunizations, with the coordinated efforts of personal doctors, health mediators, specialists from regional health inspections and municipal administrations. There's a lot of effort, but there's no results. Does anyone believe that the percentage of Roma population covered by compulsory immunisation has reached at least half of this population before 1989? The Monitoring Report outlines the need to develop complex measures and implement an integrated approach to implement the long-term planning strategy and system training objectives. Notice, the seventh year developed a System for monitoring, evaluation and control of the implementation of the Strategy. Although developed and introduced, according to the report's claims, it does not function. Once again, an agreement would start by collecting the data and then there would be analyses and they would be provided to the executive bodies to be integrated into political decisions and taken into account when developing, updating and implementing strategic and programming documents that relate to Roma integration. I hope so. Hopefully by the end of the 2020 Strategy, we have a functioning monitoring system! According to the conclusions, the main challenges are related to achieving positive attitudes and support for society towards policies for integration of vulnerable groups and disadvantaged groups. It is noted that the participation of all stakeholders, including media and local civil society bodies, is essential to address still existing discriminatory attitudes and manifestations. I couldn't agree more. The issue of Roma and their integration is serious and with the years it is getting worse. Public attitudes are not for the benefit of integration, and hence we need to start from the change in public attitudes and consensus on the way Roma will be integrated, and there is no such consensus. The Bulgarian is extremely tolerant and even with an increase in negativity in recent years it can not be claimed that public opinion falls into extremes, but growing negativity is still a signal that Roma integration is in practice suffering defeat, although the Monitoring Report claims progress. There may be such progress, but only taken out of the context of integration. There's virtually no such thing at all, and that's more than obvious. When we talk about Roma integration, we have to admit that we are in a situation from day to day better in reports, and from year to year we are getting worse in reality. According to a number of sociological studies, more than 60% of the people in Bulgaria share the opinion that Roma cannot integrate, even in efforts by the state. More than half believe that politicians deliberately cause problems between Bulgarians and Roma, because, as they say: In cloudy water, fish are easier to fish. The truth is that this population basically forms poverty and bad life in Bulgaria. An increasing share have the people who give a conditional opinion that Roma should be expelled from Bulgaria. It is very small the share of people who believe that our attitude towards Roma is unfair, but this is against the background of those 65 - 75% - who are of the opposite opinion. After taking into account these public sentiments, after all these strategies, decades of Roma inclusion, plans, reports, monitoring reports and whatnot, after all this money spent, shouldn't we ask ourselves: what is the effect of all this? I do not know how it will sound from this platform, but I will not refrain from asking how to understand the line of Deputy Prime Minister Donchev's wife in a public post on her personal Facebook page: The seams for gypsies are running out, it is time for the stick. Not so much for this she has the right to freely express her thoughts, I am rather impressed by her assessment of Roma integration, which may have been influenced by her husband, a deputy prime minister in this government. She says: "You will not make me think differently, express myself freely and share what I think. You don't touch me. You only make me think that belief in integration is an illusion with which I have lived for many years. " - I mean, Mrs. Doncheva considers Roma integration an illusion. That's frustrating! What should ordinary taxpayers think with whose money and whose account this integration is made? I agree with her. In this way, Roma integration is really an illusion, but I cannot help but ask myself the question: how did Mr. Donchev vote in the Council of Ministers when adopting this monitoring report? I criticise the Monitoring Report, but to be clear, my criticisms are not to experts from the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues. They have expertly prepared this report and have done their job. I have no doubt about that. They have presented a report on what activities the responsible institutions and people have carried out in the implementation of the Strategy to them I have no claims. My criticism is to the policies of the government, which are included in the Strategy. If there is anything else you can criticize the previous... here it is entirely your responsibility because the Strategy was adopted in 2012 by the cabinet Borisov 1 and has already been implemented for the sixth year. A few more words on the report, basically. Zero, I would say, even negative results on Roma integration are a threat to national security. This is a fact that we need to think deeply. Is the quality assurance of the strategy activities on the level? I think he's under all kinds of criticism. Again, this is an undeniable fact. For early births, children give birth to children, which is one of the serious problems of this community, there are literally five rows and no vision of what to do. No vision of the effectiveness of the legal measures and their application for more practical effect than the punishments for living with minors, as well as subsequent births at an early age. There is no vision of education and prevention aimed at countering early and unwanted births. There is no analysis of how the demography of our country affects the lack of integration in the society of such a large minority group. Given the dynamic changes in Bulgaria's demographic picture, I think there should be a serious change in this strategy, although it expires in two years. It sets the wrong priorities, and this is a prerequisite for wrong decisions, and that is why in practice the results we achieve are none. Whether it is unfortunately or fortunately, the Roma community is an integral part of Bulgaria's economic and socio-demographic future and the problems related to it must be solved both in the light of achieving equality and recognition of the past and expected contribution of this community in the development of the country. I think the government in the face of GERB do not understand the seriousness of the problem or, if they understand it, they are unable to solve it. Despite the optimistic report, we must recognise progress is problematic. The state of integration is more than dramatic, even tragic. It is time to stop spending money and clothe the strategy with palliative brands. We need a new integration model that doesn't come from the wrong positions. At the heart of the Strategy should be Roma problems and answer the question: why do they not want to integrate? A comparison that you will not like, but it is a fact before 1989 there was no Strategy for Roma integration, but they were in times more integrated than now. Now we're spending millions, and not only are we not getting results... [[Reply.]] I don't know who's yelling, but come to answer from the stands. To answer whether Roma were more integrated before 1989? We are not achieving results, but we are also moving irrevocably away from the integration of Roma into our society. I will not support the adoption of the Monitoring Report because what good is it to accept something that you are convinced does not reflect the real picture of Roma integration in Bulgarian society? I will not support it because it is clear that Roma integration is failing and there is no answer in the report why. I will not support it because it is part of the empty talking and the empty reading of results on the problem and it is time to come out of this empty talking. We need character and will to implement integration measures, not fear of losing the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u19	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Pawnov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Gokov, it is obvious that you have no information about some things that were before 10 November 1989, because there was no Strategy then, but there was Decree No 147 of the Council of Ministers, which dealt precisely with the Roma. The first duty was to have all Roma children at school. This was followed very closely and there were no problems that exist at the moment. Secondly, all Roma are required to work. You worked at a work desk, and you know that everything was accounted for at the labor desks, wanted people who didn't work and settled in. Then you couldn't say, "I don't have a job, I'll steal a wire." There was indeed a shortage of labour then, there were foreign workers, so the Roma were necessarily at work. The third duty was to do as at the Faculty, then the Sofia Council worked, there was really a Strategy not to concentrate in one place, not to have such ghettos. They were sent to Lyulin, to Mladost, to Drujba. In the Faculty itself, new blocks had to be made, really integrated among Bulgarian families. It was a policy that gave concrete results. I want to tell you that it was very serious work and that's why there were results back then. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u21	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Another line? A hole, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Pawnov, I have no nostalgia for the past. I really don't know these things with that kind of detail. There is no person in this room, despite the shouts from the hall just now, who claims that before 1989 the Roma were not in times more integrated into the Bulgarian society than they are now. It is now a democracy, we have greater opportunities, Europe is helping us in this direction, we are spending millions without any effect in these people's integration. It may have been a decree once, but there were results. We now have a Strategy, which we have been implementing since 2012, before that we had a Decada "Decade of Roma Inclusion" we spent a lot of money. I do not know whether there is an expert in Bulgaria who knows exactly how much money has been spent on this integration and what is the effect of all this spending money? Mr. Pawnov, I wish that there would also be the Deputy Prime Minister, who, I repeat, is the Chairman of the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic, Integration Issues, and to hear what you have said, which everyone in this House will say, and under his leadership, be integrated into this strategy or at least in the plans to achieve it. This Parliament is considering a second Monitoring Report on Roma integration. I would very much like to say today that we are ending this formal reporting of results and that we are going on some new path, and we can't go on like this, because from year to year it is getting worse with Roma integration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u23	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Professor Stanilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Here, colleague Gyokov told some truths, albeit with too many sentences. These truths are short. This report may not be read, may be read. It may be discussed, may not be discussed, may be accepted, may not be accepted. That's not gonna make any sense. The truth is that two thirds of the Gypsies in Bulgaria live, inhabit the surrounding area as social nomads. They inhabit the Bulgarian society as such. A third of them lead a semi-stationary life. It can be said that they are integrated in the defined sense of the word as far as integration was claimed here during socialism. I want to tell you that social nomadism is a socio-genetic principle, and it cannot be eradicated by such measures as we are proposing here, and gypsies cannot be integrated. They will continue to inhabit this society because they form their value system in their families, so it cannot be changed. To change his value system, you have to take him as a baby from his mother and father, send him to live in another environment, and then he can integrate. This has to be understood once and for all. Our problem cannot be called integration, but must be defined in some sense as peaceful co-existence between the Gypsies and the rest of the resident citizens of Bulgaria. Our fellow Turks, our fellow Armenians, our fellow Jews like us live a land-based life, is called by an agricultural-urban type. So we can live in a decent image with the gypsies in a single principle the length of the carrot and the stick must be the same. Svetlanka, I mean, I'm sorry, Tomislav's wife is right. With us, carrots are too long, and sticks are too short to accept this as slang. In other words, in a civilized way, the rights of gypsies in Bulgaria should be strictly respected only against compliance with obligations and responsibilities on their part. Colleagues, the concept of political responsibility, must be eradicated forever by the Bulgarian society, otherwise no integration will be spent huge money, Roma inclusions, all kinds of monitoring reports. There is a secret report by the European Union with which serious scientists find in this report that Gypsies cannot integrate. It's the truth! In our gypsies, you will never integrate them and give them money, whatever you do. It's not their fault! That's what the Creator decided from above, that is, nature, whatever you want to call it, that's what history has decided. They can be integrated in this sense only if they are divided into small nuts throughout society and then you can get something that is also not certain. I propose that the National Assembly consider, proceed to rethink the overall strategy, the principles on which these so-called citizens of Bulgaria are integrated. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u25	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. - What's the line? Two lines. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u26	Dear Mr. Stanilov, I have great respect for you personally. I'm saying this without any courtesy. However, I think that what you have said now, personally, I cannot accept it. I mean, first of all, the socio-genetic principle defined in this way is dangerous. Purely terminologically this can be justified, although I do not believe in a more serious dispute to be able to do so. Personally, I can't argue with that, just because it's not my specialty. The fact that political is dangerous is absolutely undeniable. When it is added to the fight between nomadic and stationary lifestyles, which you think divides these people on a principle basis, which, by the way, is not true because not all Gypsies have nomadic lifestyles, as you call them gypsies, although it is better to call them otherwise. So in itself it is not factually true, not to mention that purely political again is dangerous, not to say harmful. When we finally come to the fact that we respect only the rights against one another, when respect for rights in a democratic European state is questioned against a principle that can be subjective because whether the obligations are fulfilled or not, it is not up to us to decide, but there are bodies that do so. When you and I put these rights in question, it means that we are crossing all boundaries of civilization that have been established since 1944. I'm not saying that you're a man who's prone to fascism because, again, I'm saying that I respect your intellect.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u27	You say, you say.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u28	Such speaking from your mouth can lead to a lot of other minds leading to severe confusion. What you are doing is dangerous and you should not do it for any political benefit. I apologize, you may have an idea, not the political benefit, but some of your beliefs. I'm telling you, this is uncivilized for me. You can't do this! Finally, the thesis that gypsies can't integrate, it terrifies me. These things, two steps further away, lead to concepts that I don't need to explain to you. It's a step from fascism. I'm not saying you're going for fascism. I'm saying that people who believe you will come after you very quickly and easily, and it will be your fault. Please extend the group's time. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u29	Professor Mihailov, you have a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I, like my colleague Kutev, will start with great respect for you, Professor Stanilov. As a professional, I would like to tell you that the concept of social genetics and the understanding of individual communities and their belonging to nomadic behavior is extremely historical and philosophically incorrect. If we go back many years and centuries, during the time of the great migration of nations, most of the people who have moved from one continent to another were called nomads, and now they are the foundation of modern civilization. The second thing, such ideas in 1962 advocated in the most developed state now in the world.... the United States of America. This is deeply incorrect and I think that Mr. Kutev was very right, not based on your intelligence and your valuable ideas to preach such ideas in the Bulgarian Parliament, because they can really lead to very severe distortions in public thinking. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u31	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Third line? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Stanilov, Dear Members of Parliament! Mr. Stanilov, I listened carefully. Agreeing with the two colleagues who spoke before me, my line to you is that you probably do not approve of the report and do not like what is the result of this Roma integration. This year, again and with your votes, we will adopt this report. Last year I was very impressed that during this report Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov was here and took an active part in the debate. I felt in it a desire to solve integration problems. Today it is gone, and today you will again support this report, and next year, when we come here in this National Assembly, and when we report on the 2017 Monitoring Report, we will talk again about the same things, and we will still wait for the Strategy to end and we will agree. For how long, Professor Stanilov? There's an end to everything! The Bulgarian taxpayer is tired of spending the money in this direction without any result. Something has to be done! I think that you will now vote everyone, including us, with respect to the work of those people who stand back and have made this report, which, of course, reflects the actual picture, but because of some views of those in charge, we are talking about progress, and there is none. I don't know how long we're gonna be doing this thing!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u33	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Here you go, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u34	There's a whole science to nomadicism. Those steppe nomads from the great migration of the nations had nothing to do with social nomadism. Social genetics is studied as humanitarian discipline in a bunch of universities. Please, when you go out on the stand, a little bit of insight into what I'm saying. These accusations that I am walking towards fascism, that I am leaning towards fascism, that they are dangerous, very dangerous, and so on, the truth is dangerous. She's always dangerous! The truth should be spoken, not tucked under the table like Andresko and waiting for someone to save us. That can't happen! I didn't say we should beat the gypsies or take force measures. I just want to say that everyone has to comply with the laws in Bulgaria "All citizens of Bulgaria must comply with these laws! None of you came out here to say what would happen to so-called political correctness. Are you, as social liberals, her supporters? Because social correctness is one of the slogans of left-wing parties in Europe! Social correctness is one of the guiding principles of today's Europe! And social correctness leads to what we see here! About integration. When you fear my words and think of me as a fascist, because in the context you respect me very much, but still: You are walking in a dangerous path, you are hardly a fascist! The truth must be spoken no matter what it is. What I'm saying is true. It is true because for 30 years we integrate Roma into this system and, as you can see, there is no result or almost none! I've worked with gypsies, I've had a gypsy doctorate, my graduate was one of the most capable! And I've been sending her to Budapest for a year! But these are units, and they...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u35	What year?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u36	I think 1998. I also want to tell you that they are very talented people! The environment there is such that they can't get to the surface. That's life, that's what history has decided. Don't you understand that?! Instead of calling me a fascist, shame yourself and start thinking real! Not to fly in the air and keep civilized speeches here. Civilization also has its own weaknesses, there are sector places where...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u37	You're in charge, aren't you? Fix it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u38	You're forcing me to talk, and I'm going to slang, and I'm going to insult you. I beg you very much not to shake hands with me. Who invented the Decade of Roma Inclusion and what did you perform from it? [[Applause from GERB.]] You didn't do anything! [[Relations from the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u39	Mr. Stoynev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u40	Remember what I said at the Fortyth National Assembly? Were you here to hear what I said? There's how we voted, there's all the paperwork! I have no intention of dealing with you! Leave the hypocrisy, leave it, or I'll start fighting!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u41	Professor Stanilov, your time is running out!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u42	I apologize.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u43	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u44	You can't argue with social nomads!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u45	Thank you. Mr. Rashidov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u46	Procedure in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u47	Go ahead, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, yesterday I made the first procedure for the Deputy Prime Minister to be invited. Now Mr. Stoinev made a second time. I've done it three times. Look, the Deputy Prime Minister's presence here is not a simple nagging. Why isn't he here? We have just seen a representative of his party of the United Patriarchs who, with absolute conviction, claimed that there was no point in Roma integration. This party claims that there is no point in Roma integration, and the deputy prime minister who is currently absent is President of the Integration Council! This is insanity of high order! [[Reply by National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] This is where someone calls: To put a person and a party that claims that there is no point in Roma integration, it is to manage Roma integration in Bulgaria. I'm sorry, I don't know the name of the person who called. Just because you don't understand, it's normal that you're calling is not! You cannot put a person who confesses or a party who confesses to fascism-bound positions in charge of minority integration! That's debilitating. Excuse me. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u49	Mr. Kutev, I'm gonna have to ask you to stick to the procedure. Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! As this report has passed through the Committee on Culture and Media, the President will take note. Have you guys been in this world for three years? Didn't socialism go through with it? I would like to say a few good words here about Alexander Pawnov's statement. Since they didn't trust me, I was in Construction Forces. We were Roma and Turks there, and we basically built socialism in Bulgaria. All the panel blocks you live in, we built them. [[Reply from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] There were schools that seemed to be doing more work than you. There were construction schools, building footage being prepared! Later in life they worked as builders, masons, masqueraders, people with occupations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u51	Well, do it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u52	When the Socialists came, didn't you manage Bulgaria, colleagues, that you checked in the last few years? Where were you for the first 10 years of your reign? [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Why did you ruin Construction Forces, plus prepare footage? Tell me: for what should you hire one person from the Roma minority? They're not bad people, but they don't have jobs. Why were you putting money into programs that created the gypsy barons? It's not four years old. You created them! [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Who was in charge, colleagues, the COCM? How many people did you educate on these programs with millions of dollars? None. Not one! So don't yell at me. It's the truth. It's as if you came to this world yesterday and gave it away. In 2012, colleagues, for the first time GERB introduced the National Strategy in the Bulgarian Parliament for the first time, listen to it! [[Applause from GERB. The line from the MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] National strategy! Now I will remind you that it was not you who bought votes and forgave the electricity not to the Bulgarians, not to the Turks exactly to the minority? What am I supposed to say? Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u53	All the Gypsy sections are yours!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u54	Mr. Stoinev, you will have the right to a line. Please don't call from the spot.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u55	I used to go to world museums, not Stolipinovo to buy votes, colleague. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Don't yell at me, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, you're younger than me. [[Applause from GERB.]] When you bought votes, you didn't pay attention to minority integration! Now all of a sudden you're on fire that there's finally one strategy that really needs to sit down and integrate. Integration means preparing staff with professions needed for life. There are none. The money's stolen. [[a line from MP Philip Popov]] People have lost their education. Comrade Zhivkov built nice blocks. You remember what happened. Yeah, it's a community that lives like this, but it doesn't mean it has to be an uneducated community. For the first time there is a strategy not to spend money on a muck, but to build a scheme in the way that people start to educate themselves and have their professions. You insulted Stanilov when you said he was a fascist. What's so fascist that he says equal before the law? By forgiving the electricity, were they equal to the Bulgarians who work, buy homes, build land, buy houses, pay the electricity, and you forgave the electricity of these people?! Is this the law you keep? Were we equals there, or did you need votes for parliament? Don't blame the man. He said one good thing "Equal before the Bulgarian laws." Put the laws to work, let's all be equal in front of them, and then they'll integrate. Otherwise we'll be watching another 30 years of the movie Mother India. [[Radio.]] One day, God forbid I'm alive, to see the gypsies integrate the Bulgarians. Please take this problem seriously. People are good, talented, but they need a clear strategy in order to be part of the Bulgarian people, and they deserve it. Thanks. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u56	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u57	Line!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u58	The line is Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u59	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Rashidov, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Mr. Rashidov, you said about the National Strategy, which was adopted in March or April 2012. I can say that for the first time a National Strategy was adopted in the Bulgarian Parliament. Colleagues, until 2012, when, as Vejdi Rashidov said, you ruled all of you, before that you never wanted this debate to be held in the Bulgarian Parliament. What we did in 2012 and what is currently being put forward as an effort by the government is, apart from adopting a report for the previous year, about everything that has been done, to be able to participate in this debate all the parliamentary groups represented by both the opposition and the leaders. Before, Mr. Rashidov, what was it? The Ministry or the Council of Ministers with a protocol decision.... what were the results and move on. At the moment, what has been done is for the first time to have a debate and this is a fourth report, which is seen in the Bulgarian Parliament after the adopted National Strategy (2012 I believe, my fellow Members on the left, that this is due to the majority at the time and to the merit of the current government, that it is fulfilling its commitment to this national strategy. Yes, there are problems, problems cannot be solved immediately, but the important thing is that we already have a debate that is being held in the Bulgarian Parliament, and the appropriate measures are being implemented by the government of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u60	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. You wanted a line, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u61	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Rashidov, since we are talking about this strategy, we are 2018 to remember, we are not 2012. I want you to tell me what the results are, Mr. Rashidov, from this strategy! Because nowadays the Roma not only cannot speak Bulgarian but cannot read and write. I want you to tell me the results because you're familiar! Secondly, Mr. Rashidov, all Gypsy sections in the country are won by GERB! [[Speaking from GERB: "Eee! "]] Come to Stara Zagora to see that in the district all sections are won by the political party GERB! I'm not saying you're buying votes, not at all! I am simply saying that Roma across Bulgaria read your strategy, are intoxicated by your priorities and vote for you! But since you just explained that BSP is buying votes, or you're going out on the stand right now, you go to the D.A.'s office and you signal a specific section, or you're just a slanderer! Thank you. [[Noise and lines from GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u62	Thank you. Mrs. Klisurska's line. You'll have your say, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Stoynev, just to inform you that Deputy Prime Minister Simeonov is not in Sofia, he had to travel to Northern Bulgaria, but here we have representatives who can answer your question competently.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Rashidov, the point we are currently looking at is the Monitoring Report for 2017. In all the speech you have made, you have not affected at all what the report says. In the entire report, all 77 pages of it says how to give money to a person. You were saying that the system is different right now, no, it's not different. That is why we should not now accept the Report as it is, because this system, as it currently works, needs a restart, needs a radical change. If we turn back time that nothing has been done, Mr. Tsvetanov, I'm not giving you a line, you're just putting things back in time again because we're talking about 2017 right now. You're turning back time! See in the Report, if you have read it, 2003 - 2007 has reported results! [[Shows.]] But you haven't read it! [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] There are reported results for the homes that were made for Roma integration in the period 2003 - 2007, in our report, but obviously you have not read it. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u64	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u65	First, to calm down the prosecutor's office I will bring you footage, I was an artist in Plovdiv, I did so many exhibitions when Stolipinovo broadcast some good footage on TV. I'll give it to you. And I can go to the D.A. whenever you want. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] Colleague, if you calm down a little bit, you're younger, it'll be better for the gym. [[Applause from GERB.]] You're gonna come and get me from here, okay? [[Laughter at GERB.]] It looks like the theater anyway, so we're gonna have applause. Mr. Tsvetanov, you failed to say exactly from 2012 until now 22 thousand. Roma have been inserted into the educational system. [[Applause from GERB.]] It's still a step and... [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] And to you, a colleague you often call out, apparently styling is like Dolce and Gabbana's, they're yelling at Palma de Mallorca, I heard them one day. My dear friend, I do not like that you spend all day trying to divide the Bulgarian society, the Bulgarian citizens not to civil society, but to ethnic groups. My grandfathers did not know very well Bulgarian, but they were not worse citizens of Bulgaria. Neither the Roma nor the Turks nor the Bulgarians should be bad citizens. I believe that in Bulgarian society should be equal before the law, as Professor Stanilov said here, and the law to work. When the law is the same for all, we will be an equal society. The debate on ethnic principle is too strong. Yeah, we've been mean to them. And, yeah, we were really buying votes. What's the big deal? Take me to the D.A.'s office. Don't you know the technology you make in elections? I don't make them, you're great masters of this thing. Party functionaries, I'm not a party member of any party yet, and I've never been, and you didn't even accept me to the BCP back in the day, Sasho Paunov to think! Even at Homeland Security you couldn't get to me, something didn't happen. Dear friends, stop talking about the Bulgarian society as ethnic and as citizens of this society. Otherwise, it's very offensive. It doesn't matter if it's Roma, Turkish, Jewish, Armenian. We're all good, we're all bad. The last thing I want to say. All societies in the world are like a piece of plasticine. If it's in the hands of a good master, it's something well-made by a good master. You have been bad masters for many years and have formed and modeled a people that we are wondering today how to fix. I think that reason should join this strategy....not give money to a muck....because you say money, money, money, money....but you gave money too! And you created gypsy barons! And from GERB's first government there is not a single gypsy baron! To stop this story and start really implementing this programme, which is for the integration of all Bulgarian citizens into the Bulgarian community, as people working with work, with work, so that the economy can move. Otherwise, we'll talk about each other and each other without respect for each other. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u66	Mr. Kutev! [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria "Personal explanation"]] Personal explanation? I didn't hear you be... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear friend Brows! Not bad party functionaries, depending on the party they run. You know that I am the First Secretary of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Bulgaria. You and I respect each other, even though you're unparty, but I see you as a future member of the Compartment because you're a decent and honest man. I wanted to tell you something else. Because he mentioned GUSW, the so-called Construction Forces, which have created many things in Bulgaria, but during the time of so-called democracy, they were defeated. And right now, they're still being defeated because they're selling out the assets they have. I have made a personal proposal by Karakachanov, even when he was Deputy Chairman of the 43rd National Assembly and now as Minister of Defence, that the GWW still has opportunities because there are assets around 98 million that can be saved by the Regional Ministry, which sells them, and will go bankrupt. If they pass, as I propose, to the Ministry of Defence, there is an opportunity, there are specialists to start the so-called Educational Forces, not only to receive education, but to learn discipline, because there is really no way to hire Roma when they have no specialty. You can't hire them when they don't have an education. They can't read or write. That's what isolated them. First it's education and then you give him a specialty. When they came out of the Construction Forces, they had jobs of greasers, composites and so on. This needs to be restored because this is one of the elements of this integration that we are talking about in practice. Indeed, Karakachanov and I have had a dialogue here and we will continue to work with him. Some do not want to recover, but this is part of the path to integration. Real integration! You're a man of influence, Eyebrows. You can also help with Karakachanov to restore these Construction Forces to the effect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u68	Thank you, Mr. Pawnov. Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I abstained from the report on the simple reason that, first of all, I have no feeling that Roma integration in Bulgaria is somehow progressing. To be honest, I see them with the same carts on the road with the difference that we don't let them into the center of Sofia, which is probably the right thing to do. Do I know?! However, to say that I feel integrated Roma in our society, I firmly believe that is not the case. More importantly, though, is this report somehow showing Roma integration? I don't think you can see the report. The report has one quality I like. He has stepped on the Roma integration plan and has tried point by point this plan to explain in some way what was done on it, which is a rational approach. Another point is that it is implemented in the only way that I think it is possible for this council, by collecting all possible programmes of national and European money in which money has been spent and placed in the pen to which they are somehow relevant. And that's how it turns out that we've done everything we've planned. However, the truth is that this for me, first of all, does not mean that a policy has been carried out, but on the contrary, that a long report has been written. I do not blame the Council for this, because it is clear to me that with the administrative capacity enshrined in this Council, with the opportunities given to it, it has neither, in practice, the obligation nor the opportunity to do more. So the question here is do we have real integration? The answer is no. Are we reading any integration? The answer for me is that we are trying to take it into account, but even this is not what we are doing as people, which is why I was actually against, and most likely, and therefore the report was not adopted in our committee. What's my problem with the report? Once again, I have no comment on the people of the Council because they are doing what they are given by law and what is in their capabilities. The fact is, however, that the whole system of Roma integration is confused and it is currently not working. It works on a project principle, and the problems with Roma are complex. The project principles solve specific tasks, but they cannot solve major policies. Here it is that policies should be made at the same time in the Ministry of Interior, in the Regional Ministry, in the Ministry of Labour, in the Ministry of Education. These policies must be coordinated. In other words, there must be an authority in the country that coordinates these policies in order to lead to some form of integration. This council, which has been set up, cannot coordinate them because it is not designed to coordinate them. And the only thing he can do is these reports that he's quick to blurt out. Here's my problem with this report. I am voting against the statement for the simple reason that it is a blur of non-existent policy. It represents some form of public apology for that we have done nothing without saying even one. Again, I am strongly opposed to this report, not because I am opposed to the people who have done it again, once again I say: they are doing what is given to them by law. They don't have the ability to do it anymore, and neither does anyone want them to do it. And the result of this is that in our country there is no real policy for Roma integration and this is shown by the situation of Roma communities. Do we need Roma integration because colleagues from the Patriots are questioning it? Of course we do. Of course there are hundreds of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who are dramatically unintegrated. And I don't agree at all with the thesis that they didn't belong to integration. On the contrary, they are subject to integration! Our society is only interested in these hundreds of thousands of citizens being integrated because otherwise they are a burden for both the social system and law enforcement, and so on. It's a public matter! My problem with today's report is that today we are not solving this issue. We're not moving the wagon forward. All we do is somehow justify the state's inaction. This is the path on which the problem will deepen and we will all become worse as a society. That's the last word I'm saying. The huge problem of this whole thing is that Bulgaria has accumulated many social conflicts, but the likelihood that these social conflicts will break out as such is very small for many reasons. However, there is a huge likelihood that they will erupt as ethnic conflicts. Unsolving these problems with the Roma, we can get to something that will prove to be a key and terrifying stone of Bulgarian history. This is our responsibility in the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. A line? Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I listened very carefully to Mr. Kutev's emotional statements. Three months ago I was in Silistra and there I talked to voters about Roma problems. I would like to ask during these years, when Mr. Kutev was a MP, to say specifically what he did in his own electoral district, in the place where he was born, about Roma integration?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u72	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Another line? You have the floor for the back, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u73	Mr. Petrov, it doesn't matter to me that I was born on the yellow pavement, not in Silistra. And as for what I've done for Roma integration in Silistra, where you stepped up once three months ago, I've spent more than five years in this city, and everyone who's been in this town knows that I've been there every Saturday and Sunday literally, usually from Friday to Tuesday. I know what my constituents, our constituents say, because they are the voters and the BSP, not mine personally, regarding my residence there. I want to tell you that every time I return to Silistra right now, I meet friends. I must have enemies, too. I don't know if they're afraid to call or if they just don't want to, which they have a right to. However, I know how many friends I have both among the Turks and among the Roma and among the Bulgarians and among the Kalarish and among all the others there, because there are other communities. I have extremely many friends and I am happy to communicate with them. I do not know which electoral district you are from, I wish you, when you run out of two mandates, if you spend so much somewhere, to have the same attitude to yourself as I have in Silistra. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u74	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Here you go, Mrs. Peeva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I take the floor for speaking because the subject of education has been affected several times, and when it comes to Roma integration, education is an integral part of it. I will not bring you back far in time before and after 10 November, I will return you more to the facts than the analysis of the Strategy for Roma Integration. First of all, I will draw attention to the fact that uneducated man is the greatest threat to the destruction of humanity, not nuclear holocaust, impact with meteorite or climate problems. The growth of the uneducated population is the most visible and imminent threat to human civilization and is the most likely to destroy it. In the era in which we live, a very large part of mankind has overcome food problems. The most lethal epidemiological diseases are eliminated or limited. This allows the physical survival of families even if they are uneducated, or more precisely, without having to be educated. The uneducated have a much higher rate of reproduction. They give birth early because they leave the education system early. They give birth to a lot of kids because they're labor-free. Evidence of the low-education relationship is the fact that countries with the highest population growth are generally those with the lowest human development index. According to UN data, the population of countries with low development index will increase by 42.6% over the period 2014 - 2030, while in those with a high index of only 6%. Of all indicators in the UN Human Development Index, the demographic growth rate of the population is in the strongest negative correlation with the indicators of literacy and participation in the education system......................................................................................... Or, in other words, the less children teach, the more the uneducated population increases. That is why the operational objective of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration is a top priority of the Ministry of Education and Science, namely the scope and detention of children and students in kindergartens and schools. One of the most serious challenges facing the educational system is the large number of children who do not attend kindergarten or school and the large number of students who leave early. Failure to attend compulsory pre-school education of Roma children increases the risk of difficulties in school. These difficulties usually occur as early as the primary stage of education and may result in dropping out and early leaving school. As a result of the scope mechanism applied in autumn 2017, 22 thousand children and students were returned to the educational system as of 2018 as of 20 April. This is the population a little more than that of Velingrad, and it is not an accidental, forceful action, Mr. Gokov, as you mentioned. And now, by decree of the Council of Ministers, this is a consistent policy that will be implemented mandatory at the beginning of each school year. Premature leaving the students reduces their opportunities for realization in life and in the labour market and leads to non-refundability of the funds for education. In people who have basic or lower education, the risks of social exclusion increase. The measure to save early school dropout of Roma students has a high effect and the introduction of training through work or so-called dual training. In addition to acquiring a profession consistent with the labour market, there is also a reduction in dropouts, a decrease in delays and absences of students. Among the measures and activities in the scope and detention of children and students in the system of preschool and school education is the grant of scholarships to students after primary education, i.e. seventh grade. Monthly scholarships are provided not only for educational results achieved, but also for supporting access to education and preventing dropping out. The Center for Integration and Training of Children and Students from Ethnic Minorities, in cooperation with the Roma Education Fund, realized the project "Support of Roma Students" for successful completion of secondary education. The project covers the two last academic years and aims to improve the educational results of Roma students, to assist in the successful completion of secondary education, to reduce absences and to motivate them to continue their education in higher schools. The project contains two main components. The first is to grant scholarships to Roma students. As some Members have argued that there are no results, I will quote the results, colleagues. For 2017 500 Roma students took a higher course, 600 Roma students were detained in secondary school, 85 Roma students successfully graduated from secondary school, 80 Roma students applied to higher schools, 251 Roma students received scholarships with improved educational results only on this project. The Ministry of Education and Science and the Agency for Social Assistance have specified a procedure for providing family assistance to children in kindergarten or school on a proposal from the Director of kindergarten or school. The same line is regulated for aid in kind for full or partial payment for the participation of the child in school events, excursions, visits to historical museums, cultural and other sites, camps and others. This puts an end to the possibility of dishonest parents taking advantage of the funds provided for the training, education, integration of their children. In 2017 202 young people were attracted from a Roma ethnic community with secondary or higher education as volunteers for working with children at risk of dropping out or dropping out of school. A total of 5128 students with no completed education have been included under the Project "Study of adult education 1" but you are not listening, colleagues who are unemployed and illiterate, including Roma. The effects of the training are significant both for the person himself, who regardless of his age and formal education received has the opportunity to fully realize his potential and for employers who are users of this resource. The inclusion of parents of Roma children and students into the educational process and the strengthening of their participation in school life is also of great importance for Roma integration. To achieve this is worked by participating parents of Roma children and students in parent clubs, boards and activities related to working with school boards and parental associations, to overcome negative stereotypes and discriminatory attitudes towards different ethnic groups through activities to raise awareness of the parents of children and students of Roma origin about the benefits of education, through the formation of intercultural competence, also training of directors, teachers and other pedagogical specialists for working in a multicultural environment. In 2017, 232 pedagogical specialists for working in an intercultural environment were included in project activities. This enhances the capacity of pedagogical specialists and educational mediators in schools and kindergartens to overcome the dropout of children from minorities. Forms are organized for individual mentoring, helping individual children and students to overcome learning difficulties. This answers the question: how is training of Roma children affected to overcome the problems of learning the Bulgarian language? To overcome segregation and secondary segregation of Roma children are included activities related to support of students from ethnic minorities, including Roma. These activities are for continuing high school education, with information, motivation and preparation of students from ethnic minorities in high school to continue education in higher schools. The activities in additional Bulgarian language training include 1058 students - here are again results and facts for which the Bulgarian language is not native. The mastery of the Bulgarian language by these children actually contributes to the higher motivation of school training, a prerequisite for successful completion of a class, stage and degree, as well as for improving their educational results. For the last two academic years, the total number of students included in additional training in Bulgarian language and literature to overcome learning difficulties is 105 573. Introduction of additional classes in Bulgarian language of full-time education, compulsory pre-school education, non-determining classes on the basis of ethnicity. The establishment of legal guarantees for the process of social inclusion and acceptance of Roma children and students in a multicultural environment in kindergartens, schools and society. And in completion, colleagues, I will quote my esteemed Stefan Tsanev, who in an interview says: "The next world war on our planet will not be the war between nations, between religions, between classes and races. The last war on planet Earth will be the war of the illiterate against the educated. The educated still have tools to overcome this. The educated manage the institutions, so let us follow the policy of limiting illiteracy, taking education as a priority and giving equal opportunities for inclusion in society. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u76	Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. The line, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u77	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Peeva, from all the data you have submitted and shown, it is evident that it is working to some extent to integrate the gypsies into the Bulgarian society. But all of us as politicians, no matter what party we're from, we're missing the point. The integration of all such groups, which refuse to participate in the life of the Bulgarian society in any way, starts with the first seven years, because by missing the first seven years of these children, in fact, from then on problems arise. And in order not to miss the first seven years of all these children who, for one reason or another, cannot visit nurseries and kindergartens, are to blame for our politicians. In order to help the Gypsy community to integrate itself, we need to provide their children with nurseries and kindergartens, free of charge for all Bulgarian citizens, because in this way we will also help Bulgarian educated families who do not receive children's supplements, to save some wrong money that they pay for kindergarten fees and nurseries. Similarly, children of people who do not have the opportunity to pay the fees for kindergartens and nurseries, like one part of the Gypsy community, will be able to visit them and learn Bulgarian. Then it'll be a lot easier when they get into first grade, not just in first grade to look for them where they are to get them into school. What's the effect of a kid in first grade finding him and putting him in school when he's never been to a nursery or kindergarten? Where to learn Bulgarian language? We from the United Patriarchs have proposed this in the Management Program. We've also had the appropriate conversations with the Minister of Education. We want to make sure that nurseries and kindergartens in Bulgaria are exempt from fees so that Bulgarian educated families who do not receive aid from the state and all those communities who are unable to pay the fees can be supported. Then we can talk about the Bulgarian society and the Bulgarian state making real measures for integration and for support of both Bulgarian families and those families who have no income to pay fees for kindergartens and nurseries. I would just remind you that from the first to the twelfth grade no parent pays a fee, but why should parents pay fees for kindergartens and cribs then? When we talk about integration, I apologize for taking the time to talk about the first seven years, because we know that the first seven years are important for all of us, how a child has formed his character, education and language. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u78	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u79	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs Peeva, I would like to thank you for the speech that brought the debate back to the facts. So far we have listened to many emotional statements overexposed these, interpretations based on the most general logic on the subject, but no one based on the data with the facts as they are. I certainly support your view of the importance and role of education and educational efforts in achieving success in relation to the tasks and measures provided for in the Strategy. I took a line to make the following recommendation. When it comes to political debate and debate in such a format, you wonderfully set out the facts of the 2017 Report, take the facts and data for 2013, so that we can compare, firstly, was there a report on implementation of the 2013 Strategy, what were the results then, what were the projects then, what was the success of the efforts, so that, as your colleagues, we can take into account, see what was progress? I remember clearly the first strategy of 2012, and I remember the meetings of the Council of Ministers, and I remember the famous prejudice of five district governors that we were, about whether this mechanism would work, whether it makes sense. From your speech, I was convinced that the efforts are worth working harder and harder in this direction. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u80	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mrs. Peeva, would you like to use the backrest? No. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me, but this is provided in the Rules for different representatives from different groups to speak, not one after the other. You have the floor, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u81	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let's get the debate back to the facts room. If we start with the introduction of the Report, we will see that such a monitoring and control system has been developed. I already said that. The next page of the introduction says, however, that the so developed monitoring and control system will only work at the end of 2019. See what progress we are talking about! Let's go to the Education Section and read what's going on. Things are in the future again. We read the Ordinance on organization of activities in school education with the idea that there will be no accumulation of more students from ethnic minorities and groups in one place. How will we achieve this effect if there is no other school, there is no other class in the respective territorial area? We are reading the Ordinance on Inclusive Education - these are all things from the Report, which was adopted, edited and adopted again on 20 October 2017, which is again in the future time. During the holidays, the children would be covered for literacy. The results that you pointed out a little while ago, yes, there are indeed a lot of digital results, but they do not show how many are not covered for literacy. That's more important and more important. Because when we talked about the coordination mechanism for covering students, then we found that 206 thousand Bulgarian students never started school. What are the real facts? Seventeen thousand students were covered in the educational system at the beginning of this school year and in the middle of the school year half dropped out again. A very large percentage of these students are of another ethnic origin. I do not want to talk about functional illiterateness and what is the percentage of other countries in the European Union. We're at the bottom! What results are we talking about?! The results would be real, clear, effective when we see the plus and minus across the street, not just the plus. I'm going to say a few things on the plans that the municipalities make, which are generalized. In October last year, a non-governmental organisation analyzed these plans and reports made by municipalities for spending the public funds given to the integration of the Roma population. If someone has bothered to read the Report and the results of this project, they will see that the problems in municipalities are very big and they are related, on the one hand, to funding and budgeting. What small municipality can afford a budget in which to spend funds for integration? Not to mention infrastructure. Which mayor of the municipality can afford and make it real, implement infrastructure in its territory in compact Roma neighborhoods? It's extremely rare. Such things we have seen, examples are given in the Report in a municipality. A plumbing was built, as I recall from the Report. It's on operational programs. We have seen that the report states that 80 million. lv. They are expected to be invested in social and other infrastructure. Yeah, eventually, sometime in the future time! In the same report, we see that social housing will be built around 1140 in number, somewhere around 2023. Really, when we talk about a report, about effective things that will happen, let us now talk about what happened last year, but also about what did not happen. There are a lot of problems. It is evident from the report that has been presented to us now and last year that the system cycles and is not effective. People in Roma neighborhoods do not feel the real integration. In this regard, we need to review the system as it exists now and make a radically different view of Roma integration. It was also a coincidence that last week, when it was the topic of Roma integration in relation to our European Presidency, 51 Roma organizations did not participate in this meeting because they said that as is currently the current system, it does not work. It does not involve Roma representatives in order to be able to express the policy as necessary for the Roma population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You often use the word "integration." Do you understand what that means? It's like a paradigm asking, "Do you know what this is? No, but that's very nice of you to say. Guys, what are you scratching your tongue for? Integration is to educate people, to give them a profession that they can practice. There's no way to integrate people without a profession, no matter what ethnicity they are. A guy who sucks and has no skills, tell me, how do you integrate him?! Yes, and a little education is integration, and also the laws of the state to respect them, to be equal. It's integration, all of us being one community. Please, first of all, make a definition of the word "integration" and stop twisting it here like a handshake. [[Noise and lines. A line from the MP Milko Nedyalkov.]] Excuse me? Tell me, setup, you got a problem? [[Reply by MP Milko Nedyalkov.]] Okay. You're a man of manners. Don't shout so loudly. Come say it here, like I say.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u84	Don't engage in dialogue, Mr. Rashidov. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u85	It says... We'll correct the word. We'll say labor, labor. Look, colleagues, in the barracks I built the square in Pravets, the sports hall and the motel tent. All the buildings are down, they're all that's left. Integration was that I knew how to pour concrete. I learned, I integrated into labor. Yeah, that's what happened. After that, the evenings punished me in a PPS to write letters, posters: "Learning and labor, labor and teaching. " That's the first time I've had the philosopher wake up. I learned that teaching is a kind of work and it turns out that I am writing "Truth and labor, labor, and labor. " Work is integration, colleagues! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u86	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Mrs. Vassileva, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u87	Dear Mrs. Klisurska, since you clearly need to be repeated several times, I will read you the transcript of the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. The National Strategy Monitoring and Control System is a precondition under the Partnership Agreement between Bulgaria and the European Commission. This means that if the system is not made on three operational programs that provide money for the Roma, money stops. Since this is an order that exceeds the limit of what could go below the threshold of a public procurement contract, such an order has been prepared. We're all reading the press, I'm sure you read the statement of Deputy Prime Minister Donchev that a company that, for example, makes razor blades appeals to such orders. This meant exactly the order for this system and it was constantly appealed for two years. The contract was signed on 8 May this year and the project ended these days. So once the data system is filled, then it will only be able to function. That can't happen in two hours, you know?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Vassileva. A line? Here's a third line. You have the floor, Mr. Kasabov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u89	Dear colleagues, I will be brief. A lot of yelling, a lot of noise, a lot of screaming and mostly from the BSP. As they say, it's a good job, but it's gypsy. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] So a little bit to reduce the jugular, because, we see, the chalga has been working since we've been in this term. But I say again, we're not gypsies, and you're acting like gypsies. Stop with the gypsy stories. Thank you. [[Single applause. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u90	Thank you, Mr. Kasabov. Mrs. Klisurska, come on in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Rashidov, Kasabov, Vasileva, you obviously did not understand what we are looking at right now because one commented that we should replace the word "integration" with "work." See the item on the agenda: Administrative monitoring report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration. I can't figure out what we're going to replace right now, and how are we going to replace it?! The way the subject is formulated, this is how we discuss it. With regard to the monitoring system. Mrs. Vasileva, I know perfectly well what happened during the Commission, you don't have to repeat it to me. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] See and read your report because in it you recorded on the front page the introduction that such a system was developed. Unfortunately, it has not been developed and this is a fact. Fix your words. We see that the contract was concluded in May 2018 and no such system has actually been developed. We're looking at our report, not the transcripts from the committees. Mr. Kasabov, I could not understand you, but we are currently looking at a monitoring report and the fact that you are making some conclusions from certain statements is only your problem and it is only in your head. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Petrov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, our hall is once again becoming an arena of fierce and, in some cases, unwarranted attacks. In this regard, I'd like to bring in some fresh spirit. First, I will address Mr. Kutev, then prepare Mrs. Zhekova. [[Laughter]] I want to fully support Professor Stanilov's opinion. Unfortunately, Mr. Rashidov did not pay serious attention to what he said and also to Mr. Rashidov. These are people who are respected who know very well the problems in the areas where they have been chosen and where they have been. Mr. Stanilov paid very serious attention to the fact that whatever reports we do as a society, if we do not take measures to eliminate these ghettos, we cannot achieve any integration. We really need to take this very seriously. I want to tell you that, by my simple calculations, to make some naked little houses of 20 grand each. lv. One of them, in order to eliminate landfills, amounts to 5 billion. lv. I asked Mr. Kutev a question and he didn't answer it. He came out to tell us how respected he was among Gypsies and Bulgarians in Silistra. In Silistra, for his information, I did not go to this area by accident, but for the third time for a year, and there I saw that there were serious problems. I mean, it's not just fairy tales, it's not just slogans, Mr. Kutev! You have to work in person, you personally, and say: I did this and this. And since you're asking what election district I'm from, I'm from the Sliven Election District. In this constituency, in Sliven itself, 30% of the population some say 35% are gypsies. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria "What have you done?"]] Of course, I'll tell you what we did. I'm not like you to run away with such common tales that gypsies loved me and loved those and those. I had a meeting with principals of schools where there are gypsies to discuss how to solve the problem and people pointed out clearly and precisely. If you want to know, please join the Group, I will give you my experience of what I have received from these conversations with the principals of schools. Second, I had a meeting with the mayor of Sliven, dedicated specifically to the Gypsies. With my suggestion that the best of the two schools with 100% Gypsies in Sliven, big schools, the best children of each class each year two, three to be sent out because there are winners, there are children who learn very well, gradually in Bulgarian schools after the corresponding delivery where there are 100% Bulgarian children. They are all Bulgarians, but in some there are 100% Gypsies. I have personally advocated for a gypsy, Hristo, from the village of Zhelyu Voyvoda, to buy him a plot outside the ghetto because he asked me to. [[Noise, lines, shouts "Bravo!" and applause from "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] I personally participated and continue to participate in something that you gentlemen must have just passed past your ears, and it is something significant in the Bulgarian reality. [[Noise and lines.]] Please listen to me now, because maybe you'll go where I'll invite you, where I've got participations, this is the annual community meeting in the town of Kotel. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] In the town of Kotel, whether you'll come, Mr. Stoinev, let's see or...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u94	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] Invite us!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u95	No, I won't invite you because the invitation was made by the organizer. I can't take his functions. This is the mayor of Sliven, but I'll tell him. There is a presentation of individual ethnic groups in a very interesting, unique way. Go to the MPs at Kotel. [[Noise and laughter.]] It's not funny at all. There's a really real... [[DPS lines.]] Yeah, and you from the DPS didn't seem to be here last year. There is integration, convergence of communities in practice and it is done. I'm in this process, and I'm happy about it. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mrs. Zhekova, I have a proposal to the management of the National Assembly at all, not to try to conduct the dialogue with its voters in the Chamber and to want to be heard by the people who are outside the parliament. It is good, it is good that this dialogue should be conducted accordingly. If she thinks it is appropriate, we MPs it is simply a bit comical to try from here to talk to voters and the people from the Chamber to talk to them outside the National Assembly building. Because she doesn't talk, she screams, she screams, yes, loudly. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But that's not the point in my statement on Mrs. Zhekova's address. Ms. Zhekova, as they read from GERB real facts, how much and what they did during this annual period, what happened, Mrs. Zhekova did not listen at all to what they were saying to her. She was sitting in a very strange way. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I can't explain it to myself the way you sit on the seat and have your back to whoever's talking. I've been watching her the whole time. She was sitting there with her back turned. It's really weird how she managed to do that thing. Thank you. [[Single applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u96	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. - What's the line? Do they have time for BSP? Would you care to make a reference? They don't have time for lines. I'm sorry, Mr. Kutev, you don't have a line. Personal explanation you can come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u97	Dear Mr. Chairman, frankly, I think it could have been taken in the manner of conduct, perhaps one of the colleagues would have taken it, but to make personal qualifications for who said what? I'm not talking about myself because I'm used to this kind of thing and I have no problems, Mr. Petrov. I've seen this more than once. Frankly, a lot of mediocre people have been trying to tell me whether I'm good or not. I'm used to these things. You don't bother me. But to the coworker, I think it was rude, not to say vulgar, but it's a way of expressing it, since it's yours, so you have it, I'm not against it. I rather took the floor to say something else, gentlemen of the government, about Mr. Petrov's speech. It's happened to me, unfortunately...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u98	Mr. Kutev, for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u99	Yeah, a personal explanation is he was talking about what I'm doing, and I'm making a personal explanation. [[Reply from OP.]] There's another nameless caller here. Step out on the stand so I can answer you. [[Noise and lines.]] For my debt already, unfortunately, as a politician, I have been in many situations. Unfortunately, often in the wrong and some of the most wrong situations I've ever been in is when I had to or didn't realize that I was protecting not only losers but also harmful causes to society. Because if any statement at the moment from this tribune is devoted to whether there is a public benefit from what certain bodies have done that we are doing, as a National Assembly, I may be opposed to, in any way, to counteract or agree, but I know why it has been done. When you defend some thesis that is frankly harmful in this case, because it is because you are defending integration that is not there and that it is dangerous for the society, it is your responsibility. Maybe someone in the country didn't do their job? Even though you are a member of the government, you may not be responsible for this personally and directly, but when you go out to protect someone who hasn't done his job when you defend a policy that hasn't happened and which may be dangerous to society, then you personally carry it. It's gonna be a long time until you realize clearly that the responsibility of standing in this chair is greater than going out and talking a bunch of crap in front of the microphone. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u100	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mrs. Zhekova, and you personally explain yourself, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Petrov, I somehow think that in this room sometimes it is necessary that the tone be clear and clear, because it is as if they all put plugs in their ears when we talk about real problems. And you know, the most pathetic thing about everything is that the report lists a number of problems that have not been solved for years. This report is to wake us up, but there are many tactical gaps in it that relate to the very wording of things as presented. I tried to focus once on the report as a tract, as a structure, and a second time on policies. Sometimes the tone really needs to be a little clearer and clear, because it's as if you don't hear, as if you only hear the positive things you read from the notes, but the problems seem to remain in the background, Mr. Petrov. And how I've been sitting and what stand I've held, excuse me a lot, just don't do the honor of a MP making such comments from the stands. The platform is about the meaningful things, not about your comments on how who has been sitting. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Zhekova. Mr. Gurnevsky is listed for a statement. You give a sign. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! It is impressive that the behavior of the Bulgarian Socialist Party has been going on for a year now, when there are important issues being discussed, not to participate in this debate meaningfully in order to look for a solution to very important problems, but in fact to politicize these debates constantly and they lose meaning. In the end, again, the majority must make the right decisions only and move on. [[Replyings and shouts "Bravo" from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's what's happening today. Mr. Stoynev gets up and says: The sections in Stara Zagora were red.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u104	[[BSP for Bulgaria, from place]] Yes!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u105	Stara Zagora is far away, but I ask you: ask your MP from Asenovgrad what are the Gypsy sections in Asenovgrad, he has experience there. Manol Genov is here, ask him. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] I'm saying real things. He becomes Mr. Pawnov and says: "We once did integration. " Well, come to Plovdiv to see what integration they have done, not to take out the Roma and send them to the neighborhoods. By a decision of the City Committee of the Party, Komsomoltsi newlyweds are moving to Stolipinovo "11 blocks along 144 apartments, finally on the beach, cornered by Stolipinovo. That was your integration? Thirty years we cannot carry out in Plovdiv those families are already retired, in the other parts of the city, again cornered by Stolipinovo and the problems. You're talking about Construction Forces, what kind of assets are there? There is. The assets we don't need, there's no one to buy them. Our parliamentary Committee on Corruption and Parliamentary Ethics was held at a meeting. Here are the colleagues, I won't tell the city, we were at a hotel in which there was a sign. A modern, luxurious, beautiful, large hotel and the sign said: And I said to my colleagues: "Hey, everything that we have, because I am also a worker with Mr. Vejdi Rashidov, I have the honour of serving together in the Construction Forces as unreliable, well, here is everything that GUSB has built, then you have privatized the new capitalists. When we asked who owned this nice, big hotel, it turned out to be one of President Parvanov's advisors. So let's not give back the old examples, let's see something more meaningful in this debate - it is extremely important. It's extremely important! It is clear that GERB has started working on this important problem with the creation of this concept. Does it have gaps, weaknesses, whether there are things that are difficult to solve, should they change? Yes, of course, but GERB put his finger in the wound, as in many wounds inherited from your rule before, in the previous years. And I, as a person who worked before becoming a member of a higher education institution, have worked on one of the programs of this strategy and I have actually seen what results it gives. You just can't deny everything because something real is being done. It is clear that education is number one in those things that can solve this problem, and we are all aware of that. It was no accident that GERB brought in his program education as a priority topic. It is no coincidence that teachers' salaries have been decided and jumped dramatically because this problem needs to be solved. So, there's a problem, there's a solution, it's starting to be solved. I'm putting on a little topic I'm not politicizing, very important, and I'm going to give you examples. I think that the esteemed authority who is working on this issue, Mrs. Hristova, we have worked with you, we have known each other for many years, perhaps we should start serious work with the Bulgarian Orthodox Church for joint work. You know that in the years of similar problems that are important, global in the future, the church is that spiritual body that can help extremely much. I'll give you an example. There is a very serious empty niche in this regard. In a small village on the road from Asenovgrad to Stara Zagora, Mr. Stoynev, there are 100 families and 50 of them are Roma, so these 50 families are covered by another religion from a Protestant church. They go to church every Sunday with their kids. All these people work in the field, or in the processing industry in the region. Every morning a bus takes their children to the village of Popovitsa, where they study together with the Bulgarians. They go with the mood and when we are interested in what the results are, it turns out that Roma children are better presented in the educational process than Bulgarian children. I disagree with Mr. Stanilov that these people cannot be integrated. Come to the ghetto of Bulgaria, where 50 000 Roma live in winter. There are several Protestant churches, one of which has over 500 people. I've visited him. All people work, all children study and are integrated so well that you have no idea. In other words, there is a niche for the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. She must go out in front of the people, in front of her children with Sunday schools, in another form, because besides education there must be spirituality. Parents need to be convinced that they have to send their children to school, that they have to work. It's not true he doesn't have a job. There's all the work you want. Everyone's witnessed that for medium-sized footage, low-letter work is as much as you want, but there's no one to work. In this respect, I agree with Professor Stanilov that the laws should apply to everyone. Bulgarian pensioners say: "We want social justice for everyone. The social system should be the same for everyone, but it can help much to qualify and requalify illiterate people or those who need to be literated. Set [[turns to Dragomir Stoinev]] Construction troops are no longer that solution. There's no way with free labor and exploitation of labor to get this man to become a soldier when we don't normally have a barracks to exploit to give him a carpenter's profession. There are enough organizations that can train a person in just a few months without exploiting it. The social system can also play this role. I therefore call on you, when we discuss national important topics, let us run away from politics and look for ways to build on what has been achieved, how to improve it. Then we will be well-meaning to solve the problems of so many Bulgarians. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u106	Are there any lines? I won't. Personal explanation Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Rashidov, I heard that Mr. Gurnevsky approached you directly if this is the occasion. Do you have an occasion from a previous statement?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u107	My colleague mentioned my name, so out of respect, because she mentioned my name. College, for the meaning of the word "integration." You've got it all wrong. I've been telling you about the Construction Forces and the labor of the man who makes all the sense. Integration is to teach people through their professions to be able to work. Gypsies are nothing different from Bulgarians. Here I agree with Anton Kutev, who said that if we should talk about integration, this problem applies to the Bulgarians as well. In the province things are not very good, as we have now ordained for the Roma. Roma are wonderful, talented, they are a good tribe, people who love life, music are, people who are talented and can be talented, but in the years we have deprived them of serious education. We took the money for education and created these gypsy barons. Thank God they've been gone for the last ten years. Either there are no programs or there is no money, but there are no barons. As much as we talk, the Construction Forces will hardly be revived, but if Karakachanov revives the Construction Forces, it is good to have women there, as you are here in Parliament. There is only danger of shaving from time to time, but there is no other danger. [[Radio and laughter in the hall.]] You have to be there because not everything that sticks out gets caught the same way. [[Radio and laughter in the hall.]] It is one thing to grab a pen, it is another to catch a shovel. A shovel is a tool that reproduces something. There's a metal part in the front and a big handle in the back. A grip is like a man who can work. So please don't divide ethnicities. Mr. Kutev has said something very nice as we continue, we will create a division from which ethnic peace could threaten our country. I agree with that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u108	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u109	You don't have a problem with that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u110	Mr. Burgeev's manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u111	Dear Mr. Notev, dear colleagues! I'm taking the floor the way it is, because the debate is getting crooked. Although I have infinite respect for Mr. Rashidov and Mr. Gurnevsky, her words are somewhat abused by the same mantras. That taking the floor and addressing my colleague, I think it was out of place. Therefore, I ask you to be more thorough in monitoring the debate and compliance with the Rules of Procedure. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u112	Mr. Burgeev, you're right. Mr. Stoyev for a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u113	For a personal explanation, because Mr. Gurnevsky turned to me. Mr. Gurnevski, I best said that all Roma sections are won by GERB. That's all I said. I didn't say GERB bought votes. These voters are intoxicated by your election program, and that is why they vote only for you. [[Radio and applause in the BSP for Bulgaria.]] I want to say I like that you want to build. I also disagree with the court's decision, not to give sentences by this tribune for specific MPs. This isn't a trial. Third, Mr. Gurnevsky, you are absolutely right that it should be upgraded. Colleagues, this report will be accepted. Problem is, it's not working. That goes for all of us. We'll transfer the problem again for next year. The problem, fellow Members, is that this is not a national priority. It's not about the right, it's not about the left. It's all about finding out together that this is a time bomb. You have to find the concrete, the right solution. We can't just sit around and argue every year who's done what before, who's done what now. The problem is that all of us as a political class have failed in this integration. Integration de facto does not exist! And that's why with this way of working, continuing with these tips, it doesn't work. These people are doing their job, but it depends on the political will that the direction should be and what results we expect from them. In a few minutes we will change the problem, everything is forgotten, and unfortunately, we are not doing real concrete actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u114	Thank you. We're out of the form of the personal explanation, but there's no point in making notes. Let's take it easy. Mr. Jayhan Ibryamov has the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u115	Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, honored guests! I'm going to start with a cult phrase by Bernard Shaw, who says, "Colegi, who can do, who can't teach." There are very few people in this room who can. There are also those who teach. Often with rhetorical craftsmanship from this tribune, which we have witnessed, terrible things can be introduced, terrible ideas, often without intrusion, the world can be subdued. I am starting this way because, when it comes to reports, whether it will be a report, which we are currently looking at, for the implementation of the National Strategy for Roma Integration, whether it will be a report on the Ombudsman, whether it will be a report on protection against discrimination and so on, we feel that we are in a university hall and are being taught rhetorical mastery. My colleagues and I have commented and heard many speeches. I conclude that there are extremely many non-integrated politicians in this House to the political process, and we comment, see how we will integrate Roma into Bulgarian society. Fact! There have been statements from the type of non-compliance of anything in the report. This in itself speaks of the wrong model, which has been created and which is currently managing the state, whose portfolio deputy prime minister is absent to hear his own report, which has been drafted. But they are strong in one, colleagues, and in particular he himself to call precisely those Roma bitches who give birth irresponsiblely and do not need help. Even more, we have heard colleagues say that we should remove the ghettos, so that in their political platform, with which they appear in elections, they say: "Romas must be an attraction for the citizens who come to Bulgaria, i.e. to define areals, ghettos and to be on display. Tell me how will we integrate this part of Bulgarian society?! It is interesting to hear how you talk about changing the value system of some of the Bulgarian citizens or even worse to ask the church to participate in this process. We're politicians. In the 16th and 17th centuries the secularization process began where the church was separated from politics. This speaks even worse of the current ruling class when we trust the church to carry out this act, which we are currently talking about with this 77-page report. This report is a good business card, a good brochure, as some other reports have called it, many figures, extremely many projects that have been used and not used, money has been distributed to a mudguard. Finally, the report concludes with a two or three-page conclusion. And notice, the conclusion shows the activities of the municipalities, not the state, of the results they have reported, on top of that and the recommendations that the municipalities give. Colleagues, the state is missing. There is really a great deal of money being spent on projects for Roma integration, but the report covers not a small part of Bulgarian citizens in disadvantaged situations, as well as other ethnic groups. We cannot say that this report concerns only the integration of Bulgarian citizens, who are assigned to the Roma community. I will give you two examples: one is fracking, as the report concerns six main chapters relating to education, healthcare, culture, non-discrimination and so on..............................the light ray in the report of health mediators......................the.................................................................................................................................................................................... When we talk about education, however, I will quote verbatim what is written on page 20: On 5 June 2017 206 378 children and students aged 5 to 18 have dropped out of the education system and have never been recorded in it. This is not just about the Roma community, honourable colleagues, talking about Bulgarian children. Continues: The exact number of children and students returned from activities under the Joint Working Mechanism of the institutions is 17 298. When we take into account the progress on this report, we must take very careful account of the data mentioned in this monitoring report - 206 thousand Bulgarian children have dropped out of the education system. This report concerns the period 2012 - 2020 and again we come to the conclusion of what the powerlessness of the government that fails in its policies is. And another example: in a chapter related to education, e.g. 3.2 says the following: "Development of various forms of intercultural education aimed at preserving and developing the cultural identity of Roma's Roma'; "Support of activities aimed at preserving and developing the cultural identity of children and students of Roma origin'. To ensure the education of students studying Turkish, Hebrew, Armenian and Roma language in the elective classes and/or in the faculty classes from I to VII or from the first year of study to the seventh year of study in 2017. The Ministry of Education and Science developed and established the educational programs in the language of the mother. And there's a table. Since it is a chapter concerning intercultural, related to Roma,...the study of mother tongue in the country for the last three years of study: Roma language, zero, and the program is aimed at them. We strongly support that every Bulgarian citizen should know Bulgarian language. But when a community whose mother tongue is different from the Bulgarian language does not know its mother tongue, influence and responsibility for it has the family, but also the state, and there is no way for this community to be integrated into the Bulgarian society. It's a huge gap that needs to be taken into account. Before I graduated, because there were calls for political correctness and it was mentioned about carrots. You know, colleagues, how interesting when you're reading and doing your analysis, I'm going to quote: The morgues for the gypsies are running out, it's time for the stick. You know whose wisdom that is? Mrs. Svetlana Doncheva, wife of Deputy Prime Minister, who is lustrated as the most European deputy prime minister in this department, and not only in this department.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u116	Mr. Ibryamov, I don't think this is the place to comment on Facebook posts!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u117	It's right on the subject, Mr. Chairman. The call that the gypsies or the Roma are guilty of something is not said about what. In Bulgaria, social benefits are the lowest in the whole European Union and nobody even guarantees survival. In Bulgaria there are neither aids nor carrots intended for Roma, however, there are projects for Roma integration and some people with white collars absorb these funds. The lady in question must know that very well!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u118	Mr. Ibryamov! This is the second time I've paid attention to you! We're not arguing with the lady, the wife...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u119	We can present facts in his past, in his work on precisely such projects where money has been used for Roma integration. And if something in integration policy didn't work out, at least the Roma deserve the stick, honourable colleagues. When there are instalments for integration, in our country there are always some law-abiding Democrats, but when the money splits, the same people change their identity, become conservatives and start re-educating minorities. That's the biggest joke I've heard lately. Dear colleagues, being a citizen is the highest quality of man. It is not taught in school, but it is a collection of rights, obligations, virtues, which are brought up by the whole atmosphere of democratic rules and morals, and democratic rules and morals are created by us politicians, with our attitude towards Bulgarian citizens. We at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will not support this report because it does not correspond with the political truth and correctness that is being found in the Bulgarian society and governance as a whole at the moment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u120	Dear MPs, we will continue the debate after the break with lines to Mr. Ibryamov's speech. Rest till 12:00, 10:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u121	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing the work on the discussion of the report. Are there any MPs willing to give a reply to Mr. Ibryamov's statement? I can't see. Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u122	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I will say that, as President of the Parliamentary Group of the United Patriarchs, I will vote either abstention or abstention. I have a little more time to decide.Perhaps heads and tails I will throw, not for anything else, but because I am against the principles of what has been for several decades, perhaps more, is applied in Bulgaria a group of Bulgarian society to be paid special attention to them. When you set aside a group of people and make special budgetary, financial or any social initiatives for them, there is in fact discrimination applied to these same people, we are talking about the ethnic Roma community here. To be separated and to talk about their integration is offensive to themselves. If I may, on behalf of the Roma community, without being their representative, I can say that this is an incorrect policy. If there are representatives here, if they were invited, I'm sure they should react in the same way and say, "Don't separate us into a separate group, because we are full, full members of our society." Every Bulgarian should be able to develop, integrate, study and succeed in the career he makes. We have many such cases of all ethnic origins. In principle, I am opposed to the creation of special programmes, which have already been said, go into the hands of certain bosses, barons and so on. They don't help people who are in need, and at the same time we have 1 million. and 600,000 Bulgarians below the poverty line. The vast majority of them are of Bulgarian ethnic origin, not Roma; the vast majority of them are people who have worked for their country, worked hard and lived in poverty. If I have to make programs, my proposal is conceptual, it is not for the House, but in principle these programs should be made so that they reach the really needy Bulgarians. Among them there may be Roma, there may also be Bulgarians and representatives of all ethnicities. This does not matter at all because all Bulgarians, Bulgarian citizens are equal before the law under the Constitution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u123	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Come in, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u124	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Siderov, it is a great surprise to me that you will not support this report. Just to remind you that your coalition partner just said that, in fact, thanks to the majority and the Council of Ministers today there is a debate in the plenary. Here the question is: is the debate important or is the result important? Next moment. It is this Council of Ministers, which conducts the integration that you deny, that the Council of Ministers is headed precisely for integration, and that is by an outright xenophobic who has been convicted for this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u125	Mr. Letifov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u126	I also see a nonsense in this whole story, but I support your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u127	Is there another line to the statement? I don't see any MPs who want it. Are there any other requests for speeches? [[The National Representative Volen Siderov wants the floor.]] You don't have time, Mr. Siderov. [[Heckling]] There's no time for a doppelganger. [[Heckling]] Here's an opportunity for a doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u128	Just to clarify that I said and stressed: in principle I am speaking. In principle, I am opposed to the practice of separating a group of people and making special programs. We don't speak here personally who is currently in the Council of Ministers, who is Prime Minister, who is Deputy Prime Minister. I mean, it's the wrong approach. And if we can get him up, we'll bring down the discriminatory and improper treatment of this group of people. What are we really doing now? We say: "You must integrate, which is a suggestion that these people are not full citizens of society. This is wrong. I'm against it. Any program that separates a group of people from society is, in my opinion, anti-constitutional. If there are programs, they should be social, economic, cultural, but they should be thematic, not ethnic groups of people. That's what I meant. It doesn't matter who's on the Council of Ministers right now. Tomorrow it will be another, before that it was other governments. These programs were going, this money was being given and spent, as it was said, wrong. That's what I mean. This is a question that can be resolved.. three mandates are even few, four, five mandates more or less will be enough to fix things. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u129	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Are there any other statements? There aren't any. The name of Mrs. Hristova, who wishes to take part in the topic we are debating, is recorded. Here you are, Mrs. Christova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, first of all, I would like to say and note that hardly anyone in this House believes that 2017, which is a reference period, is the year in which the problems of Roma integration in Bulgaria or in any Member State of the European Union will end. They will continue 2018. They will continue after the end of the period of the National Strategy 2020. Others will make a new strategy and will have to implement it. Of course, it is correct to answer some questions that have been heard in the Chamber. First of all, about combining politics. There has been a lack of combining policies for Roma integration in the report. I want to tell you and here is the place to mention three things that were done exactly in 2017, which we are debating. In 2017 an integrated approach was launched between three operational programmes with European funds. The Program..Regions in growth................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. This is already being done and beneficiaries, pay attention are municipalities, because the lives of each of us are developing in some municipality. The second very important thing that was done in 2017. The Regulation on inclusive education, the adoption of Roma children was adopted precisely in the multicultural environment. This regulation supports the creation of full - time training. Especially for Roma children it is extremely important. Next, in 2017 the new Coordination Mechanism for Cooperation between Authorities and Institutions for Attracting and Detaining Children to School started. Because of this unpleasant and unfavorable process of dropping children out of school the most affected Roma children. The result so far is 17,000 children who are attracted back to school. I have to tell you, this isn't the end of the challenge. We must continue to work because new dangers arise immediately from dropping these children if they do not work systematically with them. The question of the monitoring and control system has also been raised. You see this system has not started to work. I want to tell you that the facts show otherwise. It consists of three components. This is a project implemented by the National Council for Cooperation on Ethnic and Integration Issues at the Operational Program "Human Resources Development." The first component is the analysis of the situation in the country. The contract on this component was concluded in February 2016. The second component is the introduction of indicators. This contract was concluded in June 2016. The third component is software. For this software under the Public Procurement Act there are three appeals that are completely unfounded, of course. Nevertheless, the software contract has already been concluded. Analysis and indicators should be covered by software. The next report to be viewed in the National Assembly will be made with the new monitoring and control system of what has been carried out under the Strategy. This contract was concluded in March 2018. The question was also raised: do you see what budget is spent to implement the National Strategy for Roma Integration in the Republic of Bulgaria? I suppose most of the MPs are aware that these are horizontal policies. The strategy is not a single program of an office, of a ministry. These are horizontal policies and they require cooperation and coordination between all state institutions in Bulgaria, including with local authorities, with municipalities. So this strategy is not covered by a separate budget. It has also been mentioned that there are not enough numbers in the Report. I must tell you that the report is packed with quantitative and qualitative indicators on the implementation of the 2017 Strategy. The report also reflects the activities that have been carried out under measures for everything in the six areas contained in the Strategy: training and qualification; employment skills for job search, motivation for employment; linking immunizations to social benefits; linking regular school visits to social assistance; health care work with mobile medical offices, prevention, training of young mothers; working with Roma mediators, which have already become 250 in Bulgaria. In the European Union it is reported as a unique experience of Bulgaria. The work with Roma health mediators. They are 250 already in 118 municipalities. Also for inclusive education, compulsory modules for Bulgarian language for children whose mother tongue is not Bulgarian language. Here is quoted a table where children have the right to study their mother tongue in elective modules and it says: see if there is no data for Roma children. It should be known that, under the United Nations Convention on the Protection of the Rights of the Child, parents are responsible for their children by the age of 18. This study of mother tongue optionally can only be done with a special request from the parent of the child to study that language. All these measures are aimed at reducing social differences because the differences, ladies and gentlemen, are not ethnic. Differences are of a social nature. You may also have been impressed that the report does not hide the difficulties, the report does not hide the challenges and problems with the Bulgarian language, both with employment and with vocational education and qualification, and with housing policy. You may also have been impressed that it draws attention to the need for political cooperation and cooperation between the authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u131	Thank you, Mrs. Christova. Dear Members of Parliament, before we close the debate, are there any who wish to speak after we have heard from Mrs. Hristova? I don't see any requests. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote on the decision. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. There's a vote coming up. I'll introduce you to: Project! DECISION under Administrative Monitoring Report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration 2012 - 2020 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to Section VIII, p. 6 of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration 2012 - 2020 HAS DECIDED Administrative monitoring report for 2017 on the implementation of the National Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria for Roma Integration 2012 - 2020 Please vote. Vote 162 MPs: for "79," against 64, abstention 19. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] The motion to adopt a decision has not been accepted. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u132	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, I would like a re-vote procedure. It is evident that Members who failed to participate in the vote entered during the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u133	We are voting on the 2017 Administrative Monitoring Report draft decision. Vote 168 MPs: 83, against 68, abstention 17. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria and DPS.]] The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u134	We continue with the next item on our agenda: REPORT ON THE WORK OF THE OMBUDSMAN OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA IN 2017 We begin with a Report of the Commission on Religions and Human Rights. Here you go, Mr. Velchev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u135	Madam President, if we have to wait a little longer for the colleagues to sit, especially to the left.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u136	Honourable Members, I request silence in this Chamber. I ask those who are about to leave her to do so quickly!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u137	Dear Madam President, before I present the Report, I shall make a procedural proposal under art. 42, para. 2 for admission to the hall of Mrs. Maya Manolova.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u138	We are going to vote on the proposed admission in Mrs. Manolova's room, Ms. Kovacheva and Mrs. Rangelova. Please vote. They voted 126 MPs: 124, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please come in, ladies, to the court. We'll continue with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u139	♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018. A Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018 was discussed at a regular meeting of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights, held on 10 May 2018. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Diana Kovacheva, Deputy Ombudsman, and representatives of NGOs. The report on the Ombudsman's activities in 2017 was presented by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Maya Manolova. It provided information that, compared to 2015, the number of complaints and the number of visits to the reception hall, which is proof of increased trust in the institution, had increased twice. The total number of complaints and alerts received in 2017 was 12,635, the number of citizens consulted at the institution's reception office was 22,69 and the total number of citizens who received direct assistance from the Ombudsman was 34,908 and were 29,11% more than the previous year. The population in the country where the Ombudsman met with the citizens is 97, 17 admissions are organised, as well as one on specific unresolved problems of the citizens. Additional hotlines were found in order to obtain a quick and adequate response from the experts of the institution. In 2017, the number of complaints and signals from public service users is the largest, representing 24.22% of all complaints. First of all are complaints against providers of electronic communications services followed by a significant number of signals against heat companies, electricity supply companies and water operators. 3341 complaints were completed and 335 recommendations were made, on 526 a specific council, and 404 of the cases was brokered. According to the Ombudsman, the minimum reduction in complaints against the heating companies is due to legal changes to address some of the problems in the enforcement proceedings and to reduce the amount of legal fees. Ms. Manolova pointed out that the practice continues that monopoly companies that perform public services, as well as banks, to transfer their obligations to collector companies and the complaints received against these companies are 164 more than 41% compared to 2016. A serious 25% increase compared to 2016 is complaints related to violation of social rights and represent 14,17% of the total number of complaints. The complaints for the protection of citizens in the execution proceedings follow. The increase in one year is 133%. In 2017, the number of complaints by citizens for discrimination against them was increased. Mrs. Manolova pointed out that one of the main directions in the institution's activities last year is related to children's problems. The high rise in complaints in this direction is the result of the broad campaign to promote the Ombudsman's role in protecting children's rights and for the first time in 2017 20 complaints from children have been received by the institution. In 80% of all complaints filed, a violation of the rights or interests of the child has been found. Special focus in the activity are the problems of children with disabilities, as well as those related to violence in the family, on the street, at school. At the initiative of the institution, a National Coalition is formed against violence and against body punishment and has a comprehensive concept to be presented to the executive. Mrs. Manolova noted that the social rights of citizens were at the forefront in the work of the institution last year. Thanks to good cooperation and interaction with the National Assembly, with the legal changes adopted, the problems of workers and institutions with incorrect employers are solved. An important topic in the work of the Ombudsman in 2017 is also the protection of one of the most vulnerable groups in society, the people with disabilities who need the most support in the realization of their rights. Nine campaigns and initiatives related to citizens' rights, part of which have been successfully finalised, are organized. Among them is the European campaign against the double standard of food, which in the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency of the EU has concluded with a specific document adopted by consensus by all participants and with the message to the citizens of Europe that the double standards for food are coming to an end. A serious place in the report is devoted to the activities of the Ombudsman as a national preventive mechanism.. visits to prisons.. prisons and investigative arrests, psychiatrists, social institutions for adults and children, refugee centers. As a result of his activities on specific issues, the Ombudsman exercised his right to an indirect legislative initiative. 10 bills were submitted, two requests to the Constitutional Court and two requests to adopt interpretive decisions to the Supreme Administrative Court. The Ombudsman's annual report for 2017 also includes a special part related to monitoring the implementation of international human rights acts, which results from monitoring and reflects both the extent to which national legislation is aligned with the content of international human rights protection acts to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party and their implementation practices by national institutions. The Ombudsman provided statistical information on the implementation of the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights (ECHR), as well as on those in an enhanced surveillance procedure by the Council of Europe Committee of Ministers. Mrs. Manolova stressed that Bulgaria took one of the first places for outstanding judgments and those in an enhanced surveillance procedure and the amount of the amount it paid as a result of the convictions of the ECHR in 2017. The EUR 641 535 is significantly higher than other Member States of the Council of Europe. During the discussion the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Dencho Boyadzhiev and Vasil Antonov expressed their views on the report and asked questions to Mrs. Manolova. The questions were related to the Ombudsman's increased legislative initiatives, to the miners' pensions, to the compensation paid for the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights, to the distribution of complaints by region. People's representative Vasil Antonov said that organizing foster institutions, covering one third of municipalities, confirms the impression that public trust in the institution and personally towards Mrs. Manolova is increasing. Mrs. Manolova answered in detail all the questions asked to her. Following the debates held, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights unanimously, with 13 votes in favour, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018. The Commission also proposes a draft decision to be debated and adopted by the National Assembly. ? RESPONSIBILITY? on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u140	Thank you. Next is a Report of the Commission on Synergy with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u141	Madam President, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018. The Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints at a regular meeting held on 10 May 2018 discussed and discussed the Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018. The report was presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova at the Commission meeting. In the performance of art. 22 paragraphs 1 and 4 of the Law on the Ombudsman The activity report has been submitted to the National Assembly. As an importer, the Ombudsman presented the 2017 Report as a summary. In 2017, public confidence in the Ombudsman's institution of the Republic of Bulgaria grew as a result of the pro-active activity and achieving results in the protection of the rights and interests of citizens: 34 908 citizens sought assistance from the Ombudsman, 12 635 complaints and signals were filed, 22 369 citizens were accepted and consulted by the Ombudsman's host, 3060 were complaints from public service users. The relevant chapters of the Report set out the specific actions of the Ombudsman to protect citizens' rights by sector. For 2017, 10 legislative initiatives and four hearings of the Constitutional Court have been made with a request for interpretive decisions. In 2017, the Ombudsman conducted two national campaigns related to children. A guiding principle in the work of the national ombudsman as an independent body is: protection of the rights and interests of the child. The successes achieved in the reform for deinstitutionalization of child care, as well as challenges, most of which arise from unresolved problems and unplanned timely resources, are objective. Special attention shall be paid to the reform of child justice. In 80% of the complaints, a violation of the rights or interests of the child, inaction by various authorities, and that the measures taken were without taking into account the opinions and interests of the children. For the first year, there is an increase in the number of complaints submitted by children and for 2017 they are 20. A huge part of the work last year is aimed at protecting the rights of public service users. In 2017, complaints against providers of electronic communications services were first followed by a significant number of alerts against heat companies, electricity supply companies and water operators. The complaints submitted by heat consumers are 595. There is a lasting trend of provision of a poor service without consequences for heating plants. In 2017, there were 488 complaints in the water services sector. The analysis of complaints and signals shows that the problems in the sector remain unresolved. The Ombudsman shares the view of the citizens that the water operators and the regulatory authority treat their complaints with neglect, thereby making them feel powerless to protect their consumer rights. An important theme in the Ombudsman's work is the protection of one of the most vulnerable groups in our society, the people with disabilities who need the most support in the realization of their rights. The current situation with respect for the rights of people with disabilities is still not good, which is also a testimony to which is the large number of complaints received at the Ombudsman's institution relating to social services. In 2017, there were 786 complaints and signals in the field of labour rights and employment, with a very high increase in 2016 The analysis of complaint data, meetings held and the results of checks shows in a firm way that the violation of the rights of citizens to pay wages or compensation continues. The practices for the rapid transfer of the employer's property to a socially weak citizen or the opening of insolvency proceedings continue. During the past year, complaints by citizens against the actions of private judicial enforcement constitute a serious share of the total number of complaints received by the institution. Following the entry into force of the changes in the PDK, complaints regarding the activities of arbitration have been sharply reduced. The Ombudsman is actively working with civil society. All the larger campaigns that are organized are together with NGOs. There are signed numerous cooperation contracts, memorandums with various NGOs. He actively partnered with trade unions when it comes to labour rights and employers' organizations when it comes to protecting Bulgarian citizens. It should also be noted that working together with non-governmental organisations working in the area of protection of children's rights. They are extremely active and extremely useful for the institution. During the discussion the people representative Anton Kutev spoke, who supported the presented report and expressed his opinion that the institution enjoys the trust of Bulgarian citizens. It has been stated categorically that the joint work of the Commission and the Ombudsman's institution is very important and useful in solving citizens' problems. On the basis of the submitted report and following a vote, the Commission on the interaction with non-governmental organizations and citizens' complaints with 15 votes................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Next, a report from the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Who will present this report? Is there a member of the Social Committee in this room? Dr. Genov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u143	Madam President, honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018. The Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its regular meeting, held on 18 April 2018, discussed and discussed the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Hüseyin Ismail, Head of the Department of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Discrimination and experts from the administration of the Ombudsman, representatives of NGOs. The report was presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova. It started taking account of its activities by presenting the priorities that the Ombudsman and his administration had in 2017, namely the protection of children's rights, the protection of citizens' rights against abuse of monopolies, the protection of citizens' rights at risk of social exclusion. Mrs. Manolova presented comprehensively all the campaigns that have been organised and conducted over the past year. The report contains information on complaints and alerts received, which are 12,635, as well as the number of citizens who sought the assistance of the ombudsman. 17 exported admissions are organized, visits have been made to more than 80 settlements on unresolved problems of citizens. The number of final complaints shall be equal to the number of complaints received. The report points out that in the years the Ombudsman has established himself as an important factor for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens in Bulgaria. The Disabled Rights Section states that during the accounting year the monitoring of the implementation of the 2012 UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities has continued, but no significant progress has been observed regarding the policies for these people. In 2017, 314 complaints and alerts for affected rights of disabled persons were received, with the largest share of those related to social and economic protection, followed by complaints for social services and personal mobility. The Ombudsman's recommendations in this area are to ensure the implementation of the strategic documents and plans adopted by the executive to implement the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, including a new Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and the adoption of an adequate Law on Social Services. The report points out that the problematic areas of violation of the rights of people with disabilities are: the programs and projects for the social service "Personal assistant"; socio-economic protection; accessible environment; medical devices; gesture language; introduction of the Single Information System of Medical Expertise in Bulgaria and others. Section V of the Report deals with the protection of the social rights of citizens covering the right to work, the acquisition of the right to pension, social assistance, housing aid and others. It is concluded that social protection systems do not provide adequate protection in all cases of social risks and for all citizens. This also indicates the number of complaints and complaints relating to social rights, which are 14,17%.. 1790 pcs., of the total number of salaries received or benefits received by an employer, unpaid social security; unpaid overtime; unpaid documents; active companies that do not pay their employees or sell companies to new owners who are on social benefits and others. The actions taken in this direction in the Labour Code introduce a three-month period for payment of benefits by the employer; control of the Labour Inspection of payment of benefits and salaries and after termination of employment. In the Commercial Act, a ban on the transfer of a commercial enterprise and company shares for unpaid salaries and social security; an opportunity for the Executive Agency to request the opening of insolvency proceedings. In the Law on guaranteeing employees' claims in the event of the employer's bankruptcy, increased opportunities for more workers to receive benefits from the Fund for Guarantee of Claims and others. In the field of employment, citizens raise issues related to: difficulties in their employment; refusals by employers to hire them; suspended registration as unemployed, etc. Employment in Bulgaria, despite the low unemployment rate, continues to be a problem for citizens in 2017, especially in small towns or in areas with poor economic environment. The complaints of citizens who are in retirement age are particularly worrying, do not have the necessary insurance service to receive a pension and face difficulties in finding a job. These people are left without income and health insurance rights. With regard to the right to pension as part of the right to social security in 2017, 515 complaints and alerts were received at the Ombudsman's institution, most of which relate mainly to the low amount of pensions, the receipt of a survivor's pension from a child to a deceased parent, the announced dropping of the pension ceiling only for those to whom pensions will be granted after 1 January 2019 and others. The report shows that a continuation of pension reform is needed after a broad public discussion. In the area of the protection of citizens' social rights, the support sought is with regard to the violation of rights in obtaining social benefits, maternity, financial issues and personal problems. The report contains recommendations from the Ombudsman to establish more flexible conditions that meet real public relations that allow social support for the really needy citizens and families. The discussion was attended by the MPs Dr. Hasan Ademov, Georgi Gokov and Dr. Kalin Popovski. They expressed their satisfaction with the report presented and congratulated the Ombudsman on the work well done this year. Questions were asked in particular regarding the findings and activities related to the rights of people with disabilities. Recommendations were also made to Mrs. Manolova to defend and defend the rights of Bulgarian citizens even more strongly, although sometimes it is related to unpopular solutions and measures for which the MPs give a clear account. At the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 17 votes for abstention, 1 vote for abstention, no objection, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u144	Thank you, Dr. Genov. Next, a report from the Commission on Children, Youth and Sports. Who will present this report? Is there a Commissioner, Vice-President? We continue with the Report of the Committee on Education and Science. Ms. Damyanova, it is an honor for the President of the Commission to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u145	Isn't that normal?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u146	It is normal, but today it is the first President of the Commission to present a report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u147	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to you: ♪ I can't believe for the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018. At its regular meeting on 9 May 2018, the Committee on Education and Science examined the above-mentioned report. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Eva Zhecheva, Director of the Department of Child Rights and Ms. Denitsa Sacheva, Deputy Minister of Education and Science. The report on the Ombudsman's activities was presented by the Ombudsman Maya Manolova. The complaints registered for 2017 in the field of education are 300, with 56% in pre-school education, 15% in higher education and 29% others. The most common complaints in pre-school education are related to: - shortage of places in children's institutions in the capital; - closure of kindergartens throughout the country; - increase in monthly fees in children's institutions; - an outdated model of care for children in the municipal nursery and kindergartens. The recommendations made by the Ombudsman are: to work to achieve accessibility to children's institutions and, in the case of non-classification, to receive a subsidy determined by the State; to allow for validation and certification of knowledge obtained outside the Ministry of Education and Science system for pre-school children attending alternative forms of education and training. The problems in the field of school education relate to: - the coverage and retention in the educational system of children and students at compulsory pre-school and school age; - the segregation of Roma schools; - school management. The Ombudsman stressed that it is necessary to improve the model of funding for schools in small towns and remote areas in order to resolve these problems; to extend the period for passing a full-time education organisation in schools; to modernise vocational education. In the field of higher education, complaints concern: - taking up academic positions; - the quality of the training offered by higher education institutions; - financing separate professional directions. Overcoming them is related to improving the quality of the academic staff and scientific production, strengthening the control of the Ministry of Education and Science in higher schools for compliance with the Law on Higher Education, the Law on the Development of the academic staff in the Republic of Bulgaria and the state requirements, with funding based on results. Ms. Denitsa Sacheva presented the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science on the Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, stressing that most of the recommendations made in the Report were implemented and actions were taken on the rest. In the subsequent discussion, the national representative Irena Anastasova expressed satisfaction with the need to build new kindergartens in the major cities, which is becoming even bigger in view of the idea of full-time training in schools. Ms. Anastasova supported the recommendation for broad discussion in the establishment of the curricula. Professor Stanilov expressed satisfaction with the work of the Ombudsman's institution and made a recommendation for closer cooperation with the Committee on Education and Science. People's representative Milena Damyanova noted good cooperation with the Ombudsman and voiced confidence that it will be a fact not only in problematic situations in the future. With regard to the full-time organization Mrs. Damyanova expressed her opinion on a larger grace period for its introduction. Places in kindergartens in large cities are insufficient due to the great influx of young people to them. For example, 90 new kindergartens were built in Sofia Municipality in recent years, 3 are in construction and 8 more are planned. Ms. Damyanova pointed out as very important the Ombudsman's recommendation for validation and certification of knowledge obtained outside the pre-school education system in alternative forms of cultivation and training. Prof. Klisarova raised a question about the existence of complaints regarding the work of the National Evaluation and Accreditation Agency, to which Mrs. Manolova answered. After a vote with results: the Committee on Education and Science proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u148	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. We are continuing with the Report of the Committee on Health. Here you go, Dr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u149	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018, No 853-10-13 of 23 May 2018 At its regular meeting held on 17 May 2018, the Health Committee examined and discussed the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Mrs. Svetlana Yordanova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Maya Manolova, representatives of the word organizations in the field of health and patient organizations. The activity report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017 was presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova. The Ombudsman briefed the members of the Health Committee on the health issues identified by his institution in Chapter 1 of point 7 of the Health Law. In 2017, the number of complaints and complaints received to the Ombudsman's institution increased by 17% compared to 2016 and by 82% compared to 2015. The number of complaints for access to medical services was the highest, problems in carrying out medical expertise - 116 pieces, with health rights - 63 pieces, with the quality of medical services - 61 pieces. The other complaints and signals are about the conduct of immunizations, compliance with hygiene standards and requirements in medical institutions, compliance with smoking bans, assistance for payment of treatment, specialization of doctors, proposals for changes in regulations and others. Again, emphasis is placed on the introduced limits that are becoming increasingly restrictive and are one of the reasons for the serious financial difficulties of some of the medical institutions. As a result of insufficient revenue from the National Health Insurance Fund (NHIF), medical institutions face problems in ensuring the salary of staff. There are no means for repairs and new equipment, leading to a reduction in the quality of medical care provided by hospitals. It is disturbing the fact of a shortage of funds in municipal hospitals located in small municipalities. There is a risk of being closed if a working mechanism is not found and emergency measures are not taken to rescue them. Citizens draw the attention of the institution to problems related to the provision of 24-hour care by general practitioners. Particularly serious is the problem in small and remote settlements where citizens have no alternative and in practice the service of patients outside the working schedule of personal doctors is carried out by emergency medical centres, which further burden their activities. The Ombudsman's report also focuses on the problem of lack or shortage of authorised medicinal products subject to parallel export. Sometimes this causes the treatment of citizens to be partially or completely compromised. Particularly serious is the problem with the treatment of malignancies, diabetes mellitus and others, whose absence poses a threat to the lives and health of patients. For another year, the problems related to the expertise, especially the permanently reduced performance, the type and extent of damage, are particularly acutely posed by citizens. A large part of the infringements found concern non-compliance with the instructive deadlines and a significant delay in the certification by TELMK and NELK. In the event of a delay in re-certification, citizens are temporarily deprived of the possibility to enjoy rights arising from an expert decision entered into force, such as an invalidity pension, which is a serious problem where this is their only income. The proportion of complaints relating to the quality of medical care provided is relatively high. In the majority, complaints are related to mistakes made by citizens, resulting in complications or death of a patient. It is worrying that there are complaints in which citizens point out that they have become subject to medical activities, including surgical activities, without having had an objective reason to do so. Such activities shall be carried out in order for the hospital to receive funds for the treatment of those patients paid by the NHIF on the relevant clinical path. There are complaints of false data in epicrises and other medical documents. During the discussion between the members of the Health Commission and the Ombudsman, emphasis was also placed on the problem of blood and blood products. Mrs. Manolova shared about the expressed discontent with the existing practice of donation for payment by the patient and his loved ones. Other topical issues that were addressed in the discussion are about the specializations of young doctors, the additional payment of medicinal products and medical devices, the rights of health-insured and uninsured citizens. The Members of the National Assembly expressed their approval of the report submitted, of the detailed and correct provision of information in the field of health. On the basis of the discussion and the vote taken on the following results:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u150	Thank you, Dr. Alexandrov. The report of the Committee on Environment and Water follows. Here you go, Dr. Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018. At a meeting held on 7 June 2018, the Environment and Water Committee examined the Activity Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018. The activity report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 shall be submitted to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman. The meeting was attended by: the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria Mrs. Maya Manolova and by the Ministry of Environment and Water: Mr. Krassimir Zhivkov Deputy Minister, Mr. Ivan Angelov Director On behalf of the importer, the report was presented by the Ombudsman Mrs. Maya Manolova, who paid more attention to environmental and water protection activities. She stressed that 2017 was a year of battles for citizens' rights, including the right to a clean and healthy environment, successfully carrying out 9 campaigns, one of which European, within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency, against double standards. Ms. Manolova pointed out that in 2017, the proportion of complaints against investment proposals with a risk of adverse impacts on the environment and the health of people is significant, with the greatest discontent against projects related to the exploitation of underground wealth, including oil and gas research, pointing to specific cases when local referendums were also held. She noted that people are mainly afraid of pollution of water, agricultural land, air and others. The demands of citizens to stop harmful emissions, unpleasant smells, water pollution and abnormal noise from industrial plants and biomass processing plants in residential areas or near settlements are urgent. The report sets out specific cases of this kind, such as the village of Trud, Nova Zagora and others. The Ombudsman noted that environmental issues remain in the focus of public attention in 2017. Signals refer to all environmental components.Sound pollution, pollution of water and air from production and business, base stations of mobile operators and others. Complaints related to stray dogs and protection of humans and animals, complaints against logging of forests, cutting of trees in urban environments and others increase. The report also paid attention to complaints about the clean air. Mrs. Manolova pointed out that the recommendations on environmental protection are to supplement the regulations on air conditioning installations and their external bodies, stricter control of harmful emissions when checking the technicality of heavy goods vehicles, improving EIA procedures and providing more complete information on investment intentions in the part of the protection of the environment and human health, as well as compliance with the priority for competent institutions, the balance between economic development and the right of citizens to a clean environment. The attitude of the report was taken by the President of the Commission Mrs. Ivelina Vassileva, who stressed the importance and role of the Ombudsman's institution, as well as the adequate response to complaints by the citizens; and the people's representative Rumen Georgiev, who supported the presented report and pointed out the rapid and adequate response of the institution. Deputy Minister Zhivkov pointed out the good interaction between the ministry and the institution of the Ombudsman, and Ms. Karamfilova stressed the priorities for good cooperation and coordination between the two institutions, including with the regional structures of the Ministry of Environment and Waters, and pointed out that the Ministry of Environment implements a long-term programme and policy to protect natural and human potential. After the discussion, the Committee on Environment and Waters with 14 votes in favour, without the opposition and the abstention, supported the submitted report and expressed the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839 02-5, submitted by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria on 30 March 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u152	Thank you, Dr. Grudev. We will now hear the Commission's report on children, youth and sport. Here you are, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u153	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria submitted on 30 March 2018 a report on the activities of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted on 30 March 2018 by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Mrs. Eva Zhecheva, Director of the Department of Child Rights, Mr. Hüseyin Ismailov, Head of the Department of Disabilities and Discrimination, and Mrs. Nurten Patrakli, Senior Expert in the Directorate of Child Rights. On behalf of the importer, the report, as part of the Commission's competence, was presented by Mrs. Maya Manolova in the year of new spaces, initiatives for the rights of the child. In his statement, the Ombudsman noted that the institution's activities for 2017 were defined as a year of action in the interest and protection of children's rights. The report contains information from systematic issues related to children's rights and their special protection, parental conflicts, family environment, as well as certain expectations from institutions related to the resolution of acts of violence and aggression in children's institutions and schools. It is apparent from the general review that, compared to the previous year, the number of complaints and alerts increased almost three times. The importer focuses on the problems related to the protection of children victims of crime and on the rights of children with disabilities, where there are still irregularities. Considers that, in order to address these challenges, changes to the legislative and administrative arrangements, which will be governed by the adoption of a Personal Aid Act guaranteeing children with special educational needs, an active and independent way of life, are necessary above all; The report contains recommendations corresponding to real public relations on the existence and operation of specialized educational and social boarding schools. It was concluded that parents are becoming increasingly sensitive with the children with the judicial system so far, with deadlines and irresistible judicial fees being only part of the unresolved issues. With regard to the identified problems posed in the signals, the fact that there is a certain recurrence is worrying. The Ombudsman paid serious attention to the need for political will for legislative changes in the area of child justice, which will ensure the protection of children's rights in conflict with the law, as well as recommend that measures be taken to amend and supplement the Family Code in line with the interests of the child. It was emphasized on the fact that the Republic of Bulgaria is the only country of the European Union in which there is no law in line with modern standards for child and youth justice. A proposal was made during the exhibition to initiate legislative changes in relation to the conditions for obtaining an inheritance and personal pension from children left without one or two parents, as well as the opportunities for obtaining scholarships. The following discussion was attended by the MPs Teodora Halacheva and Sevim Ali. They expressed their satisfaction with the presented report and the good work of the institution. Ms. Halacheva proposed that a hearing be held by the Minister of Justice on the readiness to submit to the National Assembly the Law on Deviation from criminal proceedings and the imposition of educational measures on minors. The Ombudsman answered the questions and clarified that the institution, by its active activity, has emerged from the framework and has established itself as a factor that solves significant problems related to the protection and protection of children's rights. As a result of the discussion and on the basis of the 19-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Report on the Activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017, No 839-02-5, submitted on 30 March 2018 by the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u154	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. This was the last report submitted. There are no reports from the Committee on Legal Affairs, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Will there be an importer's opinion? Mrs. Manolova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thank you for the opportunity to present from this highest tribune to you, the MPs you have been elected by the sovereign, the Work Report of the Ombudsman Institution for 2017. I am chosen by you, you are chosen by the Bulgarian people, so here is the place and probably this is the time to report to the Bulgarian citizens what I have done in the past year. I already had the opportunity to get acquainted with the different aspects of our work in seven portfolio committees, there were fruitful debates, constructive proposals arose. I hope I've been helpful, but all of this, as well as the reports that have just been presented, make my task as much easier as possible, so I'm going to try to fit in for the rest of the day. This is the report on the institution's work [[shows him]] That's what it looks like. These are actually days and nights, not only mine, but also my team over the past 12 months. I use this case above all else to thank them, to thank the people with whom I work, for dedication, for expertise, for the willingness to give and to be available to the problems of the Bulgarian citizens literally seven days a week. I know, I realize that the institution seems overactive, that people, and you are probably having trouble following the various topics that we are dealing with, but this is inevitable because this is the agenda of the Bulgarian citizens, these are the problems of the Bulgarian people, and you, as MPs, are mostly aware of this. The challenge for us, apart from paying the necessary attention to every citizen with his problem, was not simply and not only to sound the problems, but also to solve them, not only to criticise them, but also to achieve results, which was possible thanks to the interaction with the institutions, which was first and foremost with the National Assembly in 2017, for which I thank everyone who took part in the legislative proposals in the interests of the Bulgarian citizens that we tabled. Thus, thanks to the communication with the institution of the Ombudsman, I dare say it has become from the last hope to the first aid of the Bulgarian citizens, from a rapid response team ready to appear immediately on the spot, to intercept the problems, to return as many times as necessary until justice is served and until the rights of the citizens are adequately protected. And if until two years ago, literally until two years ago, complaints to the institution came with an address to all the other institutions and finally a copy to the Ombudsman, now start with the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, which we do not enjoy, but rather worries us, because apart from an indication of the growing trust and inevitably huge expectations of the citizens, is proof of something else about the problems the Bulgarian citizens today have in Bulgaria and the state of human rights today in Bulgaria. In fact, the report and the numbers we are starting with are a sufficient characteristic of the dynamics in the work of the institution and indirectly about the problems of the Bulgarian people. [[Initiating screening of multimedia slides.]] In 2017, as shown by the charts, 34,908 people sought assistance and assistance from the Ombudsman's institution, with 22,369 visiting reception rooms in the capital and the exported reception rooms, which we literally organize in the country weekly, and 12,635 of them are formed as complaints and signals on which I and my team have worked specifically. This is nearly 30% more compared to 2016. We are in a position to compete with ourselves and nearly twice as many of the complaints and signals received and expectations to the institution as compared to 2015. In 2017, as an ombudsman, I visited 97 settlements with my team on various issues, hosted. The following chart shows the dynamics in the growth of complaints compared to 2009, since the institution makes statistics. The numbers speak for themselves. In addition to the specific complaints committed by the Ombudsman's institution, in 2017, we organised nine national campaigns for the protection of rights, violated or threatened rights of Bulgarian citizens. Among them, I would highlight the campaign to ban arbitration courts in relation to consumer disputes and citizens; the legislative changes we have achieved together to protect citizens against the superpowers of private judicial contractors; and the changes to the protection of the labour rights of Bulgarian citizens against the insolent and incorrect employers. Among the campaigns, I would also highlight the campaign against double food standards within the European Union, which is a European campaign and which was launched, organised by the Ombudsman's institution. With the event organised by me and my team within the Bulgarian Presidency, dedicated to double food standards, I dare say that this is the first manifestation of such a nature that broadcasts an important message to the citizens of Europe, namely that the double standards in food and European institutions and bodies are coming to an end to legislative proposals to prohibit the supply of foods under the same brand with different content at different points of the European Union. Thus Bulgaria, the Bulgarian institutions, Bulgarian politicians showed that they can form European policies, while policies that are in the interest not only of Bulgarian citizens, but also of 100 million citizens of Europe. The distribution of complaints on portfolios shows that the highest proportion of complaints for protection of the rights of consumers is expected, followed by the social rights of the Bulgarian citizens, thirdly the complaints in the enforcement proceedings. On the next graph we show what is the dynamics in the height of complaints in different directions. It shows that the biggest increase in complaints in the enforcement proceedings is expected, as people were literally exhausted from the opportunities for racketeering and abuse by private judicial enforcement. Also increased by 61% the complaints related to the right of Bulgarians to education, by 43% the rights of children, by 25% of the social rights. If you look at the chart that indicates the number of complaints, perhaps some of you will get the wrong impression, for example, that complaints in education, which are 300 in number, show hardly in view of the small, absolute number, that everything is fine there and that is some small number of complaints. On the contrary, the problem that we have found is that behind these 12600 complaints that were lodged at the institution last year, there is a very large number of collective complaints on issues that concern large groups of citizens. For example in the field of education such are complaints against the rules for admission of children in kindergartens, against the different quality of training of first-graders, respectively difficulties admitting in some schools of first-graders, complaints against the curriculum, against heavy backpacks, against black-and-white textbooks, against the closure of schools, technicians. In other words, these are complaints behind which many people's interests stand and show the existence of systemic problems in a number of sectors. Some of the graphics you will be able to look at in the Report I sent you. I'm committed to sending every MP and today's presentation. I think there would be interesting findings and conclusions for your constituents. For example, the graph on page 13 of the presentation shows what the distribution of complaints by districts is. Since each MP has its own electoral area, we could inform ourselves of the problems posed by the people of the region concerned. It seems that the most adequate and most appropriate show the dynamics of our work people who visit the institution's reception, so a part of the report is devoted to this part of our work. The numbers here also speak for themselves: in 2017 " 6682 people have passed through the Ombudsman's reception room and the phone calls are 11 819, which means that the reception room has been visited daily by 25 30 people and the phone calls are over 50. We are also regularly opening hotlines on specific citizens' problems, so that an expert with the necessary expertise is constantly available to citizens. We have found such hot telephone lines relating to citizens' labour rights, with the possibility to declare and receive benefits within certain deadlines from the Fund for guaranteeing claims in the event of company bankruptcy, and also complaints related to the work of the energy distribution companies, in particular with the problems posed by one of them. For information again to the MPs, as many of the people fall into our reception room through the National Representative, it is open every day from 9:00 to 17.30. It is mandatory one day of the week to accept the Ombudsman, one day to the Deputy Ombudsman, the Secretary General, the Chief of Staff and thus to pass through us last year the problems of several thousand people. Children's rights were one of the important highlights, an important priority in the institution's work last year. Expectedly, the number of complaints concerning children's rights has been significantly increased. I dare say this is also the result of the campaign to promote the Ombudsman as a defender of children's rights, which we have organised with my team. We actually met with more than 3,000 students in ten schools, in different cities on the topic of Children's Rights and how it should be through the funds of children's and school self-government of children's ombudsmen who have been elected in many schools to defend these rights. For the first time last year, the number of complaints made specifically by children has increased. There are 20 complaints that children have made to the institution a problem that I have faced, taking up office as an ombudsman. It turned out that, although since 2012, the Ombudsman has a legal mandate to protect children's rights, there was not a single complaint lodged by a child in the institution at that time, which meant that children do not recognize us as a defender of their rights. If I can highlight the problems and complaints, the recommendations we have made with my team, so that I do not fall into the huge specifics relating to the rights of children, who, you all know, are violated daily by different institutions, I would highlight the need to support children in their biological families, inclusive education, violence against children in school, on the street, in the home, children with disabilities, a huge problem that is at your attention and given the protest of mothers before the institution of the National Assembly; children in conflict with the law continue to spend their childhood behind bars because of the fun of the Ministry of Justice to bring the long-awaited Law on Children's Justice. I very much hope that this will happen in the next plenary session. Perhaps this is the place to say a few words about the personal assistance bill that the mothers of disabled children are protesting about. Indeed, this is a project that will not solve the problems of all people with disabilities, but the problem of assistant care, with personal assistance, especially of children and adults with the most severe disabilities, can be solved through these rules. The main points that we propose for change are two: firstly, to change the approach and personal assistance, to provide assistant services after a specific analysis of the needs and needs of each person and, secondly, to end with the project principle in assistant care, which condemns the families of children with disabilities to complete uncertainty, whether they will wait for the next change and the next programme. The situation of the mothers of children with disabilities who are forced by circumstances to care for their children 24 hours, who at one point find themselves out of the system, without health insurance, without opportunities for adequate continuation of their lives not only professional and career, but generally as people. I very much hope that lawmakers will also be interested in this so important for the mothers of disabled children. The rights of consumers were expected, was the topic that excited the most Bulgarian citizens last year. We have completed 3341 complaints, we have made 335 recommendations, of which 285 have been implemented. Statistics show that the largest number of complaints that were made against mobile operators last year, against the use of mobile phones, mobile internet, television linked to the mobile internet. The largest number of complaints against the heating companies with an undisputed record is Sofia thermal efficiency, electricity supply companies, water services, financial services, banks, transport services, collector companies, fast credit companies, all companies that directly interfere and on which the lives of Bulgarian citizens depend. Both in the Report and in the presentation there is a detailed presentation of the problems in directions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u156	I'm asking for sector accents. All MPs were familiar with the report and the committees had the opportunity at least once to get acquainted with the activity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u157	The recommendations we have made are described specifically and briefly in the presentation, in particular, in terms of mobile services, in terms of heating. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the changes to the Energy Act, which concern the heat supply, have matured in a row, perhaps a second or a third year, in the Ministry of Energy. The next working groups are created, which are plunged into endless discussions, and the amendments to the Law and the Ordinance on Heat Supply remain a mirage for the Bulgarian citizens and especially for the citizens of Sofia. It is vital that the rules by which the so-called building installation charge, which pisses citizens off, be changed so that the methodology is fair and, above all, understandable to people. I am using this case to say it once again: with regard to water services, the biggest problem in 2017, which will continue this year, is related to the high water prices, the changes that are being made on a proposal from the water associations with the approval of the KEWRC. I have tabled proposals in parliament to enable Bulgarian citizens to appeal these decisions because they are practically non-complainable. What the independent regulator decided, without judicial control, becomes mandatory for Bulgarian citizens. I ask the MPs who are interested in this topic to look at these proposals, because I believe that this is an unfair decision of the legislator from previous parliaments. Electricity rights are also linked to prices, to the quality of the service, to the ability to charge adjustments and payment amounts for past periods, and an absolutely illegal amount for interruption and renewal of supply continues to be collected, although there is a judicial decision saying that these charges are illegal. Public transportation, waste collection, topics which we have dealt with very and in detail and have written the latest recommendations to the Ministry of Finance and to the National Association of Municipalities in Bulgaria that it is high time for the methodology for determining the fees to be taken into account according to the amount of waste disposed of, to be accepted. The problems related to the banks, the problem of the overdebtedness of Bulgarian households and the problems that this creates for them and for their children and for the Bulgarian state and for the treasury, if you will. The number of complaints against collector companies is high.. 41% more. There is a large number of complaints against companies for quick loans. This is a sector that needs redeploying rules so that citizens get some protection. We are currently working at the institution on the Law on the bankruptcy of individuals, which is extremely difficult and responsible work. I hope that the Ministry of Justice, to which we have invited numerous invitations, will be included with the expertise on the topic, will reconsider its position and make good legislative proposals in the interests of Bulgarian citizens. Bulgaria is the only country in the European Union that does not have such legislation and the European Commission is currently discussing a draft directive that is in an advanced phase. The rights of people with disabilities were also at the attention of me and my team, the accessible environment, the programs for personal assistant, the state of medical expertise, the problems of people with it, the aids, medical devices, social assistance. All this was the cause of numerous complaints, the main problem here is the same as the problem of the mothers of children with disabilities, namely that they do not take into account the individual needs of the disabled person. All the measures taken by the state are not in line with these needs, which I hope will change with the new bills, which are also being drawn up in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. One word I will say only related to the social rights and labour rights of Bulgarian citizens, and it is: a huge thank you to you, honourable Members. Thank God the bleak forecasts regarding the bill I submitted and which was adopted by the National Assembly at the end of last year did not come true. Thanks to you, thanks to the changes you have made, several thousand people by the end of this year, according to the Fund and the Labour Inspection, will receive their remuneration. These amounts are up to 5 million or 10 million. BGN, compared to the 257 million that are located in the Fund for Guarantee of Claims. These are minimal amounts, but, on the other hand, justice will be restored to many Bulgarian cities, among the workers of insolent and incorrect employers. I thank the Labour Inspectorate, who started very active work on the start of insolvency procedures against employers who do not pay their workers, but, most importantly, the debate that happened in Parliament and in the Bulgarian society, the changes that we made together, according to data from the Labour Inspectorate, act preventively to employers and one large part, most of them, have voluntarily paid the workers the risk of entering into insolvency proceedings. So great thanks, we did a good job on the labour rights of Bulgarian citizens last year.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u158	Mrs. Manolova, there is very little time left until the end of the session. I'm asking you to navigate...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u159	The right to education. Thank you to the Education Committee. The work of the institution was presented in the report by Mrs. Damyanova. The right to health care and problems also by the portfolio committee. About the right to property. We worked very and detailedly last year with a number of MPs and on the topics related to farmers' rights and ownership of agricultural land. I would like to draw your attention to an alarming fact that complaints against investment proposals are growing which are causing dangers from adverse environmental impacts. These are projects related to the exploitation of underground riches, the extraction of oil and gas, gold containing ores, electricity from biomass, the destruction of green areas, the construction of skyscrapers. Citizens are increasingly sensitive to any environmental disturbance and the protests that happened in Sofia against the intentions to build several skyscrapers were supported by me. Protests across the country show that civil society is awake. I also congratulate the citizens of Stara Zagora, of Tran, of General Toshevo, of Uglen, who held referendums last year to protect the cleanliness of their settlements. I'm going to end it here. The following topics are detailed. They relate to discrimination, hate speech, the work of the national preventive mechanism, which has presented a separate report. Our constitutional appeals. I use the case to highlight it for last year there are only two, i.e. there is no concern about the Ombudsman being abused by the power to attack acts of parliament in the Constitutional Court. We do not have much success in complaints to the Constitutional Court, with which I do not think the Constitutional Court is right, but this is statistics. [[Single applause.]] I would ask you to go through the presentation to the end of the presentation of our international activity, our legislative initiatives and the non-governmental organizations with which the institution is working. For the finale, I don't know what kind of expectation I'm going to make next year when I'm doing this analysis. Is increasing complaints a good sign at all about the state of the rights of citizens in Bulgaria, is it only about the activity of the institution, or is it just that people have many problems?! More like the second one, but I hope we can solve a big part of it together.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u160	Thank you, dear Mrs. Manolova, for the extensive exposé. [[Loud applause]] I would like to ask if there are any speeches? There are speeches, which means that we will continue the work on the Ombudsman's report tomorrow and we will not be able to proceed to a vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u161	We're out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-06-14.u162	Honourable Members, you are giving up your speech. Are there any other statements? I won't. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, we shall proceed to the vote. We vote. ? RESPONSIBILITY? The National Assembly on the basis of art. 84, p. 17 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and in relation to art. 22, para. 1 of the Law on the Ombudsman HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Activity of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017 Vote 114 MPs: for 113, against no, abstention 1. [[Applause.]] The decision's been made. That concludes the work on today's plenary day. Parliamentary Control Communication on 15 June 2018, Friday: Debates on the inquiry by the MPs Georgi Mihailov, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev and Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on the National Health Card of the Republic of Bulgaria. Questions and Questions Answered: 1. Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer three questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Georgi Mihailov. 2. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer two questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Petar Petrov. 3. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MP Zhelyo Boychev. 4. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer five questions from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov; Radostin Tanev; Jayhan Ibryamov; Nikolai Ivanov and Ilian Timchev; and Hristo Grudev. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of two questions from the MPs Veska Nencheva and Manol Genov; and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov of a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev; and a question from the MP Petar Hristov Petrov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev of two questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov; and Ilian Timchev and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on one question with a written answer from the National Representative Ivan Dimov; - Culture Minister Boel Banov on two questions with written answer from the MPs Kristina Sidorova; and Stefan Danailov and Chavdar Velinov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva and Interior Minister Valentin Radev will not participate. Due to the use of sick leave, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting. Due to prior commitments with international participation in the parliamentary control meeting, Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova will not participate. In the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not be able to participate because of his commitment to scheduled meetings and meetings included in the Calendar of the events of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, approved by decision of the Council of Ministers No 817 of 29 December 2017. Thank you for your patience, I'm adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
