ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! First of all, let's celebrate the celebration of all the housewives today, to be alive and well, to be very lucky and successful! Happy Thanksgiving to the builders! Please, registration mode. There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, we have the basic agreement of the Conference of Presidents to extend the time until the adoption of the two bills that we will be dealing with today. I put to the vote the proposal to extend the time to vote on the two points for today. Vote 156 MPs: for 154, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Mr. Popov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, today we are looking at two very important legislations: a bill for people with disabilities and a bill for personal assistance. The Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Simeonov, however, is absent from watching these two bills. That is why we insist that Mr. Valeri Simeonov come to the National Assembly in viewing paragraphs 12 and 14. I ask that he be urged to come to the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u3	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I will urge Mr. Simeonov to attend the hall. Please inform Mr. Simeonov of the desire of the Members of the National Assembly to be in the Chamber when examining these two bills. The first point for today is: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR PEOPLE WITH CONFIRMATIONS. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. He will first introduce us to his report, the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Law on Persons with Disabilities, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. The Commission on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 24 October 2018 examined and discussed the bill for people with disabilities. The meeting was attended by Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy; Mincho Koralski, Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities; Eleonora Pachedjieva, Director of the Directorate of the National Insurance Institute; Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, Husein Ismail, Head of the Department of Administration of Ombudsmana, Ivan Delchev, Senior Expert in the Directorate of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and Discrimination. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet! Take your seats, colleagues from BSP! I think the subject is very... [[(Replications from MPs from BSP for Bulgaria.....................................................................................................]] Mr. Dimitrov, please take your place!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u6	The bill was presented by Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. At the beginning of the presentation, he stated that the draft was developed in implementation of the Programme for Government Management of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021, which laid down measures relating to the improvement of the legislation on the integration of disabled people's integration policy The draft Law on Disabled Persons provides for the provision of all support measures to be implemented by a single structure that provides adequate support for disabled people and enables the State to organise and coordinate their inclusion policy more effectively. The coordination mechanism involves communication between the various state authorities in sectoral policies so as to ensure that people with disabilities have access to the public resources. The bill foresees from 1 January 2021 the establishment of a State Agency for Persons with Disabilities to carry out activities related to the preparation of individual needs assessment and coordination of the policy on the rights of persons with disabilities. The aim is to coordinate the implementation of the overall state policy on the rights of people with disabilities. A Monitoring Board shall be established to ensure the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities and to carry out activities to promote, protect and monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and to consult representative organisations of and for persons with disabilities. The coordination of the authorities concerned with the implementation of the rights of disabled persons at national, regional and local level is necessary because of the need to increase the effectiveness of both the individual structures in achieving the common objectives and for the effective use of the limited resources available to the State. New forms of support identified by an individual assessment of needs that examines the health-related functional difficulties and the availability of barriers to the implementation of daily and other activities, as well as the type of support required, shall be identified. By establishing the type of support the disabled person is directed to the competent institutions and organisations for the implementation of his respective rights. The new approach in the preparation of the individual assessment envisions the same to be carried out by specialized departments of the "Social assistance" department, whose functions will be mainly set to carry out this activity. Specialized departments will be formed by qualified experts trained to work with disabled people. At the legal level, the definition of the specific types of support consisting of two components is envisaged: The first component is monthly financial support that compensates for the costs caused by the damage and represents a monetary amount, depending on the extent of the damage. The second component consists of targeted aid according to the type of damage and depending on the needs of the assessed person. It is envisaged that from 1 January 2020, the financing and provision of assistance, facilities and medical devices for people with disabilities will be carried out by the health system and will be provided in a natural dimension and in accordance with a new mechanism and established quality standards. The draft Law on Persons with Disabilities creates opportunities to ensure equal access to education and vocational training, to provide employment in a regular, specialised and secure working environment, as well as to provide adequate support for disabled workers and their employers. The labour quota introduces the same regulations for the private sector, with non-compliance with quota obligations leading to the payment of compensation contributions for employers. The quota principle will apply to employers with a staff size of 50 or more workers and employees. The bill proposes binding the public spending of funds in the form of subsidies for the employment of people with permanent disabilities with fulfilled commitments in respect of the quota principle. The proposed change aims to improve public and corporate social responsibility. In this regard, employers will be able to receive funds under programmes and measures to promote employment under the Employment Promotion Act only when they certify the fulfilment of quota obligations. With the proposed bill, the Agency for Persons with Disabilities continues to finance targeted programmes and projects of specialized enterprises and cooperatives for people with disabilities in order to improve their productivity and competitiveness. A new form of employment is laid down for people with permanent and multiple disabilities, which can be created to specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled persons and labour and medical facilities, as a mechanism to support the labour integration of people with permanent and multiple disabilities, with the aim of providing conditions for the performance of productive activities, paid work and providing personal support services. It is envisaged to develop and implement a National Programme in support of employers, respectively, the appointing bodies, to finance adaptation and/or job equipment activities and to ensure, where necessary, access to them in order to stimulate and assist employers in hiring people with permanent disabilities. The bill provides for an amendment to the Social Insurance Code in relation to respect for insurance in retirement time care for a person with permanently reduced performance or type and degree of disability over 90 per cent, as well as for a child with certain foreign assistance who needs constant foreign assistance. An information system will be established for people with disabilities, which will serve to monitor and analyse the socio-economic status of people with permanent disabilities, to plan activities related to meeting their individual needs and to develop sectoral policies. The information system will maintain a profile of any person with permanent impairment with the possibility of individual access to personal data for the person through identification under the Law on Electronic Identification. At the legal level, common and specific criteria for national representativeness of organisations of and for persons with disabilities are introduced and more relaxed conditions for their recognition as national representative are defined. Financial support for the national representative organisations of and for disabled persons, provided in the form of a subsidy from the state budget, as well as control over the implementation of State-sponsored activities, shall be laid down. At the end of the presentation, Minister Biser Petkov said that as far as financial resources are concerned, while approximately preserving the number of disabled people with at least 50% permanently reduced productivity, about 490 000 people per year will require a budget resource for 2019 of around 332 million. lv. Annually. This means that, compared to 2018, an additional amount of around 133 million will be needed. lv. An overall preliminary impact assessment report is attached to the Bill. It states that the adoption of the Bill will provide an opportunity for explicit regulation and legal definition of a new, modern model of protection of the rights and interests of people with disabilities, which will fully meet the expectations of society and European principles. A reference from the Ministry of Justice has been attached to the Bill, which shows that according to art. 28, para. 3 of the Law on Legislative Acts on the Compliance of the Draft Law with the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights, the proposed bill does not create any legal prerequisites for conflicting with the provisions of the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and the practice of the European Court of Human Rights. A reference to the draft law is attached to the reflected opinions received after its public discussion. It shows that there are both supported and unsupported proposals made by citizens, institutions and NGOs. On 11 October 2018, a meeting of the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities was held, which was decided by the National Council to support the Law on Persons with Disabilities. The draft was discussed on 12 October 2018 by the Permanent Committee on Income and Vital Level of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. After the discussion were made, the following opinions were expressed: the CST supports the project, the SCI refrains from support and the representatives of AICB, the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Bulgarian Industrial Association and KT Supporta do not support the draft law. On 16 October 2018, a meeting of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation was held. The NTSC has not achieved unanimous support on the draft Law on Persons with Disabilities. The employers' and trade union organisations have advocated different positions. The opinions of the Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry, the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Union for Business Initiative, KT "Supporta" and the Co-operation of the Bulgarian National Consumer Co-operation of the Blind, as well as non-governmental organizations and citizens, are deposited in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. Opinions shall contain principled consents or disagreements and concrete proposals to change the bill. The discussion was attended by the Ombudsman of Bulgaria Mrs. Maya Manolova, Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities Mr. Mincho Coralski, representatives of employers and trade unions, mothers of children with disabilities, representatives of organizations for people with disabilities, citizens with disabilities and others. Everyone stood up for those in their written opinions. Mrs. Manolova expressed support for the bill in general. She said he also had gaps that she hoped would be removed at the second reading of the Bill. It supports the main policies and measures underlying the project, such as the mandatory nature of individual evaluation, monthly financial support for people with disabilities, aid funds and medical devices, which will reach the people who need them. On the occasion of the quotas for appointments of disabled people by employers, Mrs. Manolova said she is firmly behind the texts governing these obligations and hopes that employers will reconsider their objections. The discussion was attended by the MPs Georgi Gokov, Svetlana Angelova, Kalin Popovski, Milko Nedyalkov and Hassan Ademov. Everyone appreciates the efforts made by Minister Petkov's team in order to make the bill a reality, appreciate the support received by the mothers of children with disabilities and the National Council for the Integration of Disabilities. With this bill are overcome the controversial moments, the differences are overcome, the contact points are found. Members of the National Assembly are convinced that the bill is a response to some of the needs of disabled people and is a first step towards solving many of their problems. Following the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 21 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support a bill for disabled people, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u7	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. The next report belongs to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. You have the floor to present the report, Mr. Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u8	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for people with disabilities, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 25 October 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill for people with disabilities, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Sultanka Petrova. The draft was developed in the implementation of the Programme for the Management of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021, which sets out measures relating to the improvement of the legislation on the integration of disabled people's integration policy and complies with the requirements of the Convention on the Rights of Disabled Persons of the United Nations, ratified by law on 26 January 2012. The bill is intended to settle public relations related to promoting, protecting and guaranteeing the rights of disabled people and their support for social inclusion. Its strategic objective is to provide the state with the necessary and adequate socio-economic support for people with disabilities through which they can be fully integrated into society. In a new way, the areas and means of support for social inclusion are defined and principles that define personal choice, independence, equality, accessibility, full and effective participation in the public life of disabled people and their families are introduced. There is a new comprehensive legal framework for the settlement of public relations related to guaranteeing the rights of disabled people in the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill provides for the provision of all support measures to be implemented by a single structure that adequately supports disabled people and enables the state to organise and coordinate their inclusion policy more effectively. This structure will have the status of state agency at the Council of Ministers. The aim is the State Agency for Persons with Disabilities to coordinate the implementation of the overall state policy on the rights of people with disabilities. It will play a leading role in the coordination between institutions and organisations and will start functioning as of 1 January 2021 and will be the universal successor of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. The Agency for Disabled Persons will ensure that the newly created structure is secured with its available personnel resources and a material and technical base. In order to carry out the functions of promoting, protecting and monitoring the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations, a Monitoring Board shall be established to ensure the protection of the rights of persons with disabilities. The Council shall carry out its activities on the basis of the principles of independence, equality in treatment and full participation in public life. Specific functions of the central government and the local self-government bodies are regulated, extending their responsibilities in coordinating the policy on the rights of people with disabilities. The coordination of the authorities concerned with the implementation of the rights of disabled persons at national, regional and local level is necessary because of the need to increase the effectiveness of both the individual structures in achieving the common objectives and for the effective use of the limited resources available to the State. The Draft Law on Persons with Disabilities creates opportunities to guarantee conditions for equal access to education and vocational training, to provide employment in a regular, specialised and secure working environment, as well as to provide adequate support for disabled workers and their employers. The proposed changes regulate equal access to physical environment, labour and recreation, personal mobility, transport, information and communications, including information and communication systems and technologies and all other public services in urbanised territories. The requirements laid down for an accessible environment are mandatory when designing and approving detailed planning plans and their amendments, as well as when designing and approving investment projects for the construction of new or reconstruction projects, major renovation, major renovation, reconstruction, construction and upgrade of the elements of urbanised territory and of buildings and facilities. The Commission has received opinions from a number of non-governmental organisations, which have made concrete proposals to refine individual provisions. During the discussion the MPs supported the need to adopt the proposed changes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 17 votes for the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018, proposed to the National Assembly a bill for people with disabilities, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u9	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. The next report belongs to the Health Committee. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I offer your attention. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on a bill on people with disabilities, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. At its extraordinary meeting held on 24 October 2018, the Health Committee examined and discussed a bill for people with disabilities, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Sultanka Petrova, representatives of word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations, the National Council for the Integration of Disabilities and others. The bill and its motives were presented by Mrs. Sultanka Petrova. The objectives of the Bill are aimed at improving legislation in the field of integration policy for people with disabilities. It is implemented in the Programme for the Management of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 measures related to the preparation of a new type of social assessment of people with disabilities, with reference to the needs and the modernization of the system of integration supplements for people with disabilities, comply with international legal standards and the requirements of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities of the United Nations, ratified by law on 26 January 2012. Support for social inclusion of disabled people includes multiple means: medical, social, employment and psychological rehabilitation; education and vocational training; employment; accessible environment, personal mobility; access to justice and legal protection; financial support. The proposed new approach in the preparation of the individual assessment of the needs of people with disabilities provides that it will be carried out by profiled specialists in specialized departments at It is important and undoubtedly positive to regulate the legal level of adoption of a national programme by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Health for early prevention and diagnosis of genetic and prenatal diseases and acquired conditions. The adoption of the programme will create conditions for achieving high national coverage for prenatal screening. It is envisaged that from 1 January 2020, the financing and provision of medical devices and assistance, facilities and facilities for people with disabilities will be carried out by the health care system by the Ministry of Health and/or the National Health Insurance Fund by introducing a new mechanism for granting them in a natural dimension and standards for their quality. The new granting mechanism, as well as quality standards, will be endorsed by the Health Insurance Fund Manager and the Minister of Health. In the course of the discussion it was shared the opinion of the parent of a disabled child that the bill is a step forward in improving the legal framework in the area of the rights of people with disabilities and is the result of in-depth work and analysis of many ministries, institutions, representative organizations and civil movements. As a valuable advantage of the proposed new legislation, the creation of conditions for employment of disabled persons was noted as a means of social inclusion and a way of changing public attitudes. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out, the Committee on Health unanimously proposed to the National Assembly that the bill for people with disabilities, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u11	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism. You have the floor, Mrs. Shevked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u12	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe under the Law on Persons with Disabilities, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 24 October 2018 examined and discussed the bill for people with disabilities. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy Lazara Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, and Lyubomira Arshinkova, Chief Expert at the Department of Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Aids.The Administration of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria. The bill was presented by Deputy Minister Lazarov. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is to provide the state with the necessary and adequate socio-economic support for people with disabilities through which to join society. The proposed bill has a claim to ensure the equal and full exercise of the rights of disabled people. A comprehensive new legal framework is proposed and the rights of disabled persons are guaranteed in respect of their human dignity by applying an individual approach and assessing their needs. The establishment of an Agency for Disabled People is envisaged for the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. To control the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a Monitoring Board shall be established, which shall have a four-year term. National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities with Presidential Deputy Minister is set up for cooperation in the development and implementation of the policy on the rights of people with disabilities to the Council of Ministers. An individual assessment of the needs of persons with disabilities by employees of the Agency for Social Assistance is envisaged. The individual assessment shall include three components and shall, in conclusion, determine the types of support defined by the order of this law. Support for social inclusion is carried out through various types of rehabilitation; education and vocational training; employment; accessible environment; financial support. In order to ensure the employment of people with permanent disabilities in a normal working environment, a labour force quota is introduced which regulates the responsibility of all employers to allocate from their jobs for the appointment of people with permanent disabilities. Jobs determined by the order of art. 315 of the Labour Code is not taken into account when taking into account the implementation of the quota under this law. In case of failure to comply with the quota obligation, the employer shall owe a monthly compensation contribution of 30 per cent of the minimum wage for each non-employment for a permanently disabled person. The employer may apply to the Agency for disabled persons for funding activities, such as hiring disabled persons for a period of not less than three years after providing funding. The Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities shall approve programmes and projects for the launch and development of an independent business activity of disabled persons through specialised undertakings and cooperatives of disabled persons. Specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled persons shall be allocated 50 percent of the social security contributions due and compulsory health insurance. In order to ensure employment for people with permanent and multiple disabilities, protection centres can be established. Monthly financial support for people with disabilities depends on the extent of the damage and the amount of the poverty line. In addition to monthly financial support, disabled persons can also receive targeted aid according to the type of damage. The Agency for Persons with Disabilities establishes and maintains an information system for people with permanent disabilities, maintaining a profile for each person, in the case of regulated data exchange with other state authorities. The Bill provides criteria for national representativeness of the organizations of and for people with disabilities. The bill repealed the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. The amendments to the Social Insurance Code shall respect the time during which a person with a particular foreign assistance has been taken care of. In addition, corresponding amendments to the Social Assistance Act have been proposed. The bill shall enter into force by 2021. The implementation of the bill will be linked to additional costs and administrative resources to upgrade the capacity of the Agency for Social Assistance and the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, as well as to all other administrations with fundraising to people with disabilities. Additional financial costs are envisaged for the establishment and operation of the newly created structure and the implementation of the information system. A preliminary impact assessment, as well as those required under Article, has been applied to the Bill. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Confederation of Independent Trade Unions in Bulgaria believes that the Draft Law deserves support and expresses hope that the CST's considerations regarding some insufficiently good and precise decisions in the Bill will be taken into account. The newly established Monitoring Board deviates from art. 33 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and seems illogically structured. The CST does not accept the decisions in the Bill that refer to the so-called personal assistance, considering that in this bill personal assistance should be developed as Section Six, not in a separate law on personal assistance. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry supports the need for a new law for people with disabilities. Unacceptable for employers are the additional allowances for employment of disabled persons outside the Labour Code; the obligations to pay a compensation fee of 30% for each non-employed place of employment for a disabled person. The market economy focuses on incentives rather than pressure and sanctions. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry also reserves against the timely effectiveness of the bill, as a large part of the provisions are programmed, not regulatory, and another part foresees the adoption of new acts. The Bulgarian Industrial Association, in its opinion, defines as categorically unacceptable the obligations for the employment of disabled persons and the intended compensation contribution. The implementation of the proposed new obligations in many of the enterprises will impose the release of staff and the appointment of the vacant positions of under-prepared people with disabilities. It is categorically false and irresponsible in the Impact Assessment that, for undertakings within the scope of the application of the Law, financial liabilities will not be created. The Bulgarian Industrial Association draws attention that the transfer of problems from one group to another group does not solve them, but opposes them. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria believes that there is no evidence of the need for precisely such changes in the legislation on disability as the Bill proposes. So far, policies in different fields have not been analysed in terms of their effectiveness and effectiveness. The adoption of the bill in this form will cause even more problems for people with disabilities. Representatives of the Ombudsman's administration said their support for the bill. In the subsequent discussion the MPs from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria asked questions about the lack of financial justification of the bill; about the absorption of funds collected by employers as a fee for failure to meet the quota for appointments of disabled people; about the criteria for representativeness of the organizations of and for the people with disabilities; about the expected number of persons with disabilities who would be appointed by employers in the implementation of the quota principle. The questions asked were answered by Deputy Minister Lazarov. After the end of the debates and the results vote, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: Asks the National Assembly to adopt a bill for people with disabilities, No 802 01 41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u13	Thank you, dear Mrs. Shevked. Following is a report from the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u14	Madam President, honourable Members! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on Disabled Persons, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. At a meeting held on 25 October 2018, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined a bill for disabled people, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Lazar Lazarov "Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy." The draft was developed in the implementation of the Programme for the Management of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021, which sets out measures relating to the improvement of the legislation on the integration of disabled people's integration policy The legislation in force fails to adequately settle the areas and means of support in this area of public relations. The model of social evaluation does not meet society's expectations for creating conditions and guarantees for equal treatment of disabled people and providing social support for achieving independent life and full integration. The bill is the subject of the settlement of these public relations relating to the promotion, protection and guarantee of the rights of disabled people and their support for social inclusion. In a new way, areas and means of support for social inclusion are defined and people's rights are guaranteed in a way that will ensure respect for their human dignity by applying an individual approach and assessing their needs. The provision of all support measures will be carried out by a body that will adequately support disabled people and will enable the state to organise and coordinate their inclusion policy more effectively. The Agency is intended to be the successor of the Agency for Social Assistance and to operate from 1 January 2021. In order to carry out the functions of promoting, protecting and monitoring the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a Monitoring Board will be established. After the presentation and discussion of the draft was held a vote which ended with the following results: 21 votes....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Next is a Report of the Commission on Synergy with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints. Mr. Kutev, please submit the report to your committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u16	Honourable Members, Madam President! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints on a Law on Persons with Disabilities, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. At its regular meeting on 25 October 2018, the Commission on Interaction with NGOs and Citizens' Complaints examined and discussed Draft Law on Disabled Persons, No 802-01-41, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 October 2018. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy. On the submitted bill in the Commission on interaction with NGOs and complaints of citizens there are received opinions from the Bulgarian Industrial Association, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria and the Association of Drivers of invalids. In the presentation of the bill Mrs. Zornitsa Rusinova stated that it was developed in the implementation of the Programme for Government Management of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 The strategic objective achieved by the Law on Persons with Disabilities is to provide the State with the necessary and adequate socio-economic support for people with disabilities through which to be fully integrated into society. The bill provides for the establishment of a new structure to the Council of Ministers with state agency status. It is envisaged that the State Agency for Disabled Persons will carry out activities related to the preparation of individual needs assessment and coordination of the policy on the rights of disabled persons. The aim is to coordinate the implementation of the overall state policy on the rights of people with disabilities. The State Agency will start operating from 1 January 2021 and will be the universal successor of the Agency for Disabled Persons. The Agency for Disabled Persons will ensure that the newly created structure is secured with its available personnel resources and a material and technical base. The establishment and operation of the State Agency for Persons with Disabilities provides for the formation of teams to carry out the individual assessment of the needs of people with disabilities. In order to carry out the functions of promoting, protecting and monitoring the implementation of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, a Monitoring Board shall be established. The bill introduces a new approach to social inclusion through an assessment that takes into account the individual needs of disabled people. It is envisaged that the individual assessment of the needs should be made at the current address of the disabled person by a specialized department in the Directorate of Social Assistance and Social Assistance at the Agency for Social Assistance. The financial support shall consist of two components. The first monthly financial support that compensates for the costs caused by the damage and represents a certain amount depending on the extent of the damage. The basis for calculating the amount of support is the poverty line for the relevant year. The second component consists of targeted aid, according to the type of damage and depending on the needs of the assessed person established in the individual assessment. Within three months of the entry into force of the Act, the Minister of Health and the Governor of the National Health Insurance Fund shall prepare and validate the new mechanism and quality standards for auxiliary devices, devices, facilities and medical devices (PCASMS). Within the framework of the bill, the labour force quota is introduced in the public and private sphere. The proposed provisions shall be in accordance with art. 27 Work and employment, as well as with art. 28 The UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities is an appropriate standard of living and social protection. The bill provides for an amendment to the Social Insurance Code in relation to respect for insurance service in the retirement of the time during which care has been taken for a person with permanently reduced working capacity. The type and degree of disability over 90 per cent, as well as for a child with certain foreign assistance, who needs constant foreign assistance. An information system is being established for people with disabilities, which will maintain a profile of every person with permanent disability. The common and specific criteria for national representativeness of organisations of and for persons with disabilities shall be introduced. During the meeting took part the MPs Anton Kutev, Nadia Klisurska, Daniela Daritkova, Milena Damyanova and Irena Anastasova. Mr. Anton Kutev said he supports the submitted bill. Notes that the Monitoring Board provided for in the Draft Law must be headed by a Deputy Prime Minister, not by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, as it concerns the coordination of many other departments. He added that the Action Plan of the Republic of Bulgaria for the Implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities 2015 Ms. Daniela Daritkova said she supports the bill and stressed that both healthcare and social work should be the responsibility of all ministers. Ms Milena Damiana voiced support for the Bill and recalled that the School Education Act has already regulated inclusive education. On the basis of the debates and after a vote, the Commission on the interaction with non-governmental organisations and citizens' complaints with 15 votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u17	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Will there be an opinion of importers? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I will begin with a declaration that I and the entire parliamentary group will support the bill for people with disabilities in the first vote. That doesn't mean I won't criticize separate principles and norms introduced with it. I begin with the fact that the legislation in force has been in place for many years and the Law on the Integration of Disabled People since 2005 has played its role. There is little money to support people and those who directly concern them, and society in general remains with the feeling that they are being distributed unfairly, into a mudbag, not according to needs. Our entire social system, including the legislation concerning people with disabilities, is the result of continuous, chaotic changes which, figuratively speaking, are intended to extinguish fires and clog holes. This has largely led to the absence of overall logic, to a lack of focus on those who most need support and support. All experts agree that social reform is needed, and should be started with the most vulnerable group of people with disabilities. I think there is already an understanding, consensus and unanimity, even among politicians, and among the users of the system, there is now absolute intolerance and intolerance to the unreformed social sphere and to constant abuse by the government, that aid funds are increasing annually. They have clearly expressed their desire to adopt changes to the present or to develop new legislation that follows the logic of our country's ratified in 2012. The Convention on the Rights of Disabled Persons of the United Nations and to generally reflect the principle of the support received and support being differentiated and not of a mudbag, i.e. according to the individual needs of the person to whom they are directed rather than solely under the televised decision. After persistent protests by the mothers of children with disabilities, the nationally represented organisations of people with disabilities, other formal and informal organizations of people with disabilities and various diseases, against the background of everything I have said so far, the urgent development of a package of laws has begun: the Law on personal assistance, the Law on people with disabilities, the Law on social services. Why is it urgent? It is not clear, given that there are scheduled actions in the action plan of the Republic of Bulgaria to implement the ratified Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in 2012. It arrived until October 18th, when after labor pains the bill for people with disabilities was submitted to the National Assembly. I very much hope that this new bill will become the basis for overcoming most of the obstacles and give a real opportunity for people with disabilities to be integrated into the contemporary Bulgarian society. However, it must be clear that not only legislative obstacles but also the lack of sufficient financial resources is also a problem, that is, the Law and the productions in it will remain only a good wish if they are not financially secured to the necessary and sufficient extent. In spite of all logic and against the backdrop of the prime minister's praise for giving another 150 million to people with disabilities, the truth requires me to note that there is a lack of financial justification for the activities and actions provided for in the bill. The bill itself for people with disabilities was adopted after long and excruciating debates, in which other than experts participated people who did not understand anything about social policy, people who pursued popularity and political goals, and also people who defended only their own interests. There were extremely many problems, many controversial moments, and there were moments when distrust took a peak over rationality. After all, according to some, there has been a bad Law, according to others, the Law, which is not very different from the previous laws, according to a third law, does not solve the problems of people with disabilities. We appreciate the efforts made by all countries in the process of developing the Law on Persons with Disabilities, although it was under serious public and institutional pressure and despite the feeling that during the whole time there was an effort to satisfy often completely opposite demands, interests and claims of interested groups. We appreciate the patience and constructiveism of the Minister of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, which has shown serious patience in the development and coordination of this law. Personally, however, I remain convinced that the bill is more for persons certified by TelK and NELK than for people with disabilities, and as such it would be difficult to work in practice. I give an example: an elderly person with extremely advanced dementia or another serious illness, which makes him a hundred percent helpless and dependent on other people's help, but for explainable reasons is not certified by TelK, how does it fit into this bill? How are his individual needs of social services assessed and what social services could he have access to? It seems to me that, despite the broad media-proclaimed consensus and approval of all participants in the draft process, including by the protesting mothers of the initiative, our system is killing us, including by the nationally represented organisations of people with disabilities, including the Ombudsman, I express my opinion that at this stage unreserved, complete and uncritical support would be more harmful than useful for the future functioning of the Law. It seems to me that before receiving our unreserved support, a number of things need to be changed, and not just minor details, but also some principled acts. In this version of the Bill, it is not clear at all to what extent the objectives of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities are reflected in practice, namely to promote, protect and ensure the full and equal exercise of all human rights and fundamental freedoms by people with disabilities and to promote respect for their inherent human dignity. It is not clear if this bill becomes a law, will it lead to a radical change in public understanding of people with disabilities, which is undoubtedly necessary. Although we are in the first vote, I think we should take a closer look at the texts of the Bill, and in this regard I will allow myself to draw attention not only to some positive things, but I will also allow myself some criticism, repeating that, as a whole, the parliamentary group will support the Bill. As a change in the positive direction, we assess the change of the criterion based on the calculation of the amounts of support for monthly financial support for people with permanent disabilities over the age of 18 to move on to the use of the poverty line instead of the guaranteed minimum income used so far. This is a better and more objective attitude. As a positive change we appreciate the introduction with art. 18 of coordinators on the rights of disabled persons in the central and territorial bodies of the executive power. In principle, the incorporation of functions and competences to participate in the development of policies and measures concerning the rights of disabled people is a good move, and these coordinators could contribute to the central and territorial authorities of the executive to fulfil their regulatory obligations in the area of the rights of disabled people. However, I am questioning whether this will work in practice because these are just another coordinators that we are introducing by Law. In addition, it is envisaged from 1 January 2021 to set up a State Agency for Disabled People as a new structure of the Council of Ministers to prepare the individual assessment of the needs of disabled people, to have a leading role in coordinating overall state policy. Despite the explanations of the Minister for Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, I did not understand the logic not until 2021 to open such an agency, but during this time special structures in the Social Assistance Agency in I do not understand, despite, I say again, the explanations of the Minister, what will be the status of the new agency for people with disabilities................................ or state will be? For example, by 2021 it will be an executive agency and then a state agency? Take a look at art. 10 of the Law, § 18 and § 19 of the Transitional and Final Provisions. What does the removal of support from the Ministry of Labour, Social and Demographic Policy by the Agency for Social Assistance and their transfer to the Ministry of Health require? Having established a State Agency for Disabled People, isn't it logical to trust her with the aids? Are we going to walk these people from institution to institution again? This is not just about administering the distribution of these aids, it is about the fact that the money spent on this activity must be extremely and very strictly controlled. I allow myself to express a personal opinion. At the moment in the Ministry of Health everything is trade and business, far from the principles of social assistance and it is hardly appropriate to direct this activity there. It may sound like a cliché, but the realization of the labour market of people with disabilities is a key tool for their inclusion in all areas of public life, and on this point I think there are no two opinions. We can talk about programmes and measures to encourage employers to hire disabled people who have a positive impact on the employment and integration of these people, but we have to admit that this is not enough either as volume or sustainability. Employment in a normal working environment implies the fastest socialization of people with permanent disabilities and at the same time the most difficult is achieved. These quotas, in my opinion, ensure that the employment of people with permanent disabilities in a normal working environment is increased. No one, even employers' organisations, claims that the employment of disabled people in Bulgaria is at some acceptable level at least like the average for other European countries, especially that these quotas refer to both private and public spheres and create opportunities for sustainable employment. I support this legal provision because this will create better conditions and motivation for people with disabilities to be included in the labour market, and thus will provide income from employment rather than social benefits, will have social contacts, will pay taxes, albeit lightened, and social security contributions. They will be able to really join socio-economically and integrate. I understand the protests of employers' organisations against these quotas for people with disabilities and the corresponding sanctions, but we are a social state and solidarity requires such administrative measures, if otherwise, with voluntary assistance from employers, there is no establishment of work and integration of people with disabilities to an acceptable degree. For the most part, employers in Bulgaria do not want to take people with disabilities because of their frequent absences from work and because of some specific protections they have, all the more so far that such quotas exist in Bulgarian law in the Labour Code, in the current Law on the integration of people with disabilities and certain regulations, but there were absolutely no sanctions and no one respected them. A Monitoring Board shall also be established to carry out activities to promote, protect and monitor the implementation of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and to consult organisations of and for persons with disabilities. Again in principle and as an idea is good, especially when I look at the composition of this council, but as it is written in the Law, I do not imagine how it will work and how it will be administered. The logical question is: don't we seize and duplicate functions? We come to the sick and problematic question: who will represent the disabled? This issue is definitely not solved in this bill. The replacement of the nationally represented organisations of and for people with disabilities, the nationally represented employers' organisations, the nationally represented employees' organisations, I quote The very idea and introduction of national representativeness into consultative bodies is not to introduce restrictions, but to select the most competent and widely represented organisations to support and assist in the formation and implementation of the various policies, in this case for the integration of disabled people, in accordance with the requirements of national and international legal standards. We are adamant from the parliamentary group of the BSP in Bulgaria that all organizations, even individual citizens, should have the opportunity to freely express opinions, to give proposals, to approve or criticise the draft laws and other state documents, to have an unconditional right to receive responses to the opinions and criticisms expressed, but at the same time we are aware that the public importance is expertise, and if you wish the weight of the opinions expressed depends on the number of people who represent the organisation and the experience it has gained in the specific area. National representation as an idea guarantees expertise and should not be replaced lightly, because discussions and compromises that can be achieved between the state and the various participants in the consultations will be greatly hampered. If this were accepted, a question would be raised as a whole about triparty cooperation and national representation. We can talk about easing the performance criteria, but without them it is not serious to talk about anything. Can you imagine that any decision for people with disabilities from now on will be accompanied by the claims of anyone and any small group with specific objectives that do not meet the common interest of disabled persons will create non-profit entities engaged in public benefit activities and claim to have a serious impact on decisions?! Again, I pay attention to you that it is not bad, even if these small groups are required to give opinions, proposals, to ask for answers and so on, but when it comes to making serious decisions in the development and implementation of the policy in the area of integration of people with disabilities, it should be relied on expertise and broad representativeness. I am stopping here and reminding again that the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is going to vote for the law, but in order to become the bill working, there is much more and quite serious work to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u19	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Is there a line to his speech and a 15-minute statement? There are no lines. A second statement was made by Dr Popovski. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u20	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister Petkov! The Group of the United Patriarchs will support this law at first reading. There are several very important new things in it: the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, which was discussed just now, with the status of the Executive Agency at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the new Monitoring Council of nine members, of which two are the Ombudsman's quota, notice, four are from the Commission for Protection against Discrimination, four from the National Representative Organizations of Persons with Disabilities and one from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences [[Replication by National Representative Hassan Ademov]] The National Council for the Integration of Disabled People with the respective Deputy Prime Minister is responsible, so I do not see how greater democracy can be obtained. Several important chapters in this law show its comprehensiveness, individual assessment of the needs of people with disabilities, support for social inclusion of people with disabilities, education, employment, accessible environment and personal mobility, access to justice, registers, information systems and criteria for national representation. We see that in this law there are quite a wide range of things. The old law, we know that since 2005 it has been repaired more than 30 times, so the time for the new law has already come. I would not say that this package of three laws is very entertaining, and because they still had to comply with the National Budget Bill, because even if we had voted them in the middle of the year, they would have entered into force from 1 January 2019 with the new budget. Once again, I confirm our support, timely, real, and wish Minister Petkov success.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u21	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kutev. First line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u22	Mr. Popovski, agreeing in practice with almost everything you said, my remark is that it is not true that they are not delayed because they had to be ready for the budget in 2016, according to the Plan for Integration of Disabled People adopted by the GERB Group in 2012. So they are delayed not for this budget, for two budgets before that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Would you like a douche? Here you go, Dr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u24	My duplicate is that the government of GERB and the United Patriarch for the first time foresee such a serious amount in the budget, which will give one reality the three new laws to enter into force. For front governments that we haven't been involved in, I can't give evaluations. Of course, we are talking about the government of GERB and the United Patriarchs in the current term of the 44th National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u25	Thank you, Dr. Popovski. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u26	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! There is no way to solve the problems of disabled people suddenly with this and the next law, but this is a breath of air for them. It's a huge delay. I doubt that they would be a fact and there would be consensus if power was not on the brink of stability. There is a policy of collision, not reform. It has come to the point that we will change the law not for its better functioning in the name of the people, but for the sake of man, for the price of one post. Social and labour integration and support for people with disabilities is an extremely significant public problem. Unfortunately, he hasn't had an adequate solution for years. Solving these problems requires reasoned, consistent and comprehensive measures in order to have sustainable results. The process of drafting the Draft Law for people with disabilities was intense and intense, as a result of which the shortcomings of the current Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities remained. The main thing is that there will be no systemic change and at least at this stage this will happen in two years. An individual needs assessment has been adopted, but with a very vague status. Employment measures are needed, but only in the part of compulsory employment rates. I don't know why employers are so worried about this, because there is a possibility of a loophole with so-called alternative measures anyway. What does "alternative measures" mean, or are we going to release them from this obligation? The way to prepare the individual assessment is extremely controversial. It is intended to be carried out by the social worker from the Agency for Social Assistance, which must take into account educational, labour opportunities and the need of the disabled person as well as its functional limitations, which goes far beyond the competence of the social worker. They're not educational experts, they're not labor mediators, they're not doctors. They have additional obligations, and given their low pay in the field, I hope that in time there may not be such a specialist as to make this assessment. The reasons for the bill are written as follows: The implementation of the bill will be related to additional costs and administrative resources for building the capacity of the Agency for Social Assistance and the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. Tell me where they are. Additional financial costs are also envisaged, but, as I said, they are very few so far. The creation of two structures with the same target group, with common objectives and somewhat similar activities, is insane. The Agency for Disabilities, Specialized New Body, Monitoring Board, National Council for Persons with Disabilities, District Councils and so on is established. This will create institutional chaos for me. I will end with the positive change, with the introduction of financial support. It also replaces the so-called integration supplements, which until now were a percentage of the guaranteed minimum income, and from 2017 is BGN 75. Despite a significantly better basis for calculating the current financial support, a large part of the people with disabilities, from 50 to 70.99%, will remain with very minimal support because it is 7% of the poverty line. That's £24.36. I think it is very, very much below what is needed for financial support. It is good to think about it and to come up with a mechanism to help people with disabilities who have these percentages from 50 to 70.99 percent. With everything that has been said so far, as my colleague before me has said, we will support the Law, but we need to comment now on the shortcomings, because in the debate between first and second readings there must be constructive dialogue in order to clear the comments and comments on the current draft proposals. I hope that happens. We owe it to the disabled so that after two years they will be lied to again. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u27	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines? There are no lines to her statement. Are there any other statements? Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I would like to begin by congratulating the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and his team, the experts in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the working groups, all those who participated in them, the representatives of the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, the social partners and all those who have gone through multiple discussions have gone through suffering, through protests to get to some decent level of agreement so that the draft law for people with disabilities can be introduced at first reading in plenary. On the importance of the problem that we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to quote some of the scale of the problem by referring to the impact assessment that has been made absolutely professionally to this law for people with disabilities. What's this about? The scope of this law in Bulgaria, on the one hand, the scope and number of people with disabilities on a European scale. Do you know, ladies and gentlemen, that in the European Union, every sixth person has some degree of disability? This makes 80 million European citizens with some degree of damage from 500 million Europe. How are things in Bulgaria? With 50 and over 50% species and degree of disability or permanent loss of performance by July 2018 there are 739 219 people in Bulgaria, of which 27 130 children. The number of those who receive the various forms of monthly support in Bulgaria is 497 000, which means that this problem is extremely serious and it is not a coincidence that the discussion is difficult, went through suffering, went through the extremely persistent and active policy of the ombudsman of the Republic of Maya Manolova, in order to get to the current situation to take the first steps to solve the problems of people with disabilities. What does the new bill offer? I only want to dwell on the most important moments of it. First of all, the project provides for the provision of all measures by a centralised agency. The proposal is from 2021 to be the State Agency of the Council of Ministers. But what happens until then? Most often this question is asked because in practice this project cancels the old Law on the Integration of Disabled People, where the possibility of setting up such an agency is described. Therefore, the social assessment, the individual assessment of the needs until the entry of the new state agency, will be carried out by specialized departments of the Social Assistance Directorate. And now the natural question arises here: the people who will work in these new departments of the Social Assistance Directorate, these specialized groups, whether they will have the opportunity within the two months until the beginning of next year, because the expectations are from the beginning of next year to start the procedure for preparing individual assessments... I am convinced that the team of the Ministry will make efforts to obtain the necessary qualifications, the necessary skills and on the basis of the methodology that will be drawn up by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy from the beginning of the year to start preparing the new individual needs assessment. This is extremely important because people's expectations are compressed and they expect from the beginning of next year, as stated in the law, new financial support. However, in order to reach the new financial support, there must be a structuring of these 147 This is one of the important moments, because if this does not happen, everything else written in the law will remain only written as texts. Next, a cornerstone in this comprehensive discussion on the problems of people with disabilities is the so-called.............................................................................. What should the individual assessment do based on the functional deficit? Because all those who need support to overcome barriers in society in order to achieve the realization of their fundamental rights must go through this social assessment, which, first of all, must assess the possibility of overcoming the functional deficit. Secondly, to provide financial support for overcoming these barriers, because although you already have support to overcome the functional deficit, if you do not have the opportunity, on the basis of your needs, to have support to overcome the barrier of the environment to access, for example, to education, for example, to the labour market, for example, to medical institutions and so on, there is no way to implement fundamental rights of disabled people who are recorded in the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. This is the most important moment of the social assessment, how it will be done, how it will be done, what experts with what qualification, what skills, so that we can, I repeat, make a real individual assessment of needs and then move to the next stage of support to overcome the different barriers in society. I would like to say a few words about the last famous discussion about who should head the National Council for the Integration of Disabled People. Before that, I would like to say that the position of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms on this issue is extremely clear. Why am I making this clear? Because given the current situation surrounding the Deputy Prime Minister, which we are talking about, it is absolutely unacceptable for us now for him to head this institution. But this discussion must continue between first and second readings, because there are different opinions on this issue. Assuming that the policy for people with disabilities is a horizontal policy and engages many policies, the question we need to ask ourselves is whether a minister, whoever he is, whether the Minister of Labour or someone else can implement coordination between the different sectoral policies. And this is the important question that importers have answered, of course, in another conjunctual environment. Next, I would like to say a few words about the types of support, this is extremely important. The colleagues said just now that it was about a new type of financial support, which, depending on the individual assessment, will actually be provided depending on the degree of damage between 7% and 57%, and in digital terms this means BGN 24.36. And BGN 198,36. This is significantly more than the so-called integration supplements, which were related to the guaranteed minimum income, although BGN 75. From this year as sums, you can see that it is not enough. For the first time the financial support is linked in all social policy, the first commitment to the poverty line, which next year is BGN 348, is here in this law. First, we are talking about monthly financial support and various types of targeted aid according to the type of damage. And when I say targeted aid, I would like to draw attention here to the fact that from 1 January 2020, as of next year, the Ministry of Health will propose a mechanism for supporting technical devices, facilities and medical devices to people with disabilities not to be granted by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but to develop a mechanism based on standardization of technical assistance by the Ministry of Health. That is, by the end of next year, the mechanism will remain the same as it is until now, signed in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, and as of next year, the Ministry of Health is committed to newer standards, hopefully by then there will be standards to implement support from the point of view of targeted aid, according to the type of damage. I would also like to say a few words about the notorious quota principle. Should there be a quota principle or not? Employers in Bulgaria, employers' organizations jointly jumped against this quota principle. Some even cited previous versions of the Law, in which there were other digital expressions. In the latter version, which has been adopted, it is not about micro-enterprises, it is not about small enterprises, it is about the quota principle of those who are over 50 workers and employees, from 50 to 59 there are two people, but more than 100 are 2% of the numerical composition. The great fear is the so-called compensation fee, a compensation contribution. If you don't meet those quotas we're talking about, you have to pay 30% of the minimum wage for anyone who's not busy. Ladies and gentlemen, in this House we have accepted the criminalisation of the deliberate non-payment of social security contributions and taxes a few years ago. Do you want me to tell you that no one has been convicted so far? Thus, our employer can adapt and carry out the legal orders as they are scheduled. So this is a preventive measure, and I am convinced that no one will pay the so-called compensation contribution, even more so, that there are alternative measures envisaged. Only, honourable Minister, perhaps the Law should write an additional text to refer to the Rules and to a regulation where they are correctly defined, after consulting the social partners and mostly employers, these options for alternative measures. What can they be? For example, if you cannot meet these quotas for various reasons, you know that if production does not allow the hiring of such people, if, in small settlements, employment offices or public employment agencies cannot offer people with disabilities, then there is an opportunity for alternative measures, which, I repeat, must be described in regulations, after consulting employers' organisations, in order to overcome those fears that we are talking about. But the quota principle is very important, it is the cause of people with disabilities, and that is why I think, as is the practice in some European countries, that this quota should be included in the proposed law. I would just like to say a few words about the new form of "Protected employment" because it is extremely important and it is about people with disabilities. This form of "Protected employment" is proposed to be as affiliates and as centres for "Protective employment" to specialized enterprises and cooperatives. This is extremely important because these people also need to realize their residual workability in order to be able to have work incomes so as not to burden the social system further in the country. The dignity of these people is that they want to have income from work, not to rely solely on the support of the state. This is very important and must be appreciated. Next, several national programmes are envisaged at the place of the original funds, which were challenged by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u29	The weather, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u30	The two funds that are the National Program, actually...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u31	Please extend the time of all groups.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u32	The new type is the National Programme for the Support of Employers, notice, in addition to the fact that there are quotas, for the implementation of quotas, employers are given the opportunity to participate in programmes and encouraging measures to help them adapt jobs, to create job opportunities for disabled people, on the one hand, and, on the other hand, to give them access to jobs, because it is extremely important for them to overcome barriers, as I said earlier. So employers have the opportunity to take advantage of incentive measures both under the Employment Promotion Act and under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" and under the National Employment Action Plan, where there are separate schemes to support employers. So, honourable employers in the Republic of Bulgaria, do not worry about this quota! It is part of your solidarity with people with disabilities. Next, for the first time, a change to the Social Security Code is envisaged. The mothers of children with disabilities and of adults, of disabled persons who are caring throughout life for children who need additional support, of foreign assistance, for the first time during which they have raised these children or persons, will be recognised as an internship, the so-called gift service. It's a step in the right direction. I am convinced that it will be appreciated by people with disabilities. A few words about the information system in the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, which was the subject of discussions during the lengthy debates for a long time. Dear colleagues, the information system is extremely important, there is such an information system in the Agency for people with disabilities, but it must be upgraded and include characteristics of the profile of the disabled person. There must be public access to this register, including those with disabilities. On the basis of this register, it must enable policy structuring, special policies for people with disabilities. I'm pretty sure this thing could happen. Finally, I conclude, a few words about the criteria for national representation, which were also the subject of long discussions. Some of the criteria for national representativeness of people with disabilities are sufficiently relieved, but for the first time, other non-national representative organisations are also allowed to apply for different forms of support for people with disabilities. I will not dwell on the financial framework, it has been specified. It is clear that within 133 million are written the texts that are in the Law on Persons with Disabilities. Before I finish, I want to say something that, let's not sound like a cliche, but there is a second reading ahead of us, working groups ahead, the main job ahead. Firstly, this law does not solve all the problems of people with disabilities, but makes important first major steps to solve the problem of people with disabilities. Secondly, the important principle of nothing for disabled people without disabilities should be a guiding principle. And the last thing I'm graduating with. Ladies and gentlemen, today is Dimitrovden. Congratulations to all names! And let this day be the beginning of the new change to reform policies for people with disabilities. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u33	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines to his statement? I can't see. Are there any other statements? Mrs. Klisurska - come in, then we will continue with the other speeches.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u34	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Policies for people with disabilities are horizontal policies. They are of great public importance, and the goal that we are trying to achieve today with this bill is to provide a guarantee and support not only for the disabled but also for their families. Our parliamentary group appreciates the efforts of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the working groups, so that today the bill can be dealt with in this plenary session. I will mention the good things of the proposed Bill for people with disabilities, but I will not spare criticism, even though much of them were shared earlier. They are not criticisms, but concerns as far as all that is written in the current text of the Law on Persons with Disabilities will actually be feasible. On the one hand, our parliamentary group is very pleased that the policy focus on people with disabilities is no longer on the basis of the guaranteed minimum income, but is the poverty threshold. The request in which we talk about the problems of people with disabilities and the policies in this direction was put not only during the protests, but is our proposal in the long debates that were ahead this year and a half. The positive thing that is currently happening with this bill is that those who have taken care of people with disabilities and have not had the opportunity to work, their insurance service will be recognised. The introduced quotas for employers in the proposed Bill are a positive thing. Last but not least, the individual needs assessment, which is the basis of this bill and is in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. But so much for the positive. There are things that are extremely disturbing. I hope that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will come into shape within the next two months and that the hopes it imposes with this bill will actually happen. One of our concerns is that at the moment, some 133 million are in the financial justification of the bill. lv. Some say 150, but how will this happen and how can a final limit be given to the required amount when an individual needs assessment will be carried out? I am convinced that the resource will far exceed the amount requested and my concerns are linked to the fact that the amount thus placed will in no way secure the activities under this bill and the next one that we will accept as item two of today's agenda. I am afraid that when we talk about an individual needs assessment, a person with the same degree of disability will not get the same levelling in terms of individual assessment, because the individual needs assessment is really related to the personal resource, what the individual person is. On the one hand, if we see the provisions of the Law on Persons with Disabilities, which formulate the financial support, it is formulated in the Law, it is given on the basis of a degree of disability. I apologize very much, where is the individual needs assessment and how do they correspond? On the other hand, we are talking that specialized configurations will be created at the Social Assistance Directorates at the moment. Within these two months, these specialized configurations, based on a methodology to be prepared by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, must be trained and begin to carry out the individual assessment of the needs from the beginning of next year. How are things going to happen? I will give you one of my personal concerns: in 2016 the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy won a project under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development" - the idea of which is to introduce the so-called international health standards for the expertise of workability. We are now the end of 2018 and are still exploring the experience of two countries, let alone getting to licensing these standards, which could in any way be laid down in this bill. Yeah, but no! In three years, that's all! I sincerely hope and will stop here, this methodology, which will be prepared, will be operational and will not burst the balloon at the beginning of the year. My concern is related to the qualification of staff in the Social Assistance Directorates, and how will these 147 directorates be reorganised at the moment with the relevant staff, knowing on the one hand that they need further training and, on the other hand, the material base of the Social Assistance Directorates is currently in poor condition? I have a huge concern about how these specialized groups will be organised and how positive their effectiveness will be to carry out the individual needs assessment, Otherwise, we welcome what we will now accept at first reading. We have our remarks and will make them during the debates between first and second readings. I hope, as we are adopting the Bill today, that in two months' time we also congratulate ourselves on its effective realization, which I have said I have many concerns that, to a large extent, hinder our positive attitude that things will actually happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Panchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The reason to take the floor, Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, is one of Dr. Ademov's sentences. He said the discussion went through a lot of suffering. These years of transition, honourable Members, have gone through many sufferings for the people and their loved ones who needed them. We the Bulgarian politicians, the MPs, are in debt to these people, to their relatives and relatives. This state is not to blame today for the ruling parties, but all parties, which in the years of the transition, could have made it necessary that people in need live at least a little more decently. I think it's time we apologize to these people because we're part of the culprits for their suffering. At the same time, let us apologize to the people who stood in Sofia for months, in the big cities of the province and organized strikes, rallies with the desire to sit in this hall and solve the problems our compatriots need, for the people who are disabled. I would like to congratulate the government and Minister Petkov, who worked actively during these few months to implement this law, which we are discussing today. To support colleagues from both the left and the right, who said they would vote on these changes, which I hope will give a better opportunity to the people and their loved ones who need to live in a more social, European country, as Bulgaria has been for 11 years. I'm sure there are gaps and more things that he needs, but most importantly, I want people who are still on the street who are waiting for a significant increase in funds from next year for the people who need it, for their personal assistants, for their loved ones. I believe that to a certain extent this will calm our compatriots and we will be able to look more calmly at the budget during the month that is coming. The money is insufficient, but I believe it will be a good start. I would like, honourable Members, to propose that we extend the time to run out of these two points, as the time that enables us to look at the first two points on today's agenda is another 20 minutes. [[GERB lines]] . I'm sorry, I'm late, and I didn't know it was voted because the speeches continued, and there is a real need to vote on the two projects, and between first and second readings, the comments that fellow Members have to be discussed, adopted and put into the new laws. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u37	Thank you, dear Mr. Panchev. Any other speeches? You have the floor to speak, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u38	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today, we have a bill on people with disabilities which is an important topic that has been in the public focus for the past few months and is part of the government's commitments. The emotional approach is inevitable when we talk about the rights of people with disabilities. If you think about it, each one of us in this room has a loved one with physical or mental problems, and that makes us all empathetic to this subject. There's hardly anyone in this room who doesn't want to provide maximum living conditions for disabled people. For months over 100 experts, representatives of non-governmental organizations of and for people with disabilities, trade unions, employers worked on a draft new Law on people with disabilities, subsequently included the Ombudsman Maya Manolova, and, at our request, the parliamentary group, representatives of the protesting mothers of children with disabilities. The work on the Bill, as was said here in the Chamber, was not easy. This bill has come a difficult way. Over the course of months, many hours of workshops, public discussions, some of which were medialy reflected, were held. There were worried, dissatisfied, there was tension. There was speculation that, you see, the government didn't want to have a new law on people with disabilities. There has been speculation that we will not be able to cope and the bill for people with disabilities will not be adopted before next year's budget. I said that work is extremely difficult because, colleagues, this matter is extremely difficult. It requires very serious and hard work. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy faced a difficult situation, namely to balance between the interests of the various national representative organisations of people with disabilities and the demands of protesting mothers and children with disabilities. It was necessary to find a reasonable compromise and at the same time meet the expectations of protesting mothers, people with disabilities in general. I would like to emphasise that the Law on Disabled Persons is for all disabled people who, according to the Agency's statistics, are over 750 thousand. Today the bill is a fact and we are discussing it in plenary, within the real deadlines that the Minister of Labour and Social Policy gave. Fact is the signed policy action plan for people with disabilities, which was supported by the signatures of the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, the Ombudsman Maya Manolova, the national representative organisations of and for people with disabilities and representatives of the protesting mothers of children with disabilities. I would like to stress that the government does not run away from its commitments to people with disabilities. The policy for disabled people has always been the priority of the government. This mandate lays down measures in the management programme relating to the improvement of legislation. Attention is also due to the fact that, with the support of Prime Minister Boyko Borisov, the government provided 150 million. lv. additionally in Budget 2019 of the Social Ministry for Policy for the People with Disabilities. This is close by 56% more than the budget for people with disabilities this year! In May, when the parliamentary group of GERB initiated a meeting of the protesting mothers of children with disabilities with the national representative organizations and with the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, a decision was taken to draft a new law on people with disabilities, which should reflect the changes in public development and, above all, to meet the expectations of society for change in this area. The aim of the Law is to propose a comprehensive new legal framework for the settlement of public relations relating to guaranteeing the rights of disabled people in order to be able to lead a decent way of life, to protect their human dignity by applying an individual approach and assessing their needs. There needs to be a reform of the policies for disabled people as a result of the mature need to reform the system. The current model is not effective enough to assess the individual needs of disabled people and its improvement is necessary. The existing social assessment needs to be replaced by a new type assessment to achieve a differentiated approach to ensuring independent lives for disabled persons. The Humans Bill has specific actions to comply with the social assessment of disabled people with their specific needs and needs for training, employment, realization and social inclusion. Another important point in the Draft Law is the provision by the State of adequate socio-economic support for people with disabilities, through which they can be fully integrated into society and lead an independent life. The new mechanism will be based on clear criteria. The aim is to ensure the maximum, effective use of all the means given to the policies for people with disabilities and, most importantly, to say that the individual approach for assessing and solving problems will be followed. It is important to note that in the process of broad public discussion on the nature of the reform of the policy for the integration of people with disabilities, a dominant part of the proposals for the integration of people with disabilities, made by the protesting mothers of children with disabilities, found their place in this bill. I will only mark the specific proposals: the Agency for Disabled Persons to be transformed into the State Agency for Disabled People as a new structure at the Council of Ministers with regional structures; the application of an individual approach in assessing the needs of each disabled person with a view to providing adequate support, and the individual assessment will be leading. The individual needs assessment, the assessment of the number of hours of personal assistance and the need to use another social service is envisaged to be prepared according to an established methodology. Other proposals from protesting mothers are: regulation of the right to personal assistance of disabled persons according to their individual needs; the terms, conditions and scope of use of personal assistance will be governed by the Personal Aid Act; the establishment of a Monitoring Board to carry out promotion and protection activities under the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities; the transfer of funding of assistance, gadgets, facilities, medical devices for people with disabilities to the health system; the establishment of an information system that contains a profile of each person with permanent disability with the possibility of individual access to personal data for the person by means of identification under the Law on Electronic Identification; the change of the criteria for representativeness and their regulation at legal level; the provision of an opportunity for each organisation of disabled persons to be able to apply for project funding under the programmes with national and European funding aimed at disabled persons; the granting of monthly financial support for disabled persons with disabilities to enter into force from 1 January 2019. Once again, honourable Members, I would like to emphasise that all these listed proposals belong to the protesting mothers of disabled children who have found a place in the bill for people with disabilities. I just want to mark briefly some important points of the Bill, and at the legal level it is envisaged to define the specific types of support. There are two components: the first component is monthly financial support, which will depend on the degree of damage and the amount will be determined depending on the poverty line for the year concerned; the second component will be targeted aid according to the type of damage. Very controversial was the text regarding the quota principle we are about the quota principle for employment of disabled people. And now there is one operating in the public administration because employment in a real working environment is the fastest socialization of disabled people. Attention should also be paid to the fact that the Bill regulates a new form of employment. They can be created to specialized enterprises and cooperatives of disabled people in support of their employment. An opportunity is created to finance a project principle of activities for building an accessible environment in order to remove existing barriers and support the mobility of people with disabilities under the National Programme for affordable housing and personal mobility. My fellow Members, I would also like to say a few words regarding the peppery subject of two days who will head the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. Dear colleagues, there is no drama. We are at the first reading of the Law on People with Disabilities and until the entry into force of the Law President of the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities is the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. We, from the parliamentary group of GERB, will make a proposal between first and second reading the Minister of Labour and Social Policy to continue leading the National Council for the Integration of Disabilities. We believe that the daily operational work of the Minister is to respect all policies, including the policy for people with disabilities. I appeal to all Members of the National Assembly to support the bill for people with disabilities, guided by the belief that this project has achieved the best possible and balanced solution in the direction of changing the policies for people with disabilities. None of us, colleagues, have the benefit of opposition, tension, signaling to society that because of political differences, the real goal is ignored, namely: people with disabilities to live fully, they, their families to feel the support of the state and of all of us. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u39	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u40	Dear colleagues, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear Mrs. Angelova, I did not take the floor for a reply because in the context of the speech I can do the same and not take the floor twice, but the the thesis that there is no drama with who will lead the Council, to tell you, is not true. Drama! The person who should have done it under the new law is absolutely inappropriate for this place. Drama! Valeri Simeonov cannot head it, nor can he be deputy prime minister after all he has done, so your idea is profoundly wrong. There's drama, she's serious, you've chosen a completely inappropriate person for a position where he doesn't have a place. Think about the drama. This relates to another of your claims that policies for people with disabilities have always been a priority of the government. By the way, it became a priority thanks to those women upstairs who actually forced you to do it. If you read the Plan for the Integration of Disabled People, and this is what you adopted in 2012, you will see that this is not the case at all, because besides the Ministry of Labour I do not know which other ministry has fulfilled its commitments, which are recorded in the Plan with date 2017, and it expired. I've already asked them what they've done and some of the ministries have told me that they don't actually have commitments to this plan. So your thesis on how the government made it a priority is not, and the people have made it a priority, the protests have made it a priority. Your government, as far as you can, has complied, but far from always on time and far from always on the spot. I'll start by saying that these aren't speculations, that's the pure truth that you need to give yourself a sufficiently clear account of. We're moving on to the Law. The law solves many problems, solves a serious part of the problems of people with disabilities, and they are all recorded repeatedly in the demands of the people with disabilities who made seven, eight and more national protests. Thanks to their national protests, this has become a priority. I can't help but say that the Ministry of Labour has made efforts that have fulfilled a serious part of the commitments. I really thank the Minister because he had real work that was done. At the same time, the objective of the Law, of the protests and of everything we do is actually ratification of the Protocol to the UN Convention. The protocol has not been ratified, the Convention for Bulgaria has not entered into force, which means that people with disabilities cannot prosecute the state, because the state has not officially taken over its commitments yet. With the Bill, we are moving much towards ratification of the Protocol, but it is far from complete. There's more. It fills 50. 60% of what the state had to do, written in the 2012 Plan, which is not finished. The government says this is a priority, so you still have to start this job, if you're going to be a government at all later, which I doubt. I'd definitely like to draw attention to something important. This bill would not have been a fact if, for the first time in my opinion, at least within this National Assembly, we had synergies between civil organisations, actions of the opposition and actions of the government, rather respectfully of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, because it does not include the whole government. I would like to point out to you that this is, in my opinion, a unique historical bill in this regard, because in practice, civil pressure has worked through opposition efforts to bring about changes in governance. Again, my congratulations to the Minister of Labour, who has done a lot of work in the meantime. Including civil pressure has led to it, asking now the resignation of a deputy prime minister to protect the Minister of Labour when he was practically fired by the government. Civil pressure had all its dimensions during that time. He was consistent and meaningful. I want you to realize that if it wasn't for this civil pressure, this result wouldn't be there. These same people who are currently protesting out front, do not try in any way to Satanize them, do not try in every way to make it seem that they are a handful of people who, you see, want to take from the bread of the pensioners. The same people forced the National Assembly in practice to adopt this legislation. If it wasn't for their strong, aggressive and consistent presence, practically all of this wouldn't have happened. I conclude with the idea that between first and second reading we will, of course, make our proposals for changes. The law is good, it will work, I said not all. However, I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that this is a sign: this bill and its adoption is a sign that this Parliament is, after all, divisive. We haven't given many of these signs, that's the good sign.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u41	Mr. Kutev, you don't say otherwise, do you?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u42	I'm saying what I said.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u43	I mean, you say otherwise, but right now... You have the floor for a line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u44	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, Dear Mr. Minister, Dear Protestant Bulgarian citizens! I think that the debate to this statement by colleague Kutev, generally, although loaded with very unnecessary phraseology, was going culturally and quite well, although a little slowly. I took the liberty of taking a line because of this. The colleague Kutev says we should look at the conventions and the accession of Bulgaria to the conventions. Colleague Kutev, I insist that you imagine that you are speaking here not in front of this Chamber of National Assembly, not in front of Mr. Gokov, but in front of Mrs. Maslarova or Sergey Stanishev. I want you to say all these statements and demands, imagining you're speaking to them. I would also like to say that the claim of cases against Bulgaria due to lack or accession to the conventions is too far-fetched and extremely false. However, speaking of conventions, I would say the following: colleague Kutev, exploitation of suffering is a crime in all conventions that treat the rights of the individual [[Applause from GERB]] , in all aspects. So please, if you want a result, do not overexpose, stay on the basis of constructive, sensible dialogue. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u45	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Any other lines? You have the floor for the second line, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u46	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kutev, I take the floor because you were absolutely incorrect about the criticisms you made. You've broken the right tone, as my colleague Danail Kirilov said. It is not true that the policy for disabled people is not a priority of this government. She's been like this, and she's always been. If we look at the data and figures when you managed in the period 2013 - 2014, the policy funds for people with disabilities were 180 million. lv. This year, policy funds for people with disabilities have been increased by 86 million. For the following year, it increased by 56%. That's 150 million. lv. Next year, there will be 420 million in the Social Ministry budget. lv. policies for people with disabilities. [[Applause from GERB.]] This is the commitment of the political party GERB. We are responsible, we keep our commitments, and we will continue. We will not allow you to politicize this problem and this Law for people with disabilities, as you normally do. The policy for people with disabilities is not just for you, the policy is for everyone! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Third line? I won't. You have the floor for the back, Mr. Kutev. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u48	Colleagues, I would like to assure you that the Komsomol pathos that have been going on so far do not touch me at all. Believe me, Komsomol pathos I've seen a lot in my life, more than you certainly have, although many of you are carriers of Komsomol pathos more than I am in biography. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] About the money you gave. Mrs. Angelova, you didn't learn: money is not the thing! It might be the most important thing to you. Some of you might buy it with money. We're not talking about money here. From the very beginning of the protests of people with disabilities until now, it has been said all the time that money is not the most important thing that is important is the reform that has not been made and that it is important to take concrete steps with regard to reform. If there is something meaningful about the Law we are discussing today, it is that it is not about money. It's about money in the budget. The Law we are discussing today is not about money, it is about policies. If we're going to vote for this law, it's not about the money you haven't understood yet, it's about the policies you slept through, by the way, personally! If the Ministry does a lot of work, your parliamentary group and especially those who work in the Social Commission of GERB, you did not do the job. That was your job years ago, not now! If the Minister is a minister from a year and a half ago, you are a member of the past National Assembly. Even then you should have done it, I stress again: according to your own plan, the plan that you have adopted. It was the government's priority. I say to you again: You have not read the plan you have adopted, Mrs. Angelova! This plan clearly records the activities that six ministries have to carry out by the end of 2017, if I remember correctly. I've already explained it in the committees. I sent letters to all six ministries at the end of 2017 personally to ask them: "You know what you did according to the plan? "Much of them answered me with the same blank answer that meant nothing. One of the ministries told me there were no commitments to the plan. That's your priority?! Is this a priority for the Ministry, which does not know that there is a commitment under the Plan for the Integration of Disabled People?! Read the document, it is in the Commission. And the last: in terms of exploitation of suffering. Mr. Kirilov, a guilty conscience, a guilty conscience is what's after you! There's a reason to chase after your guilty conscience, yes. I didn't do anything with the suffering. Get on my Facebook and see for a year and a half what I've done in this time. [[Relations from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Don't stare at me, I remember you as a municipal councillor from GERB, from BSP before that. I remember you as an activist of the Lozenets district. I've done a lot of work during this time, you didn't! Show me in person what you've done for the disabled! I did my job. You must feel guilty. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria. Noise and lines by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u49	It's demagoguery.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u50	Are there any other statements? Mr. Tsvetanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u51	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I will stick to what was said by Daniel Kirilov. I thank my colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party who spoke before my colleague Kutev because the debate was actually going very constructively. This must be the behavior that we all need to have in the 44th Parliament! Regardless of our political contradictions, we must find a consensus that enables us to be much more productive. Thank you for the high grade that has been given and for the efforts made by the Social Ministry and the working groups that have been working so far. However, I was provoked to make this statement now because my colleague Kutev once again said that there was no point in money, and he needed policies. Since the mothers of disabled children are also here, I just want to share the following. To thank them for the dialogue and for actually making communication with the Social Ministry working and with the teams that worked. Dear Mr. Kutev, because you personally affected the people's representative Svetlana Angelova for her sleepover or lack of hibernation, just to tell you that the efforts made by the government and everyone who participated in order to reach consensus and be able to enter into the Bulgarian Parliament, and the commitment made by the ruling majority, by the opposition, by the Ministry, is that the bills should be adopted at first reading and that we can complete these bills by mid-December and be financially secured. Just so you know, Mr. Kutev, you may not have been informed, but I will show you the Action Plan with corresponding steps scheduled and with the signatures of those who participated in the process of the last rights: Vladislav Goranov, Biser Petkov, Maya Manolova, Vera Ivanova and Adriana Stoimenova. In this Action Plan, there is also the exact financial support that the government guarantees will be provided. Mr. Kutev, we're talking 150 million here. BGN, which are part of this policy. It can be done when there is really the funding needed, because we know that every reform requires financial resources. When the country is stable and we can afford to provide funding, why not be supported by you, Mr. Kutev, despite the blackness you have, smelling constant hatred from the parliamentary platform? Be more positive once, be more constructive, because the mothers of disabled children are here to see that this Parliament can actually vote on something that will unite everyone. Let us not mention that this is a policy that makes it only one political force, but makes it the 44th National Assembly and all MPs sent by Bulgarian citizens. [[Applause from GERB.]] Please stop bringing only hatred and tension to the Bulgarian Parliament. Do it somewhere else. Maybe you have some personal problems. Each of us has personal problems, but no one wants to express them by going out on the parliamentary stand, and to abuse our rights as an MP who gives him the National Assembly. I thank everyone who participated. And thank you to Daniel Kirilov for the line he made. My request to BSP is: in order to have a good result in the Bulgarian Parliament, sometimes it is necessary for Mr. Kutev not to speak so that things can go much better. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB. Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor for a personal explanation, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u53	Stop explaining yourself. Let's do some work!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u54	You're right, Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Kirilov and Mrs. Angelova did not ask, but Mr. Kutev is in his right and I am obliged to give him the opportunity. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u55	Mr. Tsvetanov, I, of course, may not speak. Regarding whether or not I have the right to speak, I will tell you something else: I do not know whether I am the person who spoils parliamentaryism because I have no problems with property. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] I have no problem with the sentences in Strasbourg. If we're going to talk about parliamentaryism, let's be clear, you have money to pay back to the state. According to your property statement you have enough money to return it, because the cases that have been won by people in Strasbourg due to your mistakes are many. [[Noise and banging on banks from GERB.]] Why are you banging? Return the money! You owe the state money. [[Noise and lines.]] Regarding whether or not I have the right to speak, I have done many things about what happened to this law. I've done my job as an opposition man.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u56	Mr. Kutev, let's keep a good voice!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u57	I'm not convinced that any of those who scream that Mr. Kirilov, that you, that either one of you, have finished so much. I have a clear conscience about what happened. [[Noise and lines.]] I call on you, after you return the money, to try to formulate at least four more key problems in the country, because there is much more, and to do something about their resolution before people go out to protest against you before you are pressured and before being forced by civil disobedience, because I was here and helping with the process with my conscience, and you are doing it under pressure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u58	Mr. Rashidov's manner of conduct. Just please, I can see that you're emotional, we've messed up this law enough not to put emotion into it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u59	Dear Minister! Colleagues, I appeal to you: we have once again turned Parliament into a place where we can get dirty and without doing any real work. From this tribune I said: do not play with people's fates and diseases! It's not just the mothers who are here. There are many more mothers and sick children in Bulgaria. As far as you're concerned that these are some kind of thieves, and we're dealing with it, you're also being said to have a sock factory. Is that what we're supposed to talk about in front of these mothers who are excited today? [[Applause from GERB.]] Because not everything is money, but everything is Phoenician signs. These people want drugs, they want to buy cheese, they want conditions for these kids to grow up in. And they grow up in difficult conditions. And we're dealing with personal attacks! You're like the soloist of Philip Kutev there's no voice, your voice is heard. Whatever you don't blame people for.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u60	I'm taking it the way it is.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u61	Please very much do not allow this from this tribune when there is a very serious topic. This is no place for personal assaults and party politics. Again, let's not have fun with people's pain. [[Voices from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Don't shout like that, but rather decide the fate of these people! Thanks. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u62	Mr. Tsvetanov, you have the floor for a personal explanation. [[Heckling]] Colleagues, you're right! We crossed a line once. Mr. Tsvetanov. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's not a personal explanation, it's a way of keeping it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! When taking the floor for a personal explanation or a reply, let us stick to the political arguments and policies for which we are leading the debate! However, when someone has no political motives, he goes to personal attacks. This is the essence of BSP and that is why BSP are in this state. [[Applause from GERB.]] Mr. Chairman, in the manner of conduct, [[shouts from "BSP" for Bulgaria.]] I just want to say that when people were being abducted in Bulgaria, he managed BSP; when there were contract killings and did not reveal himself, he managed BSP. I managed to do this with the team I worked with and with the Ministry of Interior. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u64	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. I think with this, we could... Here you are. You have the floor, Mrs. Ninova. For a statement, right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u65	Yes, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Tsvetanov, while you were talking about a language of hatred and suggesting that it was broadcast by BSP, you made another contribution to the destruction of statehood in Bulgaria after you told the MP in the case of colleague Kutev, but this is a principle question of whether or not it can be expressed. [[GERB lines.]] This is the Bulgarian Parliament! All MPs here are sent by the choice of the Bulgarian people. You are neither you personally nor Party GERB the one that will say who will speak and who will not. The issue of sentences is political or personal, to any of us, another blow to the Bulgarian statehood and therefore parliamentaryism has the lowest rating in Bulgaria. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u66	That's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u67	Secondly, you claim that we should talk about policies, about consensus and refer to the facts. Let us remember them: you are saying that BSP has done nothing and the government and the majority, you see, has given everything in this matter to people with disabilities. Let's remember how it all started and how it is now: it started with the expulsion of the mothers from parliament by Mr. Emil Hristov because they were wearing inscriptions. We voted here for a reason because you have shown your attitude towards these people. How'd it go? Five months in tents, and the government and the majority closed their eyes. How's he doing now? These people, these mothers and their children are in front of the Council of Ministers every day. Is that the job you've done?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u68	Better than you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u69	We don't give you an assessment. They give it to you when they are there every day under the windows of the Council of Ministers. This means either unfinished work or an attitude shown to them. And if today we are all trying to start a reform and to do our job, then in relation to the second you have indebted them with regard to what you have done to them. Valeri Simeonov did it, and you supported him to save your power and your posts. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let the bills go! You have our support, and we are going to vote in favour, because we have worked on these bills, but for the debt you have to them, the responsibility remains with you because, in order to save yourself, again I say, the power and the posts, you have shown a humiliating and inhuman attitude towards these people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u70	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u71	Today to fight in the chest that you understand the problem and seek consensus until there is a resignation of Valeri Simeonov, you will have no consensus...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u72	Finish your statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u73	...about the treatment of mothers, children and people with disabilities. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u74	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov. The way you're leading it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u75	Mr. Chairman, you are entitled to a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u76	Mr. Lazarov, just a moment. I have a right because... No, I'm not asking for a personal explanation, even though I have really good reason to ask for it. [[speaking indistinctly]] Because we've had enough of this bill. I don't think the people who are here expected this from us. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u77	Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Chairman, it is good for you to ask the administration to remove the protocols from the Social Committee, say, from 2013. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Mrs. Nino was the chairman. There's interesting stuff there. I've read them. There are interesting things about what was seen, what wasn't seen. To be familiar with the MPs, because when someone has developed some of these, it is good to see what they have done before and what they have said. This is my request, Mr. Chairman. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u78	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. I agree with you. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Axieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u79	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Dear colleagues, I can't believe what I'm hearing and what I'm seeing! The two bills have finally entered the Chamber and you are once again turning everything into a circus. Instead of focusing and starting to work, going faster, who has suggestions to give them between first and second reading and actually solve the problems of people who have been waiting for nearly 30 years, you are once again turning this into a circus. And then, what do people think of us? [[Applause.]] I beg you, let's focus on work, not waste time on things that happened 20 or 30 years ago! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Axieva. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I hope not. I'm closing the debate. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear Minister, do you want the floor? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u81	Dear Madam Chairman, Mr Chairman! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I take the floor to thank you for the debate and for the support, in principle, of the bill for people with disabilities. The adoption of this law for people with disabilities is the first step towards a positive change for them that we all want and they expect. I say the first step, because the next steps are: the Personal Aid Bill and the Social Services Bill, which in a package should solve a large part of the problems of people with disabilities. I would like to point out that the adoption of a Law on Disabled Persons is a response to one of the UN Committee's main recommendations on the rights of disabled people on the protection of the first report of the implementation of the Convention of Bulgaria, namely Bulgaria adopting a new law on disabled people, in accordance with the principles of the Convention on the Rights of Disabled Persons, which will become a framework for establishing sectoral legislation to guarantee the rights of disabled people in all areas of life. I would like, from this high tribune, to thank all the participants in the working group who have not spared strength and time in the last few months to prepare this difficult bill. Some shortcomings of the bill were mentioned in the speeches. It is certainly not perfect, but I think that the discussion between the two readings of the Bill will enable some of these shortcomings to be corrected. Thank you again. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u82	Thank you, dear Minister. Colleagues, I am putting to the first vote the bill for people with disabilities, No 802-01-41, tabled by the Council of Ministers. Vote: 174 MPs: for " 174," against and abstention there is no. [[Applause.]] The bill was passed at first reading. Moving on to the next point of the program: FIRST VOICE OF PERSONAL AID LAW PROJECTS. They are: the People's Representative Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs, and the People's Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Here you are, Dr. Ademov, to present the report of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs and guests! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Personal Aid Bill, No 854-01-62, submitted by Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs on 2 July 2018, and on the Personal Aid Bill No 854-01-64, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 4 July 2018. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy at a regular meeting held on 24 October 2018, examined and discussed the Personal Aid Bill with importer Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs and the Personal Assistance Bill with importer Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mincho Koralski, Executive Director of the Agency for Persons with Disabilities, Eleonora Pachedjieva, Director of the Directorate of the Disabilities, Equal Opportunities and Social Aids, Lyubomira Yazadjieva, Director of the Directorate of the National Insurance Institute, Maya Manolova, Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Administration of the Ombudsman, Hüseyin Ismail and Ivan Delchev, as well as representatives of the protesting mothers, employers' and trade unions, representatives of the National Council for the Integration of Persons with Disabilities, representatives of organizations of people and children with disabilities. The draft of the MPs from the Parliamentary Group of Volja. was presented by the National Representative Albena Naydenova. In her speech, she stressed that the proposed project aims to provide adequate personal assistance to assist disabled people to exercise their fundamental rights, to lead an independent life, to have free access to various services and activities. The project proposes a mechanism for providing personal assistance to ensure its sustainability and funding based on individual needs assessment and uniform criteria for inclusion in this mechanism. It enables users of a personal assistant to choose who he is and to determine when and how this service will be provided to them, i.e. the user of personal assistance participates in the choice of assistants who may be more than one, depending on his needs. The draft law regulates the authorities for the provision of personal assistance with detailed powers of application of the mechanism. It also includes provisions regulating the control of the implementation of the Law, accounting for the funds spent, as well as aided persons. An obligation to analyse and assess the objectives achieved when providing personal aid is also envisaged. Ms. Naydenova stressed that in the last 4 months after the bill was submitted many things have happened in the direction of negotiating conditions and mutual concessions for solving the problems of people with disabilities. On 9 October 2018, an agreement was signed in the form of a Action Plan for the adoption of legislation for people with disabilities between the executive power, the Ombudsman, the representatives of the initiative "The System kills" and the nationally represented organisations of people with disabilities. An additional 150 million BGN are agreed in the budget for policies for people with disabilities, i.e. the circumstances, the framework in which this bill will be dealt with has changed. Therefore, the importers of the Bill consider that the commitment of all MPs is to consider the details of the proposed bill and the proposals between first and second reading to be able to create a working legal instrument, crucial to the undisputed need of personal assistance. The draft of the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria was presented by the National Representative Anton Kutev. He said this is a familiar bill, has been discussed repeatedly, including in the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee in July. The bill contains many controversial points and shortcomings, such as the interaction between the Bill and the Labour Code, the financing and administration of the activities provided for by the Bill, the calculation of the hourly rate and others. Mr. Kutev's personal opinion is that it would be better to refer personal assistance to the package of social services, which will soon be discussed at the legal level. The importers hope that the bill will receive support in the period between the two readings to overcome the points at issue. After Mrs. Naydenova and Mr. Kutev presented, the Ombudsman also asked Mrs. Manolova, who recalled that she was the first importer of the Bill in June this year. The same bill later, in July, was recognized by the parliamentary groups of Volja. She recalled the main positions of the Bill referred to in the reasons for it. The bill states that assistant services are vital to disabled people, including children. For these people and for their social inclusion, the use of an assistant is the only option to lead a normal independent life and exercise their fundamental rights. The analysis shows that the legislation in force does not introduce sufficient social services - Personal and Social Assistant, funded by the state budget. Apart from the legal definitions of the two social services in the Additional Provisions of the Rules for Implementation of the Social Assistance Act, other important rules are not regulated. There are no regulatory arrangements to ensure the sustainability of social services and their financing. Assistant care shall be provided on a design and programme basis without any certainty that the provision and financing of the services will be continued after the completion of the next project or programme. Apart from that, those in need of assistant support have a limited opportunity to choose their assistants. Often due to the requirements of the programmes or due to misunderstanding with their designated assistants, users remain completely without care for a long period, although formally approved for users of the service. The implemented social services for assistant support financed by the state budget do not have sufficient flexibility to allow disabled citizens, after the deadline for submitting application documents, to receive the necessary assistance. Even the National Program of Disabled Assistants, which is still possible to submit applications all year round, does not provide a real opportunity to provide a personal assistant, given the unresolved problem with the minimum number of jobs identified as programme assistants. In addition to the lack of adequate assessment of needs, the constantly active National Program "Assistants of people with disabilities" continues to operate an income criterion related to the size of the guaranteed minimum income for the country. Notwithstanding the amendment at the beginning of 2018, the amount of guaranteed minimum income remains a major obstacle to including those in need as users of the programme service. A large number of parents of children with disabilities are not included in the programmes for personal assistants, which is why they remain without any income and are forced to use the released socio-economic protection not for treatment, to compensate for the deficits of diseases and for the integration of children, but for the physical survival of the family. On the other hand, in addition to the funds under programmes and projects, to meet the needs of people with permanently reduced productivity from foreign aid are granted by the state budget supplements under art. 103 of the Code of Social Security and Assigned Aid for an Accompaniment on the grounds of art. 44, para. 1, t. 4 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. The reports show that approximately 90 million are spent on these additives and aids. lv. from the state budget, without even minimally improving the situation of the entitled people with disabilities and their families. The current legislation of the social services is not able to meet the requirements of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which the Republic of Bulgaria ratified on 26 January 2012. In view of the difficulties of people with disabilities and the various practices in countries, the UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities published on 27 October 2017 an official commentary on the content of the concepts of non-viable life. The commentary also states what assistant assistance should be in order to ensure the maximum rights of those in need. The project regulates the mechanism of personal assistance that ensures the sustainability of personal assistance and its financing; providing personal assistance based on a real individual needs assessment; uniform criteria for inclusion in the mechanism that are set at regulatory level; flexibility of activities and the ability of the needy to choose who will be his assistant, to familiarize him with the specifics of his needs and to determine when and how the service will be provided to him. The mechanism of personal assistance is based on state-sponsored financial support, individual needs and choice of disabled persons. The bill explicitly regulates the granting authorities of personal assistance, with detailed powers of application of the mechanism, users and providers of personal assistance, as well as the requirements for carrying out the activities as an assistant. A user of personal assistance within the meaning of the Bill is a child or disabled person who has led to limitations in his ability to self-service in everyday life and to dependence on foreign aid to compensate for the functional deficit and to provide support for the exercise of his fundamental rights. The bill also includes provisions regulating the control of the application of the Law, as well as the regulation of the reporting of expenditure and aided persons with disabilities. An obligation to analyse and assess the objectives achieved in the granting of personal aid is also envisaged. Finally, the Ombudsman stated that the financial estimates of the Bill were made on the basis of natural indicators for 2018, provided by the National Insurance Institute and the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the number of people with disabilities. Mrs. Manolova's team has calculated that the final amount of the necessary financial resources is 105 million. 141,000. £962. The Draft Law is attached to the Report for a preliminary assessment of the impact of the Personal Aid Bill, as well as a tabular estimate of the funds needed for the implementation of the Bill. The draft laws under consideration were discussed on 10 July 2018 by the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation and by the Permanent Committee on Income and Vital Level of the National Council for Tripartite Cooperation. Both bodies have not supported the bill. The opinions of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the Ministry of Finance, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Association of Persons with Intellectual Disabilities, lawyer Harri Haralambov were deposited for both bills in the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. With many principled and concrete arguments, all the listed institutions and organisations do not support the proposed bills. The Commission received an opinion on the support and adoption of the Law prepared by the institution of the Ombudsman, from the following organizations: "St.St.St.St.St.St.St.St.St. The discussion was attended by MPs Georgi Gokov, Svetlana Angelova, Dr. Kalin Popovski, Milko Nedyalkov and Hassan Ademov. On behalf of their parliamentary groups, everyone said they would support both bills by expressing their readiness between the two readings to make the adjustments that the bills need. Following the end of the discussion and the vote held with results: 21 votes for....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Personal Assistance Bill, No 854-01-62, submitted by Plamen Hristov, Albena Naydenova and a group of MPs on 2 July 2018. With results: 21 votes for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ He proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote the Personal Assistance Bill, No 854-01-64, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, submitted on 4 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u84	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. The report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government follows. Here you go, Mr. Kolev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the Personal Aid Bill, No 854-01-62, submitted by Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs, and the Personal Assistance Bill, No 854-01-64, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 25 October 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed the Personal Aid Bill, No 854 01 62, submitted by Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs on 2 July 2018, and the Personal Aid Bill No 854-01-64, submitted by Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 4 July 2018. Mrs. Sultanka Petrova took part in the meeting of the committee. Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy and representatives of the Ombudsman administration. On behalf of the importers, the bills were presented by the MPs Mrs. Albena Naydenova and Mr. Nikolai Ivanov. Both bills, although tabled by separate groups of MPs, are identical, and both groups of importers submitted the draft prepared with the participation of the Ombudsman and representatives of organisations of people with disabilities. The aim of the bill is to provide personal assistance to help disabled people exercise their fundamental rights, to have the opportunity to have independent life, active inclusion and participation in the community and access to various services and activities. The mechanism for providing personal assistance and its financing is regulated on the basis of state-backed financial support, individual needs and choice of disabled persons. The granting authorities shall be designated, their powers of application of the mechanism, users and providers of personal assistance, as well as the requirements for carrying out the work as an assistant. It is envisaged that the municipality should be provided with personal assistance at the current address of the user and that the mayor of the municipality may entrust the activities of a personal assistance provider to a non-profit legal entity that meets the conditions laid down in the bill. The terms and conditions of the activity of the provider of personal assistance, the provision of personal assistance by the assistants and the mechanism for their change, and the change of the service provider are laid down. Provisions governing the control of the implementation of the Law and the reporting of the funds spent and supported persons with disabilities, as well as for carrying out an analysis and evaluation of the objectives achieved in the provision of personal aid are provided. Deputy Minister Petrova presented the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, expressing the principled support of the bill and proposing the necessary changes to fixes individual provisions between the two votes. Support for the bill was also expressed by representatives of the Ombudsman administration. During the discussion, the MPs expressed their principled support for the bill, paying attention to the need to refine its provisions between the two votes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 17 votes...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Kolev. The report of the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Here you are, Mrs. Ilieva,
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u87	Madam President, honourable Members! The Committee on Budget and Finance has examined separately the two draft laws and prepared two reports which I will present to your attention in chronological order of their entry into the National Assembly: ♪ I can't believe on the Personal Aid Bill, No 854-01-62, submitted by the National Representative Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs on 2 July 2018. At a meeting held on 25 October 2018, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Personal Aid Bill, No 854 01-62, submitted by the National Representative Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs on 2 July 2018. The bill was presented by Mrs. Dora Hristova from the parliamentary group of the Political Party. The current legal framework of social services, which the Republic of Bulgaria ratified on 26 January 2012, cannot meet the requirements of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The proposed bill aims to provide adequate personal assistance to assist disabled people to exercise their fundamental rights, to lead an independent life, to have free access to various services and activities. The project proposes a mechanism for providing personal assistance to ensure its sustainability and funding based on individual needs assessment and uniform criteria for inclusion in this mechanism. It enables users of a personal assistant to choose who he is and to determine when and how this service will be provided. The authorities for the granting of personal assistance with detailed powers of application of the mechanism are also regulated, provisions regulating the control of the application of the Law, accounting for the amounts and funds spent, as well as the persons supported. An obligation to analyse and assess the objectives achieved when providing personal aid is also envisaged. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 21 votes for the draft budget and finance committee, No 854-01-62, submitted by the National Representative Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs on 2 July 2018. ♪ I can't believe on the Personal Aid Bill, No 854-01-64, submitted by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 4 July 2018. At its meeting held on 25 October 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Personal Aid Bill, No 854-01-64, submitted by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 4 July 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Rumen Gechev The legislation in force does not introduce sufficient social services arrangements for a private and social assistant financed by the state budget; no mechanisms are provided for ensuring the sustainability of social services and their financing; no tools are introduced to achieve continuity of the provision of services; no uniform mechanisms are provided for carrying out an adequate assessment of the needs of disabled people by using assistant support. Assessments shall be drawn up by vague and different requirements for each service provider and shall be subject to easy and subjective change, and those needing assistant support shall have a limited opportunity to choose their assistants. The lack of explicit regulations places the realization of social services and the fulfillment of the needs of the needy entirely depending on the will of the executive authority and especially of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the mayors of municipalities. The current legal framework of social services, which the Republic of Bulgaria ratified on 26 January 2012, cannot meet the requirements of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. The draft regulation regulates the mechanism of personal assistance that ensures the sustainability of personal assistance and its financing; providing personal assistance based on a real individual assessment of needs; uniform criteria for inclusion in the mechanism that are set at regulatory level; flexibility of activities and the ability of the needy to choose who will be his assistant, to familiarize him with the specifics of his needs and to determine when and how the service will be provided to him. There is also an effective spending of the public resources provided for assistant services under various programmes and projects at this time. After presenting and discussing the draft, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: 21 votes for the draft budget and finance committee, No 854-01-64, submitted by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 4 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u88	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ilieva. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Genov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u89	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! I will introduce you to our parliamentary group's position on the bill. The fact is that assistant services are vital to disabled people, including children. In order to enable the social inclusion of disabled people who are, by default, unable to serve themselves, it is clear that this is their only opportunity to lead an independent lifestyle. At the moment, funds are being paid for assistant support from the state budget under various programmes and projects, but the legal framework is not sufficiently effective at this stage. In many cases, this is the main reason for lack of sustainability when presenting this type of social service. We strongly share the need to create a better and detailed regulation and ensure financial sustainability of assistant services. That is precisely why we accept the philosophy of the Bill and will support it at first reading, as we did in the committees, although a significant part of the organisations concerned do not support it or have neutral positions. We are aware that the aim of the Bill is to overcome the difficulties faced by people with disabilities and to create the necessary conditions for exercising their rights. This can happen by providing the needy with options for independent life, active inclusion and participation in the community, as well as access to various services and activities. In addition, the requirements of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities will also be adapted. The draft will also regulate something else: the mechanism for providing personal assistance, which is based on state-backed financial support for the individual needs of all persons in need and the choice of persons with disabilities, first ensuring the sustainability of personal assistance and its financing; uniform criteria are set for the inclusion of the mechanism, which are the basis for carrying out the so-called individual assessment of the needs of personal assistance; an opportunity will also be provided for the choice of an assistant by those in need of personal assistance in determining how to provide the necessary support. The Law regulates the three main positions: the authorities providing personal assistance with detailed powers to implement the mechanism; who are the users and providers of personal assistance as well as the requirement to carry out the activity as an assistant. The circle of users of personal assistance, which, within the meaning of the Bill, are children or people with disabilities, has been determined to limit their ability to self-service in everyday life and to depend on foreign assistance. A simplified and accessible procedure is envisaged to include persons in mechanisms by visiting the competent authority at home to assess the right to personal assistance and the required number of hours at the current address. A requirement is set for the user of personal assistance to actively participate in the choice of assistant and, depending on the specifics of his needs, can be determined even more than one assistant. It is also intended to provide personal assistance by the assistants and a replacement mechanism for both the assistant and the service provider. The bill also regulates the control of its implementation, regulating the way in which the hours used and the funds spent for the support provided to disabled persons are accounted for. In this version, the Bill has a lot of positions that we believe need further clarification, even a change that I hope will be resolved between the two readings, resulting in a consensus and a real working law that will satisfy the needs of those in need of personal assistance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u90	Thank you, dear Mr. Genov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Axieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u91	Madam President, honourable Members! As we all know, the Personal Aid Bill was recognized and introduced first by our parliamentary group as a result of the escalating public discontent and the monthly protests of the mothers of children with disabilities, with the clear aim that this bill is not perfect and there will be many changes ahead. For us it is a step in the right direction to finally begin to solve one by one these ill problems. The proposed project aims to provide adequate personal assistance to help disabled people exercise their fundamental rights, lead an independent life and have free access to various services and activities. The project proposes a mechanism for providing personal assistance to ensure its sustainability and funding based on individual needs assessment and uniform criteria for inclusion in this mechanism. It enables users of a personal assistant to choose who he is and to determine when and how to provide them with this service. That is, they allow personal assistance to participate in the selection of assistants, which can be more than one depending on needs. The draft regulation regulates the authorities for providing personal assistance with detailed powers to implement the mechanism. It also includes provisions regulating the control of the implementation of the Law, accounting for the funds spent, as well as aided persons. An obligation to analyse and assess the objectives achieved when providing personal aid is also envisaged. The opinions of the institutions, organizations and trade unions involved for various reasons rejected the proposals Draft Law on Personal Aid, but in the last four months after the introduction of the Bill, many things happened in the direction of negotiating conditions and mutual concessions for solving the problems of people with disabilities, which were finalized in the Action Plan for adoption of legislation for people with disabilities signed by the executive authority, the Ombudsman, representatives of the initiative Our system kills and the nationally represented organisations of people with disabilities. In addition, an additional 150 million were agreed. lv. in the budget for the policy for people with disabilities. That is, the circumstances and the framework in which this bill will be dealt with have changed. We therefore believe that it is the commitment of all of us to consider this between first and second readings to create a working legal instrument that decides the undisputed need of personal assistance for people with disabilities. I will conclude by saying that many times our leader Veselin Mareshki and we from Volja have announced that we support people with disabilities and will fully defend their demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Axieva. - What's the line? I can't see. Speaking, Mr. Popovski.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u93	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! This law is part of the package of the three laws. It could also be a fragment of the Social Services Act, but we decided to comply with the will of the protesters to be a separate law to guarantee sustainability. This has already been said by colleagues, and also in committee reports. There are a lot of figures, but I will quote for colleagues who are not in the Social and Health Committee and have not come to know in detail very important things that are foreseen by the end of this term of office. The hourly rate coefficient for working under the mechanism of personal assistance under art. 42, notice, for 2019 it is 1.1 of the minimum salary for the country by hourly rate, for next year it is 1.3, and for 2021 when this term will be the end of the term, possibly 1.5. That is, once this rate increases, once the minimum wage increases for the country. That is, financial sustainability is provided here, which is something really reasonable and rational in this law, although it is written only in these three numerals. The United Patriarchs Group will support, of course, the Bill. I hope that the public tensions will fall and the protests will end as soon as possible, because you can see that it is working in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u94	Thank you, dear Mr. Popovski. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Kutev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u95	Dear colleagues, the Personal Aid Act is, as we have said, only one of the series of laws relating to the protests of people with disabilities and the regulation of this matter. I have repeatedly said in the committees that I think the systematic place of this subject matter is not in a separate law, but in the Social Services Act. Having appeared in a separate subject matter is a matter of everything we have been arguing about just now, and it is caused by how the whole history with people with disabilities has developed and how Parliament and the government have started dealing with it in general. I believe that this law is neither the work of the Ombudsman, who practically coordinated the writing, with the participation of many people, including the collaborators with whom I work, nor of opposition MPs. I have stated this not only now, but many times during the course of the discussion of the Bill, not only to this but also to others, when it is clear that we have legislation that practically has to reverse the way the system operates. The general legislation is not only about the Personal Aid Act, the disabled and the Social Services Act. Of course, such legislation, which offers key solutions, cannot be made by people of the opposition or by the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Perhaps this Personal Aid Bill was the maximum thing that could somehow be developed outside the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and make sense. Whatever we talk about, the Ministry has existed long enough, there are enough personnel and enough opportunities for it to have the capacity to make such key reforms. And it is quite normal that neither opposition MPs nor the Ombudsman of the Republic have this administrative capacity to work out this legislation. That's why I've been saying all this time that this legislation has to work at the Ministry and get out of there. That's why the main thing I did this year and a half, the last thing, is to give the Ministry a hard time, and also to the majority in parliament, to develop their social service bills so that they can move things forward. This bill changes a few key things. One of them completely changed the structure and functions of the Agency for Disabled People, including the other already mentioned that it should become a State Agency. It completely changes the role and functions of the Agency for Social Assistance because, in order to do this, a part of the Agency for Social Assistance needs to be transferred to the Agency for Persons with Disabilities. These are all things that are too big to be done the way this law is done. The result of all this work is that I, as an importer of the Project, am fully aware that it has its shortcomings that must be corrected between first and second readings. At the very least, it must be synchronized clearly enough with other laws. Come on, with the Law on Disabled People is currently synchronized, but must be synchronized with the Law on Social Services, which has not yet been submitted to parliament. From this point of view, we have a great deal of work to do under this law, but I would like to note that it has appeared as one of the tools for doing our job all of us. It's been a tool for me all along to bring people's idea and demands to some real end. That is why, returning to the dispute from the previous item on the agenda, I would like to tell you that the role in this case belongs to all of us However, I want to be clear, because for me the unique thing about this legislation, in this law, in the previous law, and, for God's sake, in the next one that will enter in a few days.......... is that here, if it was not the pressure of the citizens, the bill would not only be written and imported, it would not have been accepted! The same majority, which will now vote for the opposition, had it not been for this pressure and had it not been for the political situation at the moment, would not have adopted the bill at least because of the fact that it was imported by opposition MPs, but not just because of this. In this regard, this legislation is an excuse for us to understand how the National Assembly can work, to understand and how it works. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u96	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Dr. Ademov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! The law of personal assistance is a law with a very complex and controversial history, but from this complexity, its multilayerity was born the cause of the mothers of children with disabilities. In front of this cause, as strange as it may sound, even the Law on Legislative Acts, even all critics of this bill must take their hats down and bow to the mother's desire to fight for the rights of their children. Why am I saying this? Because there are many critics, including Mr. Kutev just now, without criticising the project, said that the place of personal assistance is in the Social Services Act. There are such opinions. Even a large part of the prevailing opinions are precisely these. However, the big question is: when it enters the framework of the Social Services Act, when it becomes part of all social services, should we find a tool to give priority to personal assistance? Because besides a cause, personal assistance is a means, personal assistance is a tool and an opportunity to overcome obstacles, to overcome barriers, a tool that enables people to integrate. I do not agree here at all with what has been said in the discussion of the previous bill that people with disabilities want money to buy cheese and medicines. That's not what they want, ladies and gentlemen! They want the opportunity to work, to have incomes from work, so that, as some of them express, they do not parasite on the social system, not irritate the other members of society! Because many of them have several higher educations, have the opportunity to work, but for not having adequate, sustainable over the years and over time assistant support, they cannot do this! And they're forced to stay home, they're forced to stay with their children, and that way they don't have work income, they rely solely on social evaluation. If we do not give priority, if we do not give a dominant role to personal assistance within the framework of all our social legislation by separate law, there is a risk that this service, called personal assistance, called assistant support, is lost somewhere in other social services. This is the great logic, this is the cause of mothers, which we support from the beginning from our parliamentary group, without fanfare, like some of the other colleagues. Everyone has the right to judge their way of support. There's a few pitys, a few cornerstones of personal support. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I would like you to pay attention to these three important pillars of the mechanism of personal assistance. First of all, a real individual needs assessment. Without a real individual needs assessment, without this assessment carried out by sufficiently serious, qualified and skilled social workers, there is no way, when financial support for the functional deficit is already determined, to actually focus on other forms of support and personal assistance. Because if the real assessment determines personal assistance with the appropriate hours, with the corresponding funding, then things can be obtained. Next, the second main pillar, very important: uniform criteria for inclusion in the mechanism. Why uniform criteria? Because, in the current situation, municipalities that enter into contracts with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to provide this assistant program, even the National Program of Personal Assistants, have different criteria for inclusion. There is also an income criterion on top of everything related to the guaranteed minimum income. Therefore, the uniform criteria laid down in law are the basis of the realization of the right of those in need of the support, called the Personal Assistant. The assistant service is therefore important because it must be specified, it must be inserted within the individual need, it must be inserted within the so-called individual needs assessment. Next, the flexibility of the service provision activities. What does that mean? This means, first of all, the right to choose the person with disability. The disabled person must have the right to choose the personal assistant concerned. Without respect for that his right, we come to confusion situations in which there are disputes between the personal assistant, who is forced by someone, without taking into account the desire of the disabled person. So without this flexibility and this right of the disabled person to have an opinion, when determining the personal assistant, to have the right to explain to the assistant what his needs are, what real support he needs, there is no way things can happen. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't want to continue talking about this project. I want to say this: I know that there are many people who demand that this project go to the Social Services Act. Personally, I demand that this project, this mechanism of personal assistance, be in a separate law. I thank the MPs from all the parliamentary groups who supported this idea. Regardless of the pressure approach, and so on, personal help deserves to her that we take the hats down and say thank you to those who insist on her so that we can move forward in solving the policies of people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u98	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? [[Noise and lines.]] Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, you know that Bulgaria is a republic with parliamentary rule. At the beginning of today's session, I explicitly asked the President of the National Assembly to urge the Deputy Prime Minister to come. She made a commitment to make such a persistent call. I am sure she has fulfilled that promise of hers. We will now vote on the second law, and the Deputy Prime Minister is gone. Please explain what happened. Did you make contact with the Deputy Prime Minister, why he is hiding, where he is, is there something more important? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u100	Thank you, Mr. Popov. I'll try to figure out what's going on right now. There are no lines to Mr. Ademov. Statements? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u101	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the moment, people with the worst disabilities are actually outside the civil turnover. They have minimum social security, they don't have health insurance, they can't work. I do not want to talk about the support provided by the State with regard to personal assistance under the current mechanism. Not all municipalities are covered, not all interested parties are covered. In this regard, this law gives a new chance for all people who need personal help. The most important thing he changes is to create sustainability of the provision of this service in a home environment. The law gives predictability, sustainability and justice to those who need it most. I admire the consensus in this Chamber, in this sitting, to all support the Personal Aid Act, because it really needs a separate provision, to be a special law to give security to people who need domestic services. What I want to say is that I am extremely glad that it is happening here and now, I am extremely glad that it is not postponed again with the argument that it should be part of the kit and part of the Social Services Act, because there is no real clarity when the Social Services Act will be a fact. I welcome the consensus in this House and hope that all MPs will support the Personal Aid Act! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Personal Aid Bill, No 854 01-02, submitted by the National Representative Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs. They voted 129 MPs: for 129, against and abstention there is no. [[Applause.]] The bill has been passed. I put to the vote the Personal Aid Bill, No 854 01-64, tabled by the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 132 MPs: for 131, against none, abstention 1. [[Applause.]] The offer is accepted. [[People are becoming and applauding the Ombudsman Maya Manolova and the guests of the balcony.]] Congratulations! All of you, up there, have managed to unite the entire room... though with slight deviations, to achieve something that was worth the effort. Thank you. Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. The written answers from: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two issues from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on three questions from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on a question from the National Representative Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the National Representative Kristina Siderova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Radoslav Stoychev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev, Manol Genov and Georgi Yordanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Valentina Naydenova and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the MPs Hristo Prodanov and Georgi Svilenski; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov. Honourable MPs, there is a request for the period from 19 to 25 October from the National Representative Dora Yankova to Petya Avramova " Minister of Regional Development and Public Works for Government policy on construction, reconstruction, rehabilitation and management of Republican roads, third grade. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 2 November 2018. We continue with questions to the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov, who will answer a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev Petrov and Diana Savateva about dealing with crime in the resort settlements during the summer season of 2018. Dear Mr. Boychev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question is about the past summer tourist season. Undoubtedly, ensuring the tranquility of tourists, respectively, of the staff employed in this sector, of course and of the people living in these Black Sea cities, in these tourist complexes, is one of the important factors for the development of this sector in general, which is one of the main, structurally defining in our economy. My question is about the last summer tourist season. Our regions are specific.. both Black Sea cities and summer tourist complexes. They focus a large number of tourists, are therefore an attractive center for crime during this period of the year, and in recent years it has already been seen that we are an attractive center of foreign criminals who come to practice various crimes in these regions. My question is: what do the analyses show about the criminogenic situation in Burgas and the region during May.September; what are the most common crimes committed; is there a difference in the crime picture of the past years? Based on the aggregated data, what measures should the Ministry of Interior take to ensure a more reliable season in the upcoming 2019; are changes needed in the organization of work, as well as in contacts with local authorities and business? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u104	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Savateva, Mr. Boychev, based on the analysis of the operational situation and the working organisation in place every year a Plan for the activities of the Ministry of Interior for Public Order Protection, Countering Crime and ensuring the fire safety in resorts and tourist areas is developed. In the midst of the season there are additional preventive, security and operational search events. In the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior Burgas, Varna and Dobrich, whose territories are located sea resorts, coordination and interaction with the local authorities and representatives of private security companies for preventing and crossing crimes and other legal offences are carried out. With the help of the Black Sea municipalities in nocturnal places in the resort complexes are built systems for video surveillance. During the whole season, joint police operations with the territorial structures of the National Revenue Agency, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the Consumer Protection Commission, the Customs Agency, the Ministry of Tourism, health and other institutions that have a commitment took place. In the summer of 2018, additional police forces were posted to seaside resorts and regional directorates serving them to protect public order and counter crime. A total of 933 police officers were seconded, of which 759 were seconded to the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior "Burgas," 126 at the Regional Directorate of Varna, and 48 at the Regional Directorate of Dobrich. Continued the established practice of implementing joint work with the Romanian, Czech, Polish and this year piloted with the German police. Foreign police officers carry out their duties in the country's regulated uniforms as a priority work with the citizens of Romania, the Czech Republic, Poland and Germany. The joint work helps to overcome language barriers and has a positive effect in the process of communication and confidence building. The establishment of interdepartmental coordination centres in Varna and Burgas has also established itself as an effective form of interaction between the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the National Revenue Agency. Their aim is to counter tax crimes and control fiscal discipline, counter smuggling and control the movement of risky goods and goods, establish illegal incomes and cash flows from criminal activity. I would like to assure you that the necessary organization has been established by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to protect the lives, health and property of the guests in the tourist complexes and sites during the past tourist season. There is a reduction in registered crimes and an increase in the detection of crimes committed. Each year at the beginning and end of the season, meetings are held between the management of the Ministry of Interior and diplomatic representations of countries for which Bulgaria is a traditional tourist destination. At the meeting held on 18 May 2018, the diplomats praised the activities of the Bulgarian police. In the duplicate procedure will also provide you with statistics on registered and revealed crimes on the territory of resort complexes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u106	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Petrov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for your answer. We, as bystanders, notice an improvement in the work of the Ministry of Interior with every passing season, which, again, I say, is very important. Preventive measures, perhaps the actual activity during the summer tourist season itself, give their results. As I said, Black Sea cities are very specific. I give an example with the municipality of Nessebar, which is about 15 thousand inhabitants, but therefore it is an area with a lot of centered hotels, a very large bed base and summer becomes a big Bulgarian city, which is an additional burden for securing these regions by the police. I'm gonna ask you the question, and I know that I may not be the only one who's asked it for sure, but can't you think about one of the ways you can deal with this focus of a lot of people during the summer season with the secondment of employees? I don't think it's normal to use 100% of their capacity from a point of view that they don't know the region that well, the local people and the hoteliers, respectively. Can't you think about it a little bit about money and budget, to increase the state of small governments that are located in these cities, and therefore perhaps in the winter season to be used by the ORD Burgas? Again, there are definitely improvements in work. The measures that you have said as an interaction with the other ministries are effective, but still to think in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u108	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, I will start first from the last sentence. With regard to the state numbers of these districts, you yourself said that they are specific in nature, as during the summer season the presence of citizens is growing very much, and in the winter season in some of them we are talking about the resort complexes, such as the beach of Sunny Beach, there are not even residents in it. This requires a flexible approach on our part with a view to the effective use of the resource. As a principle, the summer there focuses both tourists and the criminal contingent from all over the country. From this point of view, seconded officials, who are, for example, from the capital or other cities, know well their criminal contingent, which we on internal channels are watching for its movement, and know where it is at the moment. From this point of view, it is good to have posted employees who know the contingent and, on the other hand, are external to the hoteliers and the local population. If we increase the district governments in these resorts, then winter should be called upon to post them elsewhere. I think we are looking for options to find the optimal solution so that we can provide a good service to the citizens. I will introduce you to the statistics, which, as you have noted, is favorable with a tendency to reduce the committed crimes and increase the detection rate. The approach that has been applied for several years and the cooperation of the institutions that are engaged in this activity, I think they are giving results, and I suppose that in the coming seasons they will give even better results. Only for statistics in the period May "September 2018" in the districts of Nessebar, Pomorie, Sozopol, Primorsko and Tsarevo at the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior Burgas were registered a total of 1607 crimes, compared to 2 thousand 345 for the summer season of 2017. A reduction of registered crime was reported by 31.5%. 26.8% reduces registered crimes against the person. There is an increase in the detection rate by nearly 20 points in registered drug crimes compared to the summer of 2017, and I will note that this type of crime is latent and actually takes active action by police officers to reveal and register. The main share of this type of crime is in the District Department "Nessebar," serving the territory of the resort "Sunny Beach." The share of property crimes is the largest in resort complexes, but in the summer of 2018 there was a decrease in registered crimes of this type by 34.2% compared to the summer of the previous year. At the same time, the disclosure rate is rising. The analysis of the Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate Varna shows that the crime rate has been low for the past five years. On the territory of the resort complexes "Golden Sands" and "St. Konstantin and Elena" at the Regional Directorate of Varna, crimes have decreased by nearly 30%. The most reported is the registered reduction in pickpocket thefts and in the attacks on motor vehicles, where the rate is 82, and in the thefts, respectively, 31.2. At the same time, there is an increase in disclosure of this type of criminal activity. Regarding the District Directorate of Dobrich, in the past five years there has been a lasting trend towards reducing criminal offences and perseverance in the detection rate. In the resorts of Albena and Balchik at the District Directorate of Dobrich, a majority of the crimes committed are the thefts, but compared to the previous tourist seasons there is also a decline. There has been a reduction in the robbery, in the violation of motor vehicles and in drug-related crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u110	Thank you, dear Minister. We continue with the next question to Minister Marinov again by the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva. It is about the state of the integrated system for monitoring and protection of borders between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Republic of Turkey. You have the floor to ask the question, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u111	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The issue of security at the Bulgarian border is a topic that excites the Bulgarian society permanently in recent years. This is quite explainable because after the war in Syria there was a very intense refugee flow, the peak of which was in 2014 and 2015 in a way and 2016. Despite the dynamics in the international situation and the decline of the refugee flow in recent years, the interest remains lasting, as it is not known what will happen, as is said tomorrow and in the coming years. Therefore, a decision was made to build an integrated monitoring and security system at the Bulgarian border. We are talking about a complex of permanent measures that will be implemented with a prospect for years. Ever since the construction of the so-called partition engineering facility, which was completed in June 2017, me and my colleagues in Burgas raised the issue of maintenance and the overall design of the partition facility along with the surveillance system, because the fence is only one part of it. When we talk about this, we very often notice that the accompanying activities that have been done are not taken into account. I am referring to the accompanying infrastructure and the leading roads without which the operation of the partition facility would not be possible. There is no need to convince ourselves how important it is that all of this should be kept under constant care of both the Ministry of Interior and the district governments with full awareness that maintenance is entrusted to the district governments. We ask you a question that is related to the state of the engineering partition facility, because there is no more reliable information than what it currently looks like, which has border police, because every day border police officers are there. Could you answer us, please, is the maintenance of the engineering partitioning facility resolved? How is this happening at this moment? Who controls the maintenance itself? And another question that is related to the overall functioning of the system. Has the entire engineering facility been equipped with the relevant cameras and other means? We know that the fence is only one part of the facility, and the cameras are no less important. There has been a delay in public procurement and is this overcome and what is the current situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Savateva, Dear Mr. Boychev, Ministry of Interior, respectively the Directorate-General of Border Police. In carrying out their functions and duties in close proximity to the obstruction facility, the staff of the Border Police Directorate General shall exercise control over its integrity. Any damage to the structure due to human interference, meteorological impacts or other causes shall be reported immediately. Depending on the location of the established event, the Border Police Directorate General shall officially inform the relevant regional governor of taking the necessary measures in order to remedy the damage found and as soon as possible. Border surveillance activities along the border with the Republic of Turkey are actively exploiting the capabilities of the integrated surveillance system. The system is built in two phases. The first phase is located in the section of the state border between the border crossings of Captain Andreevo and the border crossings of Lesovo. It was introduced into border surveillance in 2013. With the funds of the Homeland Security Fund, it has restored the performance of this part of the system. The same is currently functioning with its full capacity. The second phase is located in the area of the border crossings "Lesovo" near the mouth of the Rezovska river of high-speed sections and directions from the state border, including perimeter alarm and security systems and fixed positions for technical surveillance. A contract for the construction of sensor lines for monitoring of sections of the state border is under way, which are currently not secured by technical means of observation. Within the planned extension of the integrated monitoring system, funds are provided by the European Commission. Other projects are built and will integrate five new stationary positions for technical surveillance. In the applied security events at the Bulgarian-Turkish border mobile surveillance systems are actively used. With the helicopters of the Special Air Surveillance Unit of the Directorate-General of Border Police, which are equipped with surveillance sensor systems, aerial surveillance is carried out along the state border and the areas in depth of the border area. For securing the directions not covered by elements of the integrated surveillance system, the broadcasted border-police units are provided with handheld thermal imaging cameras, portable surveillance systems and night vision instruments. Active participation and support was given by the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex) and, in this regard, under the terms of the joint operation, the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex) is seconded forces and funds from other Member States of the European Union patrolling with our border guards. In view of the importance of the subject, the third question will be answered in a duplicate procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u115	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. From what you said, I realized that in the first part between Captain Andreevo and Lesovo, where, in fact, at the earliest in 2013, the relevant cameras and other sensor systems were placed, no problem, is currently being cared for and the corresponding repair that should have been done has been done. There are more finishing work to be done in the other part, which is next to Rezovo. I suppose some of the funds provided for by the European Commission are also used there, I suppose. We're talking 320 million. lv. As far as I am informed, the deadline for their absorption has been extended. I guess you could say something more in that direction, if you're ready, of course. Along with this, the overall impression mostly of the people who live in the border regions is that the refugee flow has decreased significantly in recent years. I have a statistic from your predecessor's previous reply: in 2016 the detainees in an attempt to cross the Bulgarian-Turkish border were 2194. In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise The trend is clear. I would be pleased to hear from my colleague Mr. Boychev and myself what the data is during the last year, if you have such data to really make sure that it is about a sensitive reduction in the refugee flow. This does not, of course, mean that the observation and degree of engagement must be lower. Because, as we have already mentioned, we are talking about a dynamic international environment where it is not excluded to activate the refugee flow. I'm guessing the Ministry of Interior is ready for stocks in these cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u116	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u117	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Savateva, I will start from there the dry land border between Bulgaria and Turkey as a result of the built-in obstruction of the building security system is extremely effective. This shall be reported at European level. Including my last participation in the Council of Ministers of the Interior in Luxembourg, it has been noted that the approach and the way we guard the external border with Turkey have produced outstanding results. I'll introduce you to the statistics for this year. Following the construction of a temporary obstruction facility along the border with the Republic of Turkey, the Directorate-General of Border Police is reporting a reduction of attempts to cross the Bulgarian-Turkish border illegally due to a shift of some of the migration pressure towards the border of the Republic of Turkey with the Hellenic Republic. A significant role in terms of reducing the number of persons undertaking attempts to cross the border illegally also played a major role in the state of emergency in the Republic of Turkey. A total of 1864 persons were identified between 1 January and 31 July 2018 from whom the illegal entry of 1375 was prevented, 160 were detained at entry and 329 persons were detained by the neighbouring border authorities. In comparison, a total of 3122 persons were identified between 1 January and 31 July 2017 from whom the illegal entry of 2445 persons was prevented, 441 persons were detained at entry and 236 persons were detained by the neighbouring border authorities, with a total of 6904 persons for the entire year 2017. At the same time, in the months of August, September and October, by 24 October 2018, there was an increase in the number of attempts at illegal crossings, as well as in the cases of illegal crossing of the state border with the Republic of Turkey. This is related to the weather. The summer season. As a trend returned in previous years, it is normal for attempts to intensify during this period of the year. A total of 2416 persons were identified for that period. As a result of the growing operational situation and active directions were outlined the Directorate-General for Border Police (CPOL) continues to post additional forces and funds from other regional departments of Border Police at the Bulgarian-Turkish border and some of them at the Bulgarian-Greek border, as there is also a trend for attempts for illegal crossing. There is also good interaction with the Turkish border authorities. You know, they operate trilateral centers where Turkish border police, Bulgarian border police, Greek border police work, which greatly facilitates the interaction and exchange of information. There is no change with regard to the means of passage. Attempts to breach are mainly across the green border and in a smaller part through border crossing points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u118	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Given the importance of the information, we've delayed the time, but thank you for the answer. I don't think there's any objection to that. The next question is from the MPs Mihail Hristov, Teodora Halacheva and Krasimir Yankov on prevention of the spread and use of so-called design drugs. Here you are, Mrs. Halacheva, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u119	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, our question is related to the prevention and distribution of the use of designer drugs in our country. In recent years, the use of psychoactive substances of a new type by children and adolescents has increased. The speed at which the scale of distribution in Bulgaria is increasing is such that it is actually becoming an alarming trend, which is acute and sad. At this age, the anatomical features of the central nervous system are formed in children, its functioning, and hence the mental characteristics of the personality and its behavior. Mental health specialists in Bulgaria find a link between the use of the new types of psychoactive substances with the increased manifestations of aggressive behavior and mental disorders of these age groups. Unfortunately, in Bulgaria access to the substances, which in certain combinations lead to the creation of so-called design drugs, is unlimited. Children and youths can easily reach them. For their receipt, anyone can learn from digital space, and very often and can buy from the Internet. Limiting the use of these substances is difficult, but it is our responsibility. It is the responsibility of each country to create conditions for the protection of the health and life of its citizens and, above all, of children and young people. Mr. Minister, you are a man of experience who has worked at the Ministry of Interior for a long time. We address you to the professional Marinov with the concern of all Bulgarian parents. You're responsible for not being afraid of drug trafficking in our country. We are convinced that the capacity and capabilities of your Ministry will achieve it. Therefore, the question is: what measures will the Ministry of Interior take to prevent the distribution and use of designer drugs in Bulgaria? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u120	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u121	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Halacheva, Mr. Hristov, Mr. Yankov, in the last few years the national drug market has been following the trends of the European drug market, where new psychoactive substances or so-called designer drugs, in parallel with stimulants and cannabis, are becoming increasingly popular. Designer drugs maintain the trend towards growing diversity. In general, these are several main groups of legal substitutes for drugs. They are produced in large volumes of chemical and pharmaceutical companies in China and are sent to Europe, where they are processed into finished products, packaged and sold. The supply of them is carried out through online trading or shipments with courier companies. Often, new psychoactive substances are available freely in specialized stores in the form of herbs, tea, bath salts, mixtures of exotic flavors and others. Their legitimate distribution in the form of smoking mixtures constitutes an objective threat to consumer health. Police authorities of the Ministry of Interior are planning and implementing various measures to counter the spread and use of drugs. A Programme for the work of police in schools has been developed, meeting specific objectives related to general prevention in relation to students and building models for safe conduct. Meetings and lectures shall be held in educational institutions, paying particular attention to the harm caused by the use of this type of narcotics. In the areas around the schools, joint action is taken with teachers and parents. Permanent contacts with representatives of educational institutions shall be maintained in order to notify the authorities of the Ministry of Interior in a timely and systematic manner in cases of drug crime. There are also people with questionable behaviors that spread in the areas of schools. An Interdepartmental Working Group has been established which includes experts from all institutions involved in countering the proliferation and use of narcotics to develop a National Drug Strategy for the period 2019. Specialized police operations are conducted by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior to counter drug proliferation, including designer drugs. As a result of these operations are closed shops in the territory of the capital and the country where various assortments are available freely for sale. There are long-standing contacts with other state institutions related to the problems related to this type of drug, namely the National Center for Drug Addiction, the Focus Center for Drug Addiction, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Health, the Customs Agency and other institutions that at certain times have a bearing on the problem. As a tool for achieving effectiveness and positive results in the overall fight against drugs, prevention is extremely important. In this area, we work effectively locally with the district drug councils. We also support the activities of preventive information centers for the implementation of municipal programs to combat drug use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u122	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Is there a line from the importers? Here you are, Mr. Christov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, you yourself said legal drugs. In fact, in fact, if I get caught with a substance like that, it's very difficult if it's not on the list of forbidden ones to be held accountable. I'll give you an interesting example with a Hungarian industrial paint thinner. I asked about 140 euros, which is very strange. It turns out that it isn't actually used to remove the paint, but put a few drops into a liquid and a person, in fact, is under the influence of this substance, but drug-testers or devices can't catch it. The substances are about 640 "those currently in Europe, so my question is: does the Ministry mean to put new substances on this list? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u124	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the additional question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u125	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Hristov, there is also the problem with the so-called design drugs because they are ahead of the legislation. And it is not only in Bulgaria, it comes real from other, more developed countries. We, as the Ministry and, of course, all the authorities that are working on countermeasures, are taking the initiative to bring certain products into this list, but it is always really lags behind. As soon as they are inserted, a new molecule is invented, a new mixture that is really a problem, so here is really very important prevention and awareness of the problem of this type of drugs. There are no good drugs, but in this case these are extremely dangerous because neither the origin nor the consequences or what subsequent problems may create in the body of adolescents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question is from the MP Ivan Chenchev. It's about the police presence in the town of Koprivshtitsa. Last question to the Minister of Interior at today's meeting. Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor to develop the issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u127	Mr. Chairman, thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I asked this question about three months ago to your predecessor and now again our colleague here at the National Assembly Mr. Radev. At the time I was convinced by him that such a question does not stand and there is a police presence in Koprivshtitsa and after 17.30. However, obviously this is not the case, because I will not read you my reasons for the question, but I will read to you the motives of the citizens of Koprivshtitsa, to whom there are 300 signatures attached to the time, here they are, which I will present to you shortly, along with the motives of the people. You're a new minister. I know your work because we've run into each other from previous jobs. I know you work with energy, with professionalism. You have an enviable and long experience in the structures of the Ministry of Interior and I know that you will do your best to resolve this issue. By the citizens of Koprivshtitsa: "I mean that at present in the town of Koprivshtitsa there is a police presence only on a weekday, and in the bright part of the day, we demand the following 24-hour coverage with employees as well as on weekends. Our reasons for this are: the town of Koprivshtitsa has a population of 2,400 people, the center of the autonomous municipality of Koprivshtitsa, where no other settlements are included. There are seven specialized museums and an art gallery, which store cultural monuments of local and national importance, which are visited annually by over 150 000 Bulgarian and about 20 000 foreign citizens, international and national conferences, green schools, school camps are organized annually, traditional folklore celebrations, cultural forums and trainings of students from art schools from all over the country are held in August. There are 16 hotels, three holiday stations, 46 guest houses with a bed base of about 1800 seats and over 20 drinking and entertainment facilities that function, as well as two banking branches and one banking office. In this regard, the two main business sectors providing the employment of the population are developing and the related construction of new tourist sites and logging and wood processing industries. During certain periods of the year, especially summer and autumn, a minority group of about 500 people live in the town's land, with which the population of the municipality reaches about 3,000 people. In this regard, we also take into account the following circumstances: the distance of about 30 km from the town of Koprivshtitsa from the town of Pirdop, in which the District Department operates, makes it difficult for the rapid and timely redirection of additional forces in the event of an incident of necessity. The increased tourist traffic, the formation of a pedestrian zone in the central urban area operating under the order of the mayor of the municipality on holiday and weekends, the large number of lonely living adults, the depopulation of the houses due to the relocation of their owners in certain periods of the year, mainly winter, in larger cities, are a prerequisite for committing crimes against property. And they are done, Mr. Minister. There are 1200 residential buildings in the city and about 500 of them are constantly inhabited. Others are visited periodically on holidays and holidays. Thefts, decrease in break-in and theft of residential and public buildings, tended to increase them in 2013 and in the period until 2018, crimes involving managers. I was convinced by your predecessor that such a problem would no longer exist, but we see that it exists. I will now give you the signatures of the people here. [[Provides documents of Minister Mladen Marinov.]] Of course, I rely on your and the Ministry of Interior competence to solve the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Chenchev, the problems of securing the police presence in Koprivshtitsa, as you said, were put and answered by the former Interior Minister. I will focus on what is currently being performed there. The Ministry of Interior, respectively the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior, Sofia, are taking the necessary measures to ensure the security of the citizens of the municipality of Koprivshtitsa. On the agenda is the fact that the composition of the Regional Management Board is being refined. At present, there are 15. In order to ensure the public order to the composition of the Koprivshtitsa precinct, an additional police inspector from the Security Police Group has been posted at Pirdop District. All territorial police officers appointed and working at Koprivshtitsa headquarters are resident in the city, which contributes to providing a 24-hour police coverage. The routes and the issued orders of the cars working on the uniform arrangement in the District Department of Pirdop are also included in other service stations, in this case the town of Koprivshtitsa, providing police presence in the dark part of the day and on the weekends. At present, measures are being taken to overcome the shortage in the District Department of Pirdop, two competition procedures have been announced for the appointment of a state service in the Ministry of Interior for a total of 12 holiday junior executive posts Five police officers have already been appointed since the first contest after a successfully completed course for initial vocational training. With the completion of the second competition procedure, I believe that the problem of the non-completion in the Regional Management Board will be solved. It will be possible to form two additional cars on duty 24 hours a day and one of them will be charged with staff working on patrol and traffic control. Those two patrols will serve the territory of the Regional Government of Pirdop, Western and Eastern region, respectively the municipalities of Zlatitsa, Chelopech, Chavdar, Mirkovo and the municipalities of Pirdop, Anton and Koprivshtitsa, on a rotational basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u130	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Chenchev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, this response from the Minister of Interior, in particular in your person, seems more comprehensive, because in the previous reply it was not said that there was a 12-state lack of kit. I thank you for your answer. Not just me, but the people of Koprivshtitsa are worried about the whole situation. What I see is that an inspector has been posted, but the people, visible from this signature they have made, and it is at the moment, probably continuing to collect more signatures from, I suppose, almost the entire civilian staff in Koprivshtitsa. I guess there's a problem. I heard from you that there are 15 states in Pirdop, and there are 12. Right? [[Mladen Marinov Minister's reply.]] Yeah. I think it's a screaming problem. It's pretty scary. So far, it seems that this was the situation because the municipalities and the territory are large. The distances between the settlements are great. There was no way that people would not turn around and take more stringent measures or try to signal you all over again. I believe the matter will be resolved. Koprivshtitsa has health care problems, ambulances. I've already asked that question. Of course, for a city like Koprivshtitsa, and for everyone else and every other place in the country, it should not be so that people there feel threatened, suffer from lack of sufficient security or health care, but this is another topic. Therefore, not only I, but they also rely on your competence, the Ministry of Interior, so that all this is done as soon as possible so that no more such questions can be asked. We'll keep an eye on the case. People are counting on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u132	Thank you. This was actually the last question to the Minister of Interior Mr. Marinov. Thank you for your input. Let's wish him luck in his work! Dear Members of Parliament, before we go to the questions of Mr. Valchev, Minister of Education and Science, I am obliged to make an announcement in the Chamber. Today, on 26 October 2018, it entered and will be sent to the Members of the National Assembly a joint draft of the Personal Aid Bills adopted at the first vote on 26 October 2018, today. The project is drawn up by the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. Thank you. We move on to the questions to Mr. Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. Question from the National Representative Elena Axieva concerning irregularities in the textbook for ninth grade which contradict the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you are, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u133	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is related to irregularities in the 9th grade textbook that contradict the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. In a textbook on biology and health education for IX grade by Publishing House "Anubis" with authors Shishiinova, Spasov, Odzhakova, Yotovski, Nedelcheva, Asenova, Vradjalieva, Rusinova, Bancheva on page 78, the following text is included in the section "Psychosexual Development" - adult age: "Invasion of social and gender maturity." Final formation of sexual identity - heterosexuality or homosexuality. The claim that sexual identity is formed in adulthood, meaning that gender is a social role, not a biologically defined fact, is the meaning core of gender ideology that has become known in our country through attempts by a number of state institutions to impose the Istanbul Convention. In addition, there are a number of assumptions for the development of homosexual orientation that are purely hypothetical and there is no reason to include them in a textbook that educates our children. The fact is that you personally voted against the Council of Ministers meeting of 3 January 2018 on item six, which is a draft decision for a proposal of the National Assembly for ratification of the Istanbul Convention, and at the same time the Ministry of Education and Science is behind texts of textbooks through which gender education is introduced in schools. And as is known, by Decision No 13 of 27 July 2018 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, gender theory as a social role was declared contrary to the Bulgarian Constitution. In view of the information presented above, I ask you the following questions: In what edition is this textbook printed and how much government money is spent on it? Do you also foresee when to withdraw this textbook from the market and from the list of textbooks approved by the Ministry of Education and Science for the system of folk education? Who approved the quoted biology textbook, which contains that sexual identity is formed at a mature age, which administrative authority and which are its members by name? Do you think it appropriate to appoint a new committee of valuers to revise the decision of the first committee in view of the Constitutional Court's decision of 27 July 2018? Does the Ministry of Education and Science provide an institutional guarantee that it is capable of protecting our children from gender ideology and gender suggestion? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u134	Thank you, Mrs. Axieva. Mr. Secretary, come in. The procedure provides for an opportunity to respond. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Axieva, thank you for the question, as there is obviously a discussion on the subject. On the other hand, talking about what we need to train and raise our children through the educational system is important for all of us both as parents and as a society. Through the educational system, we need to train and educate our children on a set of knowledge, skills and values. The law on pre-school and school education, the curriculum, the draft strategy on education work in schools that we developed, outline this perimeter of values that we need to train and educate our children. Among them is not the so-called gender ideology. As a minister and as a parent, I do not think that gender ideology should be preached in any way in school. I assure you that if there are texts in the textbooks or other events in the educational system that preach gender ideology, I will take action to stop them, whether it is a request to change the content of a textbook, stop a survey or something else. In this case, however, this is not the case. I can't see myself in the text you were referring to, insinuating a gender ideology. I'm not sensitive to the problem, so I assumed that I might not have an eye or that I wasn't such an expert on gender ideology as you. Therefore, I consulted various specialists, but they also read and see no gender ideology. Apart from that, the authors of the textbook are respected scientists, not gender ideologists. The textbook says that in adulthood young people reach social and sexual maturity. Yes, as words very close to a social gender, but quite different in importance. There is no danger that a person who is not seeing gender ideologies will be indoctrinated into such. The other discussion is that there is homosexuality. You don't expect us to hide the term "homosexualism" from 16-year-old children, do you?! As far as the term "sexual identity" is concerned, it is obvious from the context that it is about sexual orientation and not a social role. I realize that the subject is up-to-date and attractive for political speaking, I even feel a race in anti-gender rhetoric, but if we accept your logic to condemn and prohibit anything that peripheral, sound or otherwise corresponds to terms of gender ideology, we risk banning all sexual, health and even civic education. We also risk banning gender equality. We're risking anti-gender talking to grow into hysteria or censorship. We need a positive public conversation about what values to raise our children, what knowledge and skills to teach them, how to make them good people and full citizens, how to teach sexual education, which requires the delicacy of teaching, and so on. These conversations should not be conducted in the context of moral panic. Finally, I assure you once again that if there are texts in the textbooks and other manifestations in the educational system that preach the so-called gender ideology, I will take action to stop, but in this case there are none. For the textbook no state funds have been allocated, since the purchase of the textbooks for the IX grade is not financed by the state. And as for a new committee, at the request of MPs, we have formed not only a committee but also a mechanism for reviewing the content of the textbooks, texts in the textbooks for discussion, controversial moments. Over 3,500 teachers have joined this mechanism. That's why I'm saying it's not just a book-reading committee, scientists from scientific organizations, lecturers from higher schools are involved. I would ask the Commission's narrower format to pay particular attention to these texts by holding a deliberate discussion on whether there are any. If they, of course, say that there are, I am willing to respect their opinion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Axieva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u137	Mr. Minister, thank you for your answer. You yourself said, because there is a discussion on the subject, this means that I am hardly the only one who has noticed ambiguity in the text in this textbook. Apart from what I quoted, I personally purchased my book and I have met, it is not so arbitrary to speak, it is said that in adulthood permanent relationships with a partner of the other sex or the same sex are built, and in adolescence it is possible to realize sexual attraction of the same sex. These statements sound very ambiguous to me and I, as a mother, would not want my child at one age at which he is very unstable, that is the age of puberty, however, to emphasize these ideologies. I also do not think that anyone in this House would agree that this should be done almost as advertising and the exception becoming a rule. I agree that we should be tolerant, but I personally do not find, and many people I have spoken to, resonate this thing to be present in a textbook. Tolerance has nothing to do with what children should study. This particular page of the textbook also explains how fertility itself occurs, how a male or female is formed, and at the same time in a mature age you can choose to be heterosexual or homosexual. For me, it's a completely ambiguous text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-26.u138	Thank you, Mrs. Axieva. Mr. Secretary? You're not gonna take the opportunity for a douche bag. Dear Members of Parliament, this response has exhausted the Parliament's work programme for this week and the daily program. The next regular session of Parliament shall be on 31 October 2018 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
