ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u1	Good morning, colleagues! Please register. Cancel registration. [[No quorum]] . Next registration in 10 minutes. It's 9:13 a.m. open.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u2	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose to include the following additional points in the weekly Work Programme of the National Assembly: Draft decisions on changes to permanent committees with importer Tsvetan Tsvetanov on 18 October 2018. To become the first item for today's plenary session on 18 October 2018 and the previous item the first item of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act with an importer of the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. To become point two. To be included as a point in the Programme, the Second Voting of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, with importers Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs on 26 September 2018, adopted on the first vote on 4 July 2018, and to be examined after the point: Second Voting of the Draft Amendment and Supplement to the Renewable Energy Act, with the importer of the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018, adopted on the first vote on 12 September 2018. Please vote on the proposals made so. They voted 139 MPs: 121, none, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Moving on to point one: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN THE CONFIGURATION OF RESISTANCES. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev as a member of the Commission for Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Importer is Tsvetan Tsvetanov. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: for 136, they won't mind, they abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Defence Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Zaprenyan Vassilev Yankov as a member of the Defence Committee. 2. He elected Valentin Ivanov Radev as a member of the Defence Committee. 3. He elected Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev as a member of the Defence Committee. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: 138, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Interaction with Non-governmental Organizations and Citizens' Complaints The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Zapreyan Vassilev Yankov as a member of the Committee on Interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Please vote. They voted 141 MPs: 133 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Tanya Todorova Petrova as a member of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Please vote. They voted 144 MPs: 140, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Energy Commission The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Stanislav Ivanov Popov as a member of the Energy Commission. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: 140, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION completing the composition and management of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He elected Alexander Rumenov Nenkov as Deputy Chairman of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. 2. He elected Stanislav Ivanov Popov as a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Please vote. Vote 134 MPs: for 128, against none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3, Art. 3. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Tanya Todorova Petrova as a member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. 2. He elected Valentin Ivanov Radev as a member of the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Please vote. They voted 132 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Project! DECISION on the completion of the composition of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy The National Assembly on the basis of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee. All proposals were made by the chairman of the parliamentary group Mr. Tsvetanov. Please vote. They voted 143 MPs: 137, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the second item of today's agenda: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CORPORATE SUB-CROATATION. With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mrs. Menda Stoyanova will introduce us.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u3	Madam President, honourable Members! Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Department of Tax Policy and the Ministry of Finance; Mr. Rosen Ivanov, Director of the Directorate of Metodology in the NRA, and Mrs. Svetla Genova, Director of the Directorate of Tax activities and methodology.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u4	Please vote on the procedure so done. Vote 120 MPs: 114, against 3, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u5	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. At a meeting held on 16 October 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Finance Ms. Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister, Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy.Mina Yankova and Petya Kopcheva Head of Departments in the same Directorate; the Office of Customs. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the Deputy Minister of Finance Rositsa Velkova. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act introduces provisions in national law, in accordance with those in Council Directive 2016/1164/EU of 12 July 2016 laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market and specify certain provisions of the current law in order to remove uncertainties and facilitate its practical application. The Bill provides provisions limiting the possibilities for aggressive tax planning and avoidance from taxation as follows: Rule on limitation of interest deduction It is proposed to maintain the current regulation on the recognition of the interest expenses of taxable persons under art. 43 The regulation of the weak capital is governed by the current Law on Corporate Income Tax, and some proposals for changes have also been made to it. At the same time, it is proposed to introduce a new rule to limit the deduction of interest, which is in accordance with art. 4 of Directive 2016/1164. Rule for controlled foreign companies In accordance with the provisions of art. 7 and 8 of Directive 2016/1164 introduces a new regime for taxation of profits arising from foreign entities and places of business which meet the conditions for a controlled foreign company. Changes related to the revision of the provisions of the Law and the facilitation of its practical application It is possible in certain cases, although the taxable person does not operate within the meaning of the Accounting Act, that he may submit an annual tax return. Food vouchers operators shall be given the opportunity to use the amounts received from employers on the vouchers provided to them and to pay the value added tax included in the nominal value of the food vouchers. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill are proposed amendments to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the Law on Taxes and Tax Warehouses, the Law on Value Added Tax, the Act on Accounting, as well as other regulations concerning the proposed changes, which are as follows: Law on personal income taxes In order to reduce the administrative burden and facilitate the use of tax benefits for young families, children and children with disabilities, it is proposed to waive the obligation to apply a written declaration to the annual tax return by the spouse (s) that the same person will not benefit from the tax relief. With regard to tax reliefs for children and children with disabilities, the use of reliefs is offered by both parents when their income does not allow them to be applied by one parent. Those changes are also intended to apply when using tax reliefs for 2018. For self-insuring persons, it is proposed that the submission of the annual tax return and all other references and declarations be made by electronic means only. The reference for paid income under art. 73, para. 1 to be submitted by enterprises and self-insured persons by electronic means, which is currently regulated only for income paid during the tax year by more than 5 natural persons. The introduction of the proposed amendments and additions is expected to reduce the administrative burden for individuals and the costs of compliance with legislation. Law on Local Taxes and Fees A change is proposed to the concept of determining the vehicle tax for cars and trucks with a technically permissible maximum mass of not more than 3,5 tonnes and the tax is determined by a formula which includes two components of property and environmental. The property component shall take into account the power and year of production of the vehicle and the environmental component shall take into account the environmental category of the vehicle. A change in taxable load capacity of trucks with a technically permissible maximum mass of more than 3,5 tonnes but not more than 12 tonnes is proposed, instead of each starting tone, the same will be calculated for each 750 kg start-up. In order to alleviate the administrative burden, it is envisaged that notaries, when carrying out a transaction or action to acquire a motor vehicle, shall carry out a verification of the existence or absence of obligations for a vehicle tax by automated data exchange with the information exchange system maintained by the Ministry of Finance in accordance with art. 5a of the Law on Local Taxes and Fees. It is proposed that within 7 days after the transaction or operation of the acquisition of real estate or motor vehicle, notaries should notify the municipality concerned of the transferred property rights to the real estate or motor vehicle, as well as to provide information on the amount of the tax paid under art. 49, para. 2 and for the basis on which it is defined. A change in Annex No 2 is proposed for the tax assessment of real estate, according to which the correction for improvements to the sites (luxury or aluminum windows, air conditioning installation and others) is to be removed when determining the individual characteristics of the building. Tax-security procedural code A change in the Tax Insurance Procedure Code relating to the change in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees on the reduction of the administrative burden in a transaction or action for the acquisition of a motor vehicle is proposed. Law on excise duties and tax warehouses Amendments and additions to the Law on excises and tax warehouses are proposed in order to refine the provisions of the Law, remove ambiguities and facilitate its practical application. The possibility of forming audit proceedings against persons who have applied for the refund of excise duty which are not registered under the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses and the persons referred to in art. 3, para. 2 of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses where they have produced or participated in the production of excise goods, held or participated in the holding of excise goods, ordered or ordered by excise goods for which excise duty has not been paid or the excise duty has been paid in part. A joint liability is introduced for the collection of excise duties in cases of consumption of energy products outside the conditions of use of taxation. A special order shall be created in art. 45g for notification to the customs authorities of bottled alcoholic beverages and a limited series of cigars of collector value. The change is due to practical cases related to the holding of high-alcoholic beverages without a high collector value banderol. In order to reduce the administrative burden on authorised warehousekeepers, registered recipients, temporarily registered recipients and registered consignors, it is proposed to waive the requirement to provide the customs administration with the names of employees authorised to sign electronic administrative documents and save their signatures. New article shall be created. Art. 81c. 81d, which enables the sealing of objects or parts thereof for a specified period by the customs authorities in the event of the absorption of the security in whole or in part in order to prevent the generation of additional public liabilities. The scope of the sites where tobacco trade will take place shall be extended, including all sites where motor vehicles are loaded, regardless of what type of fuels they sell. Customs Law An amendment is proposed in art. 10, para. 6 in order to remove the obligation for all customs officers, except those in technical positions, to declare their property status twice to the Director of the Customs Agency and a second time in the declaration under art. 35, para. 1, t. 2 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property. Law on tobacco, tobacco and related products In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Law on Duty-Free Trade Amendments are proposed regarding the introduction of the cigarette traceability system pursuant to Article 15 of Directive 2014/40/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 3 April 2014 on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States relating to the manufacture, presentation and sale of tobacco and related products. Law on Value Added Tax There are proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Value Added Tax in connection with the harmonisation of the Bulgarian tax legislation with the requirements of the European directives and decisions of the Court of Justice of the European Union in the field of indirect taxation, as well as the need to refine provisions that create difficulties in the practical implementation of the Law. A threshold of EUR 10 000 in the provision of telecommunications services, broadcasting services and electronic services by which recipients are non-taxable persons shall be introduced. Separate rules on the treatment of vouchers for VAT purposes shall be introduced. Mediation of international adoption under the Family Code is proposed to be released delivery. Changes are envisaged regarding the obligation to provide collateral to taxable persons who supply liquid fuels over BGN 25 000 during the current tax period, dropping the requirement that the amount of collateral may not be less than BGN 50 000. It is proposed that the intra-Community supply register of new vehicles to which recipients are not registered for VAT purposes in other Member States, which leads registered persons who made such deliveries during the relevant calendar quarter, be submitted electronically and not on a technical medium. The period of application until 30 June 2022 of the mechanism for the backloading of VAT on supplies of cereals and technical crops introduced from 1 January 2014 in national law shall be extended. Accounting Law An amendment is proposed in art. 25, para. 3 which removes the requirement to stamp the entity and the printing of the accounting entity on the annual financial statements. Editorial amendments to art. 38, related to the amendments to the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, the closure of the Central Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities registered for public benefit, and the establishment of the Registry Agency for Non-Profit Legal Entities Register. Law on non-profit legal entities Art. 1 (1) (a) and (b) and (c) 18, para. 5 in order to eliminate the non-compliance with the time limits for publication of annual financial statements in the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act and the Accounting Act. Following the presentation of the Bill, a discussion was held in which the members of the Commission and representatives of industry and employers' organizations expressed principled support for the Bill. The discussion ended with a vote on the following results: On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u6	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. The report of the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism follows. Here you go, Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u7	♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 17 October 2018, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Finance: Marinela Petrova Deputy Minister, and Ludmila Petkova Director of the Department of Tax Policy and Rosen Ivanov Director of the Directorate of the National Revenue Agency; representatives of employers' and trade unions. The bill was presented by Ms. Marinela Petrova. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is the introduction into the national tax legislation of Council Directive 2016/1164/EU laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market, as well as in relation to the improvement and clarification of the provisions of the Law in order to remove ambiguities and facilitate its implementation. The bill is aimed at all taxable persons subject to corporate tax. Tax rules limiting the possibility of avoiding taxation are introduced, namely: rules on limiting interest deduction; rules on controlled foreign companies; rule on combating abuse; rule on exiting; discrepancies in hybrid education and instruments. The Law also proposes amendments relating to the clarification of the provisions of the Law and facilitates its practical application: in relation to the filing of the tax declaration; in relation to the issue of food vouchers; changes in the order for declaring and submitting corporate tax in cases of liquidation or bankruptcy. The introduction of the proposed amendments and additions to the Corporate Income Tax Act is expected to reduce the administrative burden for individuals and reduce costs, as well as to reduce the opportunities for abuse and diversions from taxation. The Transitional and Final Provisions propose changes to a number of tax laws. The Law on Income Taxes of Individuals proposes to facilitate young families in the use of tax reliefs for children and children with disabilities. A change in the tax regime of the acquired taxable cash and subject prizes from games, competitions and competitions is proposed. A number of regular references and declarations are envisaged only by electronic means. A light regime has been envisaged when paying income tax to already deceased persons. Appropriate synchronising changes are proposed with those in the Corporate Income Tax Act. In the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the most important change is the one related to the concept of determining the vehicle tax on cars and trucks with a mass of up to 3,5 tonnes. The tax will be determined by two components of property and environmental. The property will take into account the power and year of production and the environmental category of the vehicle. The change aims to eliminate the inequality between the owners of the same models of cars. An adjustment of the tax relief is envisaged for buses and trucks over 3.5 tonnes with engines corresponding to the environmental category Other changes are related to the relief of property tax for primary housing and those related to the relief of administrative burden. In this regard, it is envisaged that notaries will notify the municipality concerned within 7 days of the transaction carried out on the transferred property rights or motor vehicles. The amendments to the Tax Insurance Procedure Code relate to the changes to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees concerning the possibility for notaries to carry out verification of the existence or absence of tax obligations through the automated data exchange system of the Ministry of Finance. Essential changes are offered in the Law on excises and tax warehouses. A joint liability is introduced for the collection of excise duties in cases of consumption of energy products outside the conditions of use of taxation. It is regulated that, for the purposes of establishing the obligation to pay excise duty, there is no need to have an infringement in order to carry out revision proceedings. Supplements have been made, the main purpose of which is the equal treatment of persons requesting the refund of excise duty. The cases in which there are seized, seized or abandoned in favour of the State of distillation shall be regulated. There is a legal possibility to cancel/deactivate false requests, writings and reports for Banderols. An addition has been proposed to avoid difficulties in absorbing amounts under bank guarantees. The possibility of sealing objects or parts thereof by the customs authorities shall be regulated. The scope of the establishments where tobacco and tobacco trade takes place shall be extended. Sales of all excise goods on the internet shall be prohibited in principle. The amendments to the Customs Act are related to the removal of the obligation of all customs officers to declare their property status twice before the Director of the Customs Office and a second time in the declaration under art. 35 of the Anti-Corruption Act and the seizure of illegally acquired property. The law on duty-free trade amends the introduction of the cigarette traceability system pursuant to Directive 2014/40/EU. In the Law on Value Added Tax, the proposals for changes are grouped as follows: changes relating to the introduction into the Law on Value Added Tax of Rules of Newly Adopted European Directives; changes related to the elimination of non-compliances with the rules of Directive 2006/112/EC; proposals resulting from findings of non-compliance with European Union law; changes in relation to non-compliances of the Republic of Bulgaria and open infringement procedures; changes related to the reduction of administrative burden on citizens and businesses and those related to difficulties in the practical implementation of the Law. In the Accounting Act, proposals for changes aim at better application in practice and clearer understanding and interpretation of certain texts. In the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act, the Appendix concerns the elimination of non-compliance with the time limits for the publication of annual financial statements. A preliminary impact assessment, as well as those required under Article, has been applied to the Bill. 76 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. By its written opinion, the Confederation of Independent Trade Unions supports, in principle, the changes set out in the Bill, but at the same time highlights the need to rethink and further and targeted changes in the current model of flat taxation. The Bulgarian Chamber of Commerce and Industry and the Bulgarian Industrial Association in principle support the Bill and express considerations under part of the tax laws and make new proposals. The Association of Industrial Capital in Bulgaria does not support the Bill and refrain from commenting on the substance because it does not contain what the Association of Organizations of Bulgarian Employers proposed to amend art. 37 of the Accounting Act, which is extremely important for the Bulgarian business. The Association of Bulgarian Employers' Organizations makes a concrete proposal for amendments to the Accounting Act relating to changing the criteria for carrying out independent financial audit of commercial companies. People's representative Hristo Prodanov asked a question about controlled foreign companies and expressed an opinion on the consideration of all tax laws together in a short time. Following the conclusion of the discussion and the vote with results, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax, No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u8	Thank you, dear Mr. Kanev. Following is the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u9	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. At its extraordinary meeting held on 17 October 2018, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Combating of the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Finance: Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister; from the Department of Tax Politics.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova. The draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax has been drawn up in relation to the need to introduce into the national tax legislation of Council Directive 2016/1164/EU of 12 July 2016 laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market, as well as to improve tax legislation and refine the provisions of the law with a view to removing ambiguities and facilitating its practical application. The Bill introduces tax rules in accordance with those laid down by the Directive limiting the possibilities for aggressive tax planning and avoidance from taxation, with a rule to limit interest deduction, a rule for controlled foreign companies, a general rule for combating abuse, leaving taxation, discrepancies in hybrid entities and instruments, as well as changes relating to the precision of the provisions of the law and facilitating its practical application. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Bill are proposed amendments to the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the Law on Taxes and Tax Warehouses, the Law on Customs, as well as other regulations. The Law on personal income taxes proposes reducing the administrative burden and facilitating persons in the use of tax benefits for young families, children and children with disabilities in order to waive the obligation to apply a written declaration from the spouse. There is also a legal opportunity to use the relief by both parents, the aim being for lower income families to benefit from the full amount of relief. A change in the tax regime of the acquired cash and subject prizes from games, competitions and competitions is proposed and increase the value of the unlimited prizes from 30 to 100 BGN. As regards self-insuring persons, the submission of the annual tax return is proposed, as well as any other references and declarations and references for paid income under art. 73, para. 1 to be done by electronic means only. The Bill sets out a completely new concept for removing the paper medium of the business notes for the income acquired during the year and the tax withheld by individuals. The amendments to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees introduce a new concept for determining the vehicle tax on cars and trucks with a technically permissible maximum mass of not more than 3,5 tonnes, the tax to be determined by a formula which includes two components: property and environmental. A change in the relief for a primary residence related to property tax.. shall not apply the tax relief for a primary dwelling and the property tax shall be determined in full for all the residences of the taxable person where more than one residence is declared as a principal. Changes related to the reduction of the administrative burden provide for notaries in the implementation of a transaction or action to acquire a motor vehicle to carry out verification of the existence or absence of obligations for vehicle tax by automated data exchange with the information exchange system maintained by the Ministry of Finance. The proposals made to amend and supplement the Law on excises and tax warehouses are related to the clarification of the provisions of the law in order to remove ambiguities and facilitate its practical implementation. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 is created a new t. 8 in relation to the removal of difficulties with the interpretation that they cannot be taxable persons and therefore a revision of the proceedings against persons who applied for the refund of excise duties which are not registered under the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses and the persons referred to in art. 3, para. 2 where they have produced or participated in the production of excise goods, held or participated in the holding of excise goods, ordered or ordered by excise goods for which no excise duty has been paid, or the excise duty has been paid in part. A joint liability is introduced for the introduction of excise duties in cases of consumption of energy products outside the conditions of use of taxation. The provision of art. 12, para. 1 with the establishment of point 4 concerning the structure and rates of excise duty on processed tobacco which is fit for smoking after simple manipulation by crushing or by hand cutting, to belong to the concept of a smoking suit within the meaning of those provisions. For the purpose of establishing the duty to pay excise duty, there is no need to have an established infringement, including with an effective criminal decree, in order to be able to carry out audit proceedings. Changes are proposed due to the need to regulate cases where there are seized, seized or abandoned for the benefit of the State of distillation facilities and others that remain in storage in customs territories, including post-trial proceedings, and whose storage is linked to carrying out additional costs. The proposal for a change to the provision concerning the extension of the circle of the facilities to be withdrawn aims at limiting the possibility of carrying out an anti-dumping activity with excise goods through the use of mobile storage and transport facilities which deprives persons of the possibility of holding and transporting excise goods. The Customs Act proposes customs officials to submit a declaration of property and interests only in accordance with the order and within the time limits of art. 35 of the Law on Countering Corruption and the Withdrawal of Illegally Acquired Property. The Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act proposed changes to the technical standards for the protective elements applied to tobacco products, while it is regulated that Banderoles intended to be placed on the consumer packaging of tobacco products are used as a protective element. New provisions have also been proposed in relation to the obligation introduced with the technical standards entered into force for the establishment and operation of a tobacco traceability system. The generation of unique identifiers is necessary to be carried out by a third, independent party responsible for generating and issuing unique identifiers at consumer packaging level and large packaging level. It is proposed that the printer of the Bulgarian National Bank be the competent authority responsible for the operation of the system for tracking tobacco products. In connection with the introduction of this system, amendments are also made to the Law on Duty-Free Trade. Attitude on the presented bill took the MPs: Adlen Shevket, Dragomir Stoynev and Emil Dimitrov. Following the discussion and the vote held: with 10 votes for the Council, without the opposition, and 6 abstentions, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling proposes that the National Assembly adopt, in the first vote, a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Corporate Income Tax, No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u10	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Now follows the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u11	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I present to your attention. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers. At a regular meeting held on 17 October 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Rositsa Velkova. The proposed amendments and additions to the Corporate Income Tax Act have been drawn up in relation to the need to introduce into the national tax legislation of Council Directive 2016/1164/EU of 12 July 2016 laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market, as well as to improve tax legislation and refine the provisions of the law in order to remove ambiguities and facilitate its practical application. The Bill proposes to introduce tax rules in accordance with those laid down in Directive 2016/1164/EU limiting the possibilities for aggressive tax planning and avoidance from taxation as follows: a rule to limit the deduction of interest, a rule for controlled foreign companies, a general rule for combating abuse, leaving taxation and discrepancies in hybrid entities and instruments. With the transitional and final provisions of the Bill are proposed amendments to the Law on Local Taxes and Fees concerning the activities of municipalities directly. A new concept is proposed to determine the vehicle tax for cars and trucks with a technically permissible maximum mass of not more than 3,5 tonnes, namely the tax to be determined by a formula which includes two components: property and environmental. The property component shall take into account the power and year of production of the vehicle and the environmental component shall take into account the environmental category of the vehicle, respectively the pollution caused by the vehicle concerned. In relation to the proposed new method of taxation, it is envisaged that the relief for vehicles with an active catalyst does not apply. Another significant change is the assumption that the tax relief for basic housing and the property tax should not be applied to all residences of the taxable person where more than one residence is declared as basic. In Annex No 2 the Real Estate Tax Assessment Norms is proposed to cancel the correction for improvements to the sites (luxury or aluminum windows, air conditioning installation and others) when determining the individual characteristics of the building. The change aims at removing property characteristics that are morally outdated and which currently do not apply and cannot be a characteristic of a property. Changes related to the relief of administrative burdens have also been proposed. The Commission received opinions from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian Industrial Association and the Industrial Capital Association in Bulgaria, where concrete proposals were made to refine individual provisions. During the discussion the MPs supported the need to adopt the proposed changes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers and 2 votes for the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, proposed to the National Assembly an amendment and supplement to the Law on Corporate Income Tax, No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Dimitrov. And the latest report is from the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u13	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act, No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. At its regular meeting held on 17 October 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Ministry of Finance, Ms. Mina Yankova and Mrs. Petya Kopcheva, Head of Departments in the Directorate of Tax Policy and Ms. Tatiana Nakova, Senior Expert in the same Directorate. The Law amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act provides for the introduction into the national tax legislation of Council Directive 2016/1164/EU of 12 July 2016 laying down rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market and in relation to the improvement of tax legislation and the clarification of the provisions of the Law in order to remove ambiguities and facilitate its practical application. The provisions of the Directive adopt rules against tax avoidance practices which directly affect the functioning of the internal market. According to the reasons of the Bill, the Directive is a response to the completion of the project to combat the contraction of the tax base and the transfer of profits to the G20 and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, as well as to the requests by the European Parliament, business and civil society for a more powerful and more coherent approach of the European Union against abuses in the field of corporate taxation. With the introduction of the Directive in national tax law, the Republic of Bulgaria is expected to fulfil its commitments to the European Union and to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development to implement European Union legislation and implement internationally accepted standards and recommendations of the organisation regarding the prevention of the contraction of the tax base and the transfer of profits. The directive covers all taxpayers subject to corporate tax. In this regard, the provisions of the proposed bill are directed at all taxable persons subject to corporate tax under the Corporate Income Tax Act. The bill contains amendments to the provisions of both the Law on Corporate Income Tax and the Transitional and Final Provisions and the Rules of the Law on Income Taxes of Individuals, the Law on Local Taxes and Fees, the Law on Taxes and Tax Storages, the Law on Value Added Tax, the Law on Accounting, the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities and the Law on Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products. The Tax Insurance Procedure Code is also intended to be amended in relation to proposals in tax laws. By the changes imposed by the Draft Law, the main problems in tax legislation are also expected to be solved, including: the existence of administrative burden and costs for businesses and citizens arising from the obligations in tax laws; the damage to the budget due to the existence of tax evasion and non-prevention opportunities, aggressive tax planning and tax evasion; the deficiencies found and discrepancies between the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act and the Accounting Act; the difficulties in the practical application of the laws due to insufficiently clear and precise legal provisions. In the subsequent discussion Mr. Petar Petrov, Vice-President of KEVKEF asked what is the rate of VAT collection in Bulgaria, because according to data he received from the working visit of KEVKEF in Romania, the collection rate was 60 per cent. In addition, he also requested information on whether ownership of agricultural land is to be taxed. Mrs. Petkova recalled that in a previous survey by the European Commission Bulgaria was in one of the last places on VAT collection and informed that as a result of a number of measures taken in the last such study Bulgaria is already on one of the top positions in a positive aspect. Regarding the issue concerning the imposition of a tax on agricultural land, Mrs. Petkova explained that after an analysis of the practice of other European countries, only two countries have a tax on agricultural land, so no such step is planned at this stage. Mr. Dimitar Avramov asked a question regarding the return of VAT on cereals and technical crops whether it will continue in the future, within what deadlines is it envisaged to expand the circle of goods for which recharge will be introduced and what are the effects of this practice so far. Mrs. Petkova informed that the extension of the deadline was foreseen until 2022 because the budget effect has been positive so far. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, with 5 votes..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor for speeches. There are no speeches. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Corporate Income Tax Act No 802-01-39, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 11 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u15	Vote, honourable Members. They voted 129 MPs: 95, against 3, abstention 31. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u16	Madam President, honourable Members! I'm surprised at the lack of discussion on such an important bill. I personally voted against it, because with this bill I do not know whether they understand what we have done today? Today we tested the most vulnerable social strata in the country, namely those Bulgarian citizens who drive cars over 15 years old. This is the table of Bulgarian citizens. How many Bulgarian citizens can afford to buy a new eco-mobile to benefit from these discounts that you predicted today to make? Dear colleagues, we in the Bulgarian Socialist Party support ecology, of course, but who thinks about these Bulgarian citizens, who will raise taxes in just a few months?! What did we do today? Are we gonna get these people to buy new cars?! There is no way to make them because there is no income policy, dear ones, we have a policy to increase the taxes, which then goes in an unknown direction. In just a few months, we are going to vote on the State Budget Act. Will the funds that should occur in the municipalities' treasuries go in the right direction? They will not go for a walk because this policy is disastrous, honourable, and at the moment I am surprised by your disinterest in what you do without discussion, without special debates, you have made people become even more impoverished. This, unfortunately, is an extremely bad practice that is characteristic of this particular government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u17	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u18	Thank you. Please put to the vote a procedure on the grounds of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, the period between the first and second reading of the Law, which we have just adopted, shall be 6 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u19	We vote on Mrs. Menda Stoyanova's procedural proposal under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 the Vote 124 MPs: 88, against 30, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Now we proceed to the next item on the agenda: A SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADDUCTION OF THE LAW FOR THE ENERGY OF RENEWABLE SOURCIES, No 802-01-22. It was introduced by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018, adopted at the first vote on 12 September 2018. Mr. Dobrev, welcome to the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u20	Madam President, honourable Members! First, I make a procedural proposal on the grounds of art. 29, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the House of Zhecho Stankov Deputy Minister of Energy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u21	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. We are voting on the procedural proposal for admission to the Deputy Minister's Chamber. Vote 107 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. We're getting to the point.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u22	Report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Renewable Energy Act No 802-01-22, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 19 June 2018, adopted on the first vote on 12 September 2018. "Renewal Energy Act' is amended and supplemented. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u23	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of the Import Act. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u24	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 3a: Art. 3a. The definition of the state policy to promote the production of new generation biofuels shall take into account the priority order of waste, including life cycle requirements and the overall impact of the formation and management of specific waste streams, according to art. 6 of the Waste Management Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u25	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 1. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u26	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 3 is Art. 5a. (1) Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry: 1. organise the collection and aggregation of information on the potential, production and consumption of raw materials from agriculture, livestock and forestry for the production of biofuels and biofuels; 2. prepare an analysis of the impact of the use of cereals and other starch-rich crops, sugar or oil crops as raw materials for the production of biofuels and biomass fuels in the Republic of Bulgaria on the food balance of the country. (2) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall provide the information and analysis to the Minister of Energy in relation to the updating of the NREVI and the preparation of its implementation reports.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u27	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission's version of § 2. Vote 87 MPs: for 86, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u28	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12, para. 3 is added at the end, including those used for the production of renewable liquid and gaseous fuels of non-organic origin in transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u29	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting in the version of § 3 as it is on the Report. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u30	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by the Art. 12a. (1) Taking into account the achievement of the mandatory national objective under art. 12, para. 1, the maximum quantity of biofuels and biomass fuels produced from cereals and other starch-rich crops, sugar or oil crops and crops grown as main crops mainly for the production of energy on agricultural land shall not exceed the amount of energy corresponding to 7 percent of the final consumption of energy in transport. (2) Taking into account the binding share of renewable energy in transport, the maximum quantity of biofuels consumed in transport produced from cereals and other starch-rich crops, sugar or oil crops and crops grown as main crops mainly for the production of energy on agricultural land shall not exceed the amount of energy consumed in transport corresponding to 7 per cent of the final consumption of energy in transport. (3) In the quantity by para. 2 does not include new generation biofuels. (4) In the quantity under para. 2 shall not include biofuels consumed in transport produced from crops grown as main crops mainly for the production of energy on agricultural land other than cereals and other starch-rich crops, sugar or oil crops, under the following conditions: 1. verification of compliance with the sustainability criteria has been carried out; 2. crops are grown on land for which there is evidence that it was not used for agricultural or other activities in January 2008 and which falls within one of the following categories: (a) land of highly degraded quality, including land used for agricultural purposes, provided that a steady increase in carbon stocks and a significant reduction in erosion is ensured; (b) highly contaminated land, provided that permanent lowering of soil contamination is ensured; 3. in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions, for the purpose of fulfilling the requirements of art. 37, para. 1, t. A premium of 29 gCO2eq/MJ according to the methodology referred to in Article 4 is also included. 44, para. 3. (5) A national target of 0,05 percentage points of energy content from the mandatory share of renewable energy in all modes of transport shall be set for biofuels of a new generation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u31	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission's version of § 4. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u32	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 2 the following amendments and 1. point 11 is amended as follows: "11." the development and share of biofuels from a new generation, including the assessment of the contribution to the sustainability of raw materials for the production of biofuels replacing food and feed crops, taking into account the priority order of waste under art. 6 of the Waste Management Act, opportunities for combined use of biomass as raw material and energy source, in line with regional and local economic and technical conditions, maintenance of the required carbon stock in soil and soil and ecosystem quality; 2. A t is created. 18: 18. the quantities of biofuels and biomass fuels produced from cereals and other starch-rich crops, sugar and oil crops, expressed in energy equivalents (energy units), for each group of raw materials that have been reported for the purposes under art. 12 and compliance with the restrictions under art. 12a, para. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u33	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the wording of § 5 in the version of the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u34	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 6, 7 and 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u35	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for paragraphs 6, 7 and 8. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u36	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, i.e. 4 the words.. make efforts to strengthen cooperation...............................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u37	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall vote on the text of the importer for § 9 with the proposed version of the article. Four that was just read. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u38	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... Article 47 is amended as follows: Art. 47. (1) Persons who place oil-based liquid fuels on the market in transport for release for consumption within the meaning of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses shall offer fuels for diesel and petrol engines mixed with biofuels in percentage terms as follows: 1. fuel for diesel engines with a biodiesel content of at least 6 per cent volume; 2. a fuel for petrol engines with bioethanol and/or ethers produced from biomass, at least 7 per cent volume; 3. from 1 April 2019 For diesel engines with a minimum of 6 per cent volume of biodiesel, at least one percentage volume of biodiesel shall be a new generation biofuel; 4. from 1 September 2018 fuel for petrol engines with a bioethanol content and/or ethers produced from biomass, at least 8 per cent volume; 5. from 1 March 2019 Fuel for petrol engines with a bioethanol content and/or ethers produced from biomass, at least 9 per cent volume. (2) Distributors in each distribution and final distributors shall offer fuels for petrol and diesel engines in transport in accordance with the requirements of para. 1, t. 1 and 2. (3) The distributors in each distribution shall offer the fuels for petrol and diesel engines in transport in accordance with the requirements of para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 within one month after the expiry of the relevant period. (4) The final distributors shall offer the fuels for diesel and petrol engines in transport in accordance with the requirements of para. 1, t. 3, 4 and 5 within two months of the expiry of the relevant period.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u39	Thank you, Mr. Dobrev, but you missed § 10. Please read the Commission proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u40	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u41	Are there any statements under § 10 and § 11? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 10 and the version of the Commission for § 11. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u42	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 2 and 3 are amended as follows: The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011. (3) The persons under para. 1 provide the first distributor with a certified copy of the declaration of conformity of the account concerned. The copy shall indicate the quantity of liquid fuel, the distributor to which it is provided, the date and number of the dispatch document, and the number and date of the declaration of conformity shall be entered in all other documents accompanying the lot. 2. They're creating an al. 4 and 5. The distributor shall provide each subsequent distributor, including a final distributor, with a certified copy of the declaration of compliance of the account concerned. The copy shall indicate the quantity of liquid fuel to which it is supplied, the date and number of the dispatch document, and the number and date of the declaration of conformity shall be entered in all other documents accompanying the lot. (5) The persons under para. 1, distributors and final distributors in verification shall provide officials with the declaration of conformity or a certified copy thereof, as well as the documents for an expedition of the fuel inspected or a copy thereof.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u43	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 12. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u44	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 14 be rejected. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u45	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 13; the motion to reject § 14 made by the Commission; the wording of the importer for § 15, which becomes § 14; and the text of the importer for § 16, which becomes § 15. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u46	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u47	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 17, which becomes § 16. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u48	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. Paragraph 1 of the additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) (a) in point (b) point (d) shall be created: (d) New generation biofuels. (d) 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 24, point (c) at the end of the sentence, the first sentence shall be added, except where the extraction of raw materials from specified artificial pastures is necessary to preserve the pasture and the second sentence shall be deleted. 3. They're creating a t. 30 s 42: 30. The new generation biofuels are the new generation biofuels of the new generation type A and the new generation biofuels of the new generation type B. 31. Biofuels from a new generation of type A are biofuels produced from the following raw materials and fuels: (a) algae grown on land in pools or in photobioreactors; (b) biomass fraction in mixed household waste, but not separate household waste, which is to be recycled according to art. 31, para. 1, t. 1 of the Waste Management Act; (c) biowaste, within the meaning of § 1, point 2 of the additional provisions of the Waste Management Act, from private households which are subject to separate collection within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 34 of the additional provisions of the same law; (d) a fraction of biomass in industrial waste which is not to be used in the food or feed chain, including wholesale and retail materials, from the food industry, agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture, with the exception of biofuels of a new generation of type B (e) straw; (f) manure and sludge from waste water treatment; (g) waste water from palm oil production and empty palm fruit grapes; (h) Tall oil resin; (i) crude glycerin; (k) bagasa; (l) grape marc and wine sludge; (m) walnut shells; n) pods; (o) cobs cleaned from corn grains; (p) a fraction of biomass in waste and residues from forestry and related industries such as bark, branches, logging, leaves, needles, tree tips, chips, thalash, black lye, brown lye containing fiber sludges, lignin and tall oil; (q) other non-food cellulose materials; (c) other lignocellular materials, except wood logs and veneer logs; (t) renewable liquid and gaseous fuels of non-organic origin in transport; (y) carbon caught and used for transport purposes if the energy source is renewable; (f) bacteria if the energy source is renewable; (x) raw materials included in a corresponding delegated act of the European Commission. 32. Biofuels from a new generation of type Bs are biofuels produced from: (a) used cooking oil; (b) animal fats classified in categories 1 and 2 under Regulation (EC) No 1069/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 October 2009 laying down health rules as regards animal by-products and derived products not intended for human consumption and repealing Regulation (EC) No). 33. "Worlds' are crops comprising mainly cereals (whether only grains are used, or the whole plant is used, such as courge corn), root and tuber vegetables (such as potatoes, earth apples, sweet potatoes, manioc and ignam) and tuber vegetables (such as taro and malanga). 34. Renewable liquid and gaseous fuels of non-biological origin in transport shall be liquid or gaseous fuels other than biofuels whose energy content comes from renewable energy sources other than biomass and used in transport. 35. "Lignocelular materials' are materials made up of lignin, cellulose and hemicellulose, such as biomass of forests, wood energy crops and residues and forestry waste and related industries. 36. Non-food materials are raw materials made mainly of cellulose and hemicellulose, which have a lower lignin content than lignocellular materials. These include residues of food and feed crops (e.g. straw, stalks, pods and shells), grassy energy crops with low starch content (e.g. ryegrass, gungrass, elephant grass, giant cane and crops to protect and improve the soil before and after main crops), industrial residues (including food and feed crops after the extraction of vegetable oils, sugars, starch and protein) and materials from biodegradable waste. 37. The product concerned is a substance which is not the intended end product or finished product of a production process. The substance is not the main purpose of the production process and the process has not been modified specifically so that it is produced. 38. "Frequency of forestry, agriculture and fisheries and aquaculture' are residues which are produced directly from forestry, agriculture and fisheries and aquaculture. They do not include residues of the related industries or of processing. 39. Any substance or object from which the holder is released or intends to be released or is required to be released, with the exception of substances which have been intentionally altered or contaminated, to comply with that definition. 40. "Spatter" is any person carrying out the distribution of liquid fuels within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 23 of the additional provisions of the Atmospheric Air Cleanliness Act. 41. The land with a severely deteriorated quality is a land that has for a considerable period of time been significantly salted or has a particularly low organic content and has severe erosion. 42. "Multiplely contaminated land' is a land that is not fit for food or feed because of soil contamination.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u49	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for § 18, which becomes § 17. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u50	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u51	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the name of the importing division. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u52	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. This law introduces requirements of art. 2 and Annex II of Directive (EU) 2015/1513 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 September 2015 amending Directive 98/70/EC on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending Directive 2009/28/EC on the promotion of the use of renewable energy (OB, L 239/1 of 15 September 2015)) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u53	Are there any speeches, remarks? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 19, which becomes § 18. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u54	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of the division
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u55	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made by the Commission for a change in the name of the division "Transitional and final provisions." 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u56	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm The Minister of Energy shall draw up and submit to the European Commission by 31 December 2020 a report on the results achieved for the implementation of the national objective under art. 12a, para. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u57	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 20, which becomes § 19. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u58	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. (1) For the implementation of Decision of the European Commission No C (2016) 5205 of 4 August 2016 under the procedure State aid SA.44840 (2016/NN) 1. the public supplier for the period from 1 July 2011 to 30 April 2016, funds amounting to BGN 1 146 965,51• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. the public supplier for the period from 1 May 2016 to 30 June 2018, the funds set by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission; 3. In the period from 1 July 2018 until the entry into force of this law, funds of the amount set by the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory. (2) The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall determine the amount of the funds under para. 1, t. 2 and 3 on the basis of the amount of electricity from renewable sources entered the electricity system of the Republic of Bulgaria from neighbouring Member States of the European Union and consumed by end customers connected to this system by the transmission network operator and electricity distribution network operators and the price or component of the price under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17 in accordance with art. 35, para. 6 of the Energy Act, defined by the Commission for the relevant price periods. The amount shall be set for each calendar year within three months of publication of Eurostat data for the year concerned. (3) The amount of electricity from renewable sources for a neighbouring Member State of the European Union shall be defined as a share of the total amount of electricity entered into the electricity system of the Republic of Bulgaria from that country and consumed by end-users connected to that system by the transmission network operator and distribution grid operators for a corresponding period corresponding to the share of electricity from renewable sources from gross electricity production in that country. (4) The total amount of electricity entered into the electricity system of the Republic of Bulgaria as a neighbouring Member State of the European Union and consumed by end customers connected to that system by the transmission system operator and distribution network operators shall be determined by reference to the data of the transmission network operator and the share of electricity from renewable sources from gross electricity production in the country concerned, according to Eurostat data for the relevant year. (5) The Energy and Water Regulatory Commission shall inform the public supplier and the Fund. 2. (6) The transmission network operator shall spend the funds provided for the construction of an intersystem power line 400 kV "Maritsa-east" as defined in the decision under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u59	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the version of § 21, which becomes § 20. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u60	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u61	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 22, which becomes § 21. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u62	According to § 23 there is a proposal of the MPs Delyan Dobrev and Valentin Nikolov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the National Representative Delyan Dobrev, made under art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Energy Act (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) paragraph 6 is amended as follows: The final customers under para. 5, the transmission network operator and the distribution network operators shall pay the part of the price or component of the price under art. 30, para. 1, t. 17 for the allocation of costs arising from premium and buy-in obligations at preferential prices of electricity produced from renewable sources. (b) the creation of para. 7 and 8: The final customers under para. 5, the operator of the transmission network and the operators of the distribution networks shall not pay the costs under para. 6 for the quantities of electricity produced in other Member States of the European Union and for which guarantees of origin of electricity from renewable sources issued by the competent authorities of those countries are recognised in the Republic of Bulgaria according to the provisions of art. 35 of the Renewable Energy Act. (8) For the quantities of electricity under para. 7 persons under art. 36g, para. 1, t. 1 and 3 settle their relationship with the Fund "Safety of the power system" under the terms and conditions of the ordinance under art. 36k. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 3 sentence third in the text before t. 1 after the word "Presents" shall be added within the 25th of the current month and shall be created at the same time. 3: "3." insurance that ensures the fulfilment of the obligation under para. 1 by covering the liability of the trader or manufacturer. (b) in para. 4 sentences are created second, third and fourth: "When the obligations under para. 1 are insured, its validity period is 12 months and the premium is paid once and the debtor is designated as the third beneficiary of that insurance. The insurance cannot be used to secure liability under another obligation. In the event of withdrawal of an insurance licence for the obligation under para. 1 new security shall be provided within 7 days of the withdrawal of the licence. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36z, para. 1 sentence 2 shall be added at the end, and shall be subject to prior implementation. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 4 after the words (b) in para. 5 is finally added as well as for transactions concluded by producers of electricity from renewable sources with sites put into operation after 1 January 2019. 5. In § 68 of the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act (prom., SG No. ...): (a) A new para shall be created. 2: "According to the laws of the Member States of the European Union, the laws of the Member States of the European Union and of the Member States of the European Union, of the European Union, of the one part, and of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, of the other part, of the other part, of the other part, of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European Union, of the European 1. the electricity produced from these objects shall be measured in total with the commercial measuring instruments existing on 8 May 2018; and 2. the premises are subject to the same preferential price and net specific production and apply the same buying-in period. (b) The current para. 2, 3 and 4 become respectively para. 3, 4 and 5; c) the current para. 5 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by......................................................................................................... In the case of aid granted under Article 107 (d) The current para. 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10 become respectively. 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11; (e) the current para. 11 becomes para. 12 and in it the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): the following points are inserted after point 11 (Commission (f) the current para. 12 becomes para. 13 and in it the words are said. 9 and 11 are replaced by........................................................................................................... 10 and 12 (g) the current para. 13 becomes para. 14; (h) the creation of para. 15: In the cases referred to in para. 2 for sites with a total installed capacity below 4 MW, the manufacturer shall notify the Commission of energy and water regulation prior to the conclusion of the premium compensation contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u63	I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches, considerations, remarks, suggestions? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 23, which becomes § 22. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been adopted and the Bill has been adopted. Thank you, Mr. Dobrev. We move to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW ON FISHING AND AQUACULTURES. Mrs. Taneva, we're waiting for you in the stands.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u64	Dear Madam President, I ask for permission in the hall of Mr. Julian Markov, Director of the Department of Affairs and Industry at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u65	We are voting on Mr. Markov's motion for admission. Vote 78 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I ask Mr. Markov to be invited to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u66	Report on the Draft Law amending the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 854-01-57, submitted by Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018, adopted on the first vote on 4 July 2018. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. The Commission supports the text of the importer in principle and proposes the following version of the name of the Law: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u67	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of the name of the Law. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u68	The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 2 the words.. recognized as
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u69	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 1. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u70	There is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... Article 10 is amended as Art. 10. (1) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall recognise organisations of producers of fishery products, organisations of aquaculture products and associations of producer organisations which comply with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, amending Council Regulations (EC) No 1184/2006 and (EC) No 1224/2009 and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 12. 2013), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 1372/2014', and to the ordinance under art. 10d, para. 1. (2) Organization of producers of fishery products and organisation of aquaculture products shall be established at the initiative of producers of fishery products and/or producers of aquaculture products in order to achieve the objectives set out in art. 7 and implementation of the measures under art. 8 of Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013. (3) The organization under para. 2 may be a collection company, a limited liability company, a legal person registered under the terms and conditions of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities, or a cooperative, with the exception of a cooperative union under art. 54, para. 3 of the Co-operatives Act. (4) Association of producer organisations shall be established at the initiative of recognised producer organisations under para. 2 to achieve the objectives set out in art. 10 of Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013. (5) The association of producer organisations may be a collection company, a limited liability company, a legal entity registered under the terms and conditions of the Non-Profit Legal Entities Act or a cooperative union. (6) For recognition under para. 1 the organisation or association concerned shall apply to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry under the conditions and under the order of the ordinance under art. 10d, para. 1. (7) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall, by order, appoint a Standing Committee which shall carry out a verification of compliance with the conditions of recognition and shall express an opinion on recognition or refusal of recognition. The Commission shall include representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, the State Fund of Agriculture and the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture. (8) Within three months of submission of the application under para. 6, on the basis of the opinion of the Commission, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue an order recognising or motivated refusing recognition of the organisation or association. (9) Within 8 weeks of the entry into force of the recognition order, the organisation under para. 2 submit for approval to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry a plan for production and marketing under art. 28 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013. The Commission under para. 7 carry out checks to implement the approved plan. (10) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall, by order, withdraw the recognition: 1. where the organisation or association ceases to comply with the relevant recognition conditions; 2. when the order under para. 8 was issued on the basis of incorrect data; 3. where a serious infringement or fraud has been detected by an act of a competent authority when carrying out the activities of the organisation or association has entered into force; 4. when the organisation or association uses the recognition received for purposes other than those referred to in art. 7 or art. 10 of Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013; 5. at the request of the management body of the organisation or association; 6. upon termination of the legal person and deletion of his entry from the Commercial Register or from the register of non-profit legal entities; 7. at the request of the European Commission in the cases referred to in art. 20 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013. (11) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry by order may withdraw recognition if the approved production and marketing plan under para. 9 by criteria defined in the regulation under art. 10d, para. 1. (12) The orders under para. 8, 10 and 11 shall be notified and may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u71	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 1, which becomes § 2. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u72	Under § 2 an importer has received a proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2, which shall become § 3: .................................................. Article 10c is amended as follows: Art. 10c. (1) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall recognise interbranch organisations in the fisheries sector which shall comply with the requirements of Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013 and the ordinance under art. 10d, para. 1. (2) An interbranch organisation shall be established at the initiative of producers, traders and/or processors of fishery and/or aquaculture products in order to achieve the objectives set out in art. 12 and for the implementation of the measures referred to in art. 13 of Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013. (3) The interbranch organisation shall be a legal entity registered under the terms and conditions of the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities. (4) For recognition under para. 1 the relevant interbranch organisation shall apply to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry under the conditions and under the order of the ordinance under art. 10d, para. 1. (5) The Commission under art. 10, para. 7 performs a verification of compliance with the conditions of recognition and expresses an opinion on recognition or refusal of recognition. (6) Within three months of submission of the application under para. 4, on the basis of the opinion of the Commission, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue an order recognising or motivated refusing recognition of the interbranch organisation. (7) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall by order withdraw the recognition of an interbranch organisation: 1. when the organisation ceases to meet the conditions for recognition; 2. when the order under para. 6 was issued on the basis of incorrect data; 3. where a serious infringement or fraud has been detected in carrying out the activities of the organisation by an act of a competent authority which has entered into force; 4. when the organisation uses the recognition received for purposes other than those referred to in art. 12 of Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013; 5. at the request of the management body of the organisation; 6. upon termination of the legal person and deletion of his registration from the register of non-profit legal entities; 7. at the request of the European Commission in the cases referred to in art. 20 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013. (8) The orders under para. 6 and 7 are reported and may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u73	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting in the version of the Commission of § 2 which becomes § 3. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u74	Under § 3 an importer has received a proposal from the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ Article 10d is amended as follows: Art. 10 years. (1) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall determine by decree: 1. the arrangements for recognition of organisations of producers of fishery products and/or aquaculture products, associations of producer organisations and interbranch organisations in the fisheries sector; 2. the order for monitoring the activities of recognised organisations and associations under point 2. 1; 3. the arrangements for the approval of the production and marketing plans and the arrangements for the control of their implementation. (2) The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture shall publish on their websites up-to-date lists of organisations and associations recognised under art. 10 or 10c.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u75	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 3, which becomes § 4. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u76	According to paragraph 4, an importer has a proposal from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u77	Are there any speeches? No. We vote on the text of the importer for § 4, which becomes § 5. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u78	The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25d, para. 1, t. 10 words. The following points are
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u79	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal to create § 6 with the text which has been read. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u80	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u81	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 5, which becomes § 7. Vote 78 MPs: for 77, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u82	The Commission proposes to establish § 8 and § 9: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is The individual quotas within a defined total allowable catch and/or quota shall be allocated through organisations recognised under art. 10 or 10c. The individual quotas for fishing vessels whose owners or users do not belong to recognised by art. 10 or 10 in organizations are distributed by the IRA. (10) Conditions and procedure for allocation of allowances between organisations recognised under art. 10 or 10c and fishing vessels whose owners or users are not members of such vessels shall be designated by the order under para. 8..................................................... ..................................................... In the additional provisions of § 1, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 51 and 52: "51." The management of the fleet is a set of administrative measures related to the entry and discharge of fishing vessels in the register of fishing vessels of the Republic of Bulgaria, as well as the terms and conditions for the allocation of free fishing capacity in the maritime fleet. 52. The amount to be reported in this column shall be the amount to be reported in this column. 4 (1) (b) 24 of Regulation (EU) No 1380/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the common fisheries policy, amending Council Regulations (EC) No 1954/2003 and (EC) No 1224/2009 and repealing Council Regulations (EC) No 2371/2002 and (EC) No 639/2004 and Council Decision 2004/585/EC.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u83	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of new paragraphs 8 and 9 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: 79 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u84	The Commission proposes to set up a section of the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria and of the Republic of Moldova with § 10, 11 and 12: "Transitional and final provisions' § 10. Branch organisations which, at the date of the entry into force of this law, have entered into force orders for recognition under art. 10c, may allocate individual allowances according to Art. 30 within six months of the entry into force of this law. § 11. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue the ordinance under art. 10d, para. 1 within three months of the entry into force of this law. § 12. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u85	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a "Transitional and final provisions" by paragraphs 10, 11 and 12. Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. The proposal has been adopted and the Bill has been adopted. Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSATION OF MEDICAL SISTERS, ACHUSHERKS AND ASSOCIATED MEDICAL SPECIALISTS. Adopted at first vote on 18 July 2018. Please, Mrs. Daritkova, we're waiting patiently for you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u86	Dear Madam President, dear colleagues! Report on the second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, No 854-01-46, submitted by Daniela Daritkova and a group of MPs on 8 June 2018, adopted at the first vote on 18 July 2018. The Law on the Word Organization of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals is amended and supplemented by the Law on the Word Organization of Nurses. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u87	Are there any statements on the name of the Law? I won't. We vote on the name of the Law. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u88	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u89	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote paragraphs 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 by importer. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u90	Proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5, para. 1 is added
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u91	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 7. Vote 71 MPs: for 69, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u92	According to § 7 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In The Profession "Zubotechnik" and the profession "Post-pharmacist" shall be exercised by persons who hold a diploma for acquired higher education in the relevant specialty of the educational and qualification degree "Professional Bachelor" under.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 42, para. 1, t. 1 (a) (b) of the Higher Education Act. (c)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u93	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 7, which becomes § 8. 70 MPs voted: 68, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u94	Under § 8 there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 8. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by The professional activities that nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, as well as assistant pharmacists, may carry out by appointment or self-employment, as well as the professional activities that dental technicians may carry out by appointment, shall be determined by a decree issued by the Minister of Health, in consultation with the relevant word organisation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u95	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 8, which becomes § 9. Vote 66 MPs: for 66, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. A well-deserved 30-minute break, then the work on this bill will continue. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u96	Dear colleagues, we're going to start work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u97	According to § 9 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 8 is amended as follows: Art. 8. The responsible organisations of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists shall: 1. represent their members and protect their professional rights and interests; 2. establish and keep national electronic professional registers and regional professional registers of their members; 3. determine the terms and conditions of entry in the registers under point 3. 2 of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, dentists and assistant pharmacists and the rules for issuing a certificate of qualification by profession; 4. adopt codes of professional ethics of the specialists concerned and exercise control over their compliance; 5. adopt rules for good medical practice in healthcare in the relevant professional field, offer them for validation by the Minister of Health and exercise control over their compliance; 6. impose the penalties provided for in this Law; 7. organise, coordinate, conduct, register and control the continuing training of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists under conditions and by order defined in contracts with higher medical schools and postgraduate training facilities; 8. adopt a Qualification Framework for the professional development of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists, consisting of qualification levels; 9. participate with a representative with a consultative voice in the Supreme Medical Council of the Minister of Health, and a representative of the assistant pharmacists participate with a consultative voice in the High Pharmacy Council; 10. give opinions on draft health regulations carried out by the healthcare professionals concerned; 11. cooperate with other bodies, organizations and institutions in the country and abroad; 12. assist their members and their families in the event of need under the rules of the organisation; 13. carry out other activities provided for in their statutes; 14. provide the Ministry of Health with the information referred to in Article 14. 185, para. 3 and 4 of the Health Act. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10, which shall become § 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u98	Thank you. Colleagues, speeches? There are no speeches. I shall put two texts to the vote: the first text is the version proposed by the Commission for § 9, which becomes § 10; and the second text............................................................................................. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u99	Under Paragraph 11, there is a proposal of the National Representative Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with Article 11. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1bbreviation of the instrument is replaced by the corresponding word organisation. 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The representatives referred to in paragraph 2 shall be represented by the members of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of The terms and procedure of their selection shall be laid down in the statutes of the relevant word organisation. 3. In para. The third sentence is replaced by the corresponding word organisation. According to § 12, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the abbreviation "BAS' is replaced by the corresponding word organisation. (b) c. 1 the abbreviation "BAS' is replaced by the corresponding word organisation. (c) point 2 is amended as follows: "2." adopt, supplement and amend the Code of Professional Ethics of the specialists concerned, propose it to the Minister of Health for the Promotion and Promulgation in the Official Journal and carry out the monitoring of its compliance; (d) point 3 is repealed; (e) c. 4 shall be added at the end of the procedure laid down in the statutes of the relevant word organisation; (f) c. 5 the word "Organisation' is replaced by "Organisations'; (g) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. select and dismiss the President and Vice-Presidents of the National Quality Board, the representative of the relevant word organization in the High Medical Council to the Minister of Health, as well as the representative of the word organisation in the High Pharmacy Council; (h) c. 9 abbreviations "BAS' shall be replaced by the corresponding word organisation. (i) c. 10 abbreviations "BAC" shall be replaced by the corresponding word organisation. 2. In para. 2 abbreviations "BAS" shall be replaced by the corresponding word organisation. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u100	Colleagues, speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 11, which shall become § 12; the version proposed by the Commission for the text § 12, which shall become § 13; the text of the importer of § 13, which shall become § 14; and the text of the importer which shall become § 15. Please, voting mode. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u101	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 16, § 17, § 18, § 19 and § 20, suggesting that they become § 17, § 18, § 18, § 19, § 20 and § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u102	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for § 15, which shall become § 16, and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 16, 17, 18, 19 and 20, which shall become paragraphs 17, 18, 19, 20 and 21. Please, voting mode. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u103	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 21 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the word "quality" is added. 2. In para. 4 is added at the end. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and Under § 22, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text pa the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 21a: Art. 21a. (1) The National Quality Board of BAS and BAFF shall consist of a Chair, Vice-President and at least three members. The number of members, conditions and arrangements for the election of the President, the Vice-President and the Members shall be laid down in the statutes of the relevant word organisation. (2) The President and Vice-President of the National Quality Board of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences shall be persons who have the relevant professional qualifications certified with a diploma in the relevant professional direction and shall be elected and released in accordance with the rules of the relevant word organisation. (3) The President and Vice-President of the National Quality Council of BAS and of BAPF shall be elected by the Congress of the relevant word organization for a term of five years, but for no more than two mandates. (4) If necessary, the National Quality Board of BAS and BAFF shall attract external experts when solving a particular problem. The Chairman of the relevant National Quality Board shall send an invitation to the external experts. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u104	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote three texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 21, which shall become § 22; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 22, which shall become § 23; and the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24 and shall be supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u105	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Chapter 4, the name of Section II is hereby amended as follows: Regional Colleges. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u106	Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 24, which becomes § 25; the text of the importer for § 25, which becomes § 26, and the text of the importer for § 26, which becomes § 27. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u107	Under § 27, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 25 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The General Assembly of the Regional College of the relevant word organization shall be formed on a delegate principle at the norm of representation one delegate to 20 members for each regional college of BAPP and BAPF and one delegate to 10 members for each regional college of BAS. The terms and procedure for the selection of delegates to the General Assembly of the regional colleges of the relevant word organisation shall be laid down in its statutes. 2. In para. 2 in the first sentence, the abbreviation "BAC' shall be replaced by the corresponding co-organization and, in the third sentence, the abbreviation "BAC' shall be replaced by the group concerned. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 30. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 32.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u108	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 27, which shall become § 28, and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 28, 29, 30 and 31, which shall become respectively paragraphs 29, 30, 31 and 32, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u109	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 33. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 35. According to § 35 there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: For members of a board of directors, a committee of control and a committee of professional ethics of the relevant word organisation, as well as the authorities of their regional colleges, no persons who have been convicted of a deliberate crime of a general nature or are relatives by rights or by a second degree with other members may be elected. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 the words "BAD' are deleted; (b) c. 2 the words "BAD' are deleted; (c) create a t. 5. It's five o'clock. National Quality Board.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u110	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for paragraphs 32, 33 and 34, which shall be supported by the Commission and become respectively paragraphs 33, 34 and 35, and the version proposed by the Commission to § 35, which shall become § 36. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted. Honourable Members, on the balcony of the plenary are our colleagues from the Committee on Defence, Public Order and National Security of the Chamber of Deputies of the Romanian Parliament, led by Commission President Dorell Caprar. They are on a two-day visit to Bulgaria at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee on Internal Security and Public Order Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov. [[All rise and greet guests with applause.]] Please continue, Dr. Daritkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u111	Under § 36, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words The Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals is replaced by the corresponding word organization. 2. In para. 3 the words "medical certificate and criminal record" shall be deleted. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 38: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u112	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 36, which shall become § 37, and the text of the importer for paragraphs 37, 38 and 39, which shall be supported by the Commission and shall become respectively paragraphs 38, 39 and 40. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u113	There is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova for § 40. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 41: ............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 39 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the text before t. 1 the abbreviation "BAS' is replaced by the corresponding word organisation. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 words The code for professional ethics is replaced by the code for professional ethics of the specialists concerned. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 42. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 43. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 44. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 45. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 46.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u114	Thank you, Dr. Daritkova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 40, which shall become § 41; and the texts of the importer for paragraphs 41, 42, 43, 44 and 45, which shall be supported by the Commission and become respectively paragraphs 42, 43, 44, 45 and 46. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u115	Under § 46, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 46, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 is added at the end. 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." The certificate of qualification of the profession is a document issued by the relevant word organisation certifying that nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, as well as dental technicians and assistant pharmacists, are entered in the national register of the relevant word organisation and meet the requirements of art. 35, para. Art. 2 and 3 and art. 36, para. 1 and the rules of art. 8, p. 3........................................................................................................... 3. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." The level of professional development of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists, which reflect the knowledge, skills and competences acquired within the framework of the ongoing medical education and/or specialty in the health system for a period of 5 years. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 48. There is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Annex to art. 23, para. 1bbreviation "BA" shall be replaced by the corresponding mutual organisations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u116	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the version proposed by the Commission for the text on § 46 by importer, which shall become § 47; the text of the importer for § 47, which shall become § 48; and the proposal of the Commission to create a new § 49. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u117	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 48, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. (1) Within three months of the entry into force of this Act, regional health inspections shall draw up lists of the three names, the single civil number, the addresses of the place of residence and employment of the dentists and of the assistant pharmacists who exercise their profession in the territory of the area concerned. (2) Within two months of the expiry of the period referred to in para. 1 Regional health inspections shall convene the first general meetings of the regional colleges of the word organizations of the dentists and of the assistant pharmacists on the lists under para. 1 for the selection of the bodies of the colleges and delegates for the first congress of the respective word organization. The first general meetings of regional colleges shall be chaired without the right to vote by the directors of the relevant regional health inspections. (3) Within one month of the holding of the elections under para. 2 dental technicians and assistant pharmacists exercising their profession shall submit applications for registration in the register of the regional college concerned. (4) Within one month of the expiry of the period referred to in para. 3 The Minister of Health convenes the first conventions of the word organizations of the dentists and of the assistant pharmacists for the selection of bodies of associations. The first congress of the relevant word organisation shall be chaired without the right to vote by the Minister of Health or by a person authorised by him. There is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 51: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The dental technicians and assistant pharmacists who have obtained qualification for the exercise of the profession and educational and qualification degree................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 6, para. 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u118	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the following texts: the text of the importer for the name of the division, which shall be supported by the Commission; the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 48, which shall become § 50; and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 51 with a text in accordance with the Commission proposal. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u119	Under § 49, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49, which shall become § 52: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Within 4 months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Health shall introduce the Ordinance under art. 7 in accordance with it. According to § 50, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 50, which shall become § 53: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 2 sentence first after the words the Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals is added a representative of the Bulgarian Association of Dentists. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 183 para. 4 is amended as follows: The nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists exercise the medical profession under the terms of Chapter 2 of the Law on word organizations of nurses, midwives and associated medical professionals, dental technicians and assistant pharmacists. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 185, para. 3 words "Bulgarian Association of Health Care Professionals" are replaced by "advised organizations" within the meaning of the Law on Word Organizations of Nurses, midwives and Associated Medical Professionals, Dentists and Assistant Pharmacists. 4. In § 2c, para. 2 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, the words.?........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u120	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 49, which shall become § 52; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 50 by importer, which shall become § 53; and the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 54. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u121	There is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... In the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, One representative of the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists is added after the words "five representatives of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union." 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 228, para. 8 after the word the pharmacy is added to the Board of Directors of the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists for the Assistant Pharmacist, Head of Pharmacy in the cases defined by the Law. There is a proposal from the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Act for recognition of professional qualifications (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 17, para. 1 After the words the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union is added to the Bulgarian Association of Dentists, the Bulgarian Association of Assistant Pharmacists. There is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In the Law on Medical Institutions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 17a, para. 2 the words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u122	Statements? I won't. I vote on the Commission proposal to create new paragraphs 55, 56, 57 with texts under the Commission proposal. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u123	Under § 52, there is a proposal of the MP Daniela Daritkova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to reject § 52 as it is reflected in its systematic position as § 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u124	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject § 52 by importer. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The proposal is adopted, with which we ended with a second vote on the Bill. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF LAWPROECTION FOR THE ADVANTAGES OF SOCIAL AND SOLIDAR ECONOMICS. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me to make a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Sultanka Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u126	I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Petrova to the hall. Continue, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u127	"Report on the Law on Enterprises of Social and Solidar Economy, No 802-01-30, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2018, adopted on the first vote on 26 September 2018. The Social and Solidarity Economy Enterprise Act. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. "Chapter 1" - General. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u128	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law supported by the Commission and the text of the importer on the name of Chapter One, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u129	Under art. 1 has a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska- Zhekova, Violeta Zheleva, Kristina Sidorova, Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. There is a proposal from the MP Svetlana Angelova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 1: Art. 1. The law governs public relations relating to the social and solidarity economy, the types of entities and measures to encourage them, as well as the terms and conditions for the activities of social enterprises.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u130	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 1. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u131	Under art. 2? a proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: Art. 2 is amended as follows: Art. 2. The law aims to develop the social and solidarity economy by promoting its entities. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 2: Art. 2. The Law aims to promote the development of the social and solidarity economy as a business sector with special rules for: 1. improving access to employment and training to acquire or improve professional qualification in order to increase the standard of living of the persons under art. 7, p. 4; 2. creating conditions for providing support to the persons under art. 7, p. 4 for social inclusion and an independent lifestyle; 3. reduction of social inequality and sustainable territorial development.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u132	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the MPs Nadia Klisurska, Violeta Jeleva, Kristina Sidorova, Georgi Gokov and Svetla Bachvarova. They voted 86 MPs: 17 against 20, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 2. Vote 85 MPs: 77, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u133	The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 3: Art. 3. The social and solidarity economy is a form of entrepreneurship aimed at one or more social activities and/or social objectives carried out by undertakings, including through the production of various goods or the provision of services, in cooperation with state or local authorities or self-employed. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 4. Art. 4. The principles of social and solidarity economy are: 1. advantage of social over economic objectives; 2. association in public and/or collective benefit; 3. publicity and transparency; 4. independence from the authorities of the government; 5. participation of members, employees or employees in decision making. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of Chapter Two.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u134	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 3; the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 4 and the text of the importer on the name of Chapter 2 to be supported by the Commission. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u135	Under art. A proposal from the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Violeta Jeleva and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 5. Art. 5. Social and solidarity economy entities are cooperatives, non-profit legal entities for carrying out public service activities and social enterprises. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 6: Art. 6. Social enterprises are Class A and Class A+.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u136	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission to the text of Article 2. 5; and the version which the Commission proposes to the text of art. 6. 86 MPs voted: 81 against none, abstention 5. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u137	Under art. 7 supposed by the MPs Nadia Klisurska-Zekova, Violeta Jeleva and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 7, p. 3 words at least BGN 7500 are dropped. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 7. Art. 7. A social enterprise class A is any social enterprise, regardless of its legal form, which meets the conditions under point (a). 1, 2 and 3 or so. 1, 2 and 4: 1. perform social activity which produces social added value determined according to a methodology issued by the Minister of Labour and Social Policy; 2. it shall be transparently managed with the participation of the members, employees or employees in decision-making under a procedure established in the founding contract, the statutes or any other procedural document; 3. the positive accounting financial result of the enterprise after taxation for the last reporting period is spent more than 50 percent and not less than 7500 BGN. for the pursuit of a social activity or objective; 4. not less than 30 percent and not less than three persons employed by the undertaking at the date of the employment relationship shall be: (a) people with permanent disabilities; (b) continuous unemployed persons entitled to monthly social assistance under the Social Assistance Act and its implementing rules; (c) persons under the age of 29 who do not have previous professional experience; (d) persons accommodated outside the family under the order of art. 26 of the Child Protection Act, including after termination of their accommodation; (e) unemployed persons over 55 years of age who are registered in the Directorate-General of the Labour Office. (f) persons who raise children with permanent disabilities and receive benefits under art. 8e of the Family Aid Act for Children; (g) persons who have suffered imprisonment for a period of not less than 5 years if the end of the sentence has occurred in the last three years of employment; (h) persons with an alcohol or drug dependence who have successfully undergone a treatment or psychosocial rehabilitation programme in the last two years prior to taking up work, which shall be certified by a document issued by persons undergoing treatment or psychosocial rehabilitation; (i) homeless persons within the meaning of § 1, t. 1 of the additional provisions; (k) foreigners who have received protection in the Republic of Bulgaria under the Law on Asylum and Refugees in the last three years of their employment; (l) persons who have received special protection status under the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings; (m) persons suffering from domestic violence within the meaning of the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u138	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Siddy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, in the proposal so read, we are actually amending the text of the importer. By importer, the text is not less than 30 per cent and not less than three persons employed at the date of the occurrence of the A-class enterprise employment. Changing this text, we change the meaning and spirit of the Law completely. By removing the text that should be no less than 30% or three persons, it means that any enterprise that has 1000 employees and appoints three people could be called a social enterprise and benefit from all the privileges we give in this law. From there on, the passage to class A is much easier and hence different problems follow, because by adopting this text, we should receive a new assessment from the Anti-Corruption Commission. For the import text, the assessment is positive, but with the current proposed change, we should also make a new assessment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u140	No change. Where do you see a change in the import text?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u141	That's what I heard.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u142	No change.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u143	Any other speeches? You have the floor for a line, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u144	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In fact, there is no change in the meaning of the importer's text. Perhaps what my colleague Siddy has noticed is something else. The logic of the importer is precisely that which is in the final version of the Commission. I don't see the point in re-editing the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u145	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. A hole? You won't use it. Come in for a statement, Dr. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u146	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Article 7 lays down the conditions to be met by a social undertaking for Class A and, accordingly, the measures from which it may benefit from that rank. We accept that there are two possibilities for applying for incentive measures. The first is to match the t. 1, 2 and 3, and the other one is times t. 1, 2 and 4. Hypotheses depend on the type of social enterprise and hence what type of support it will receive. We believe that the proposed financial threshold in one of the hypotheses will lead to an undue limitation of the range of entities that can benefit from the incentive measures and for much of them it will be impossible. In this regard, we offer the threshold of BGN 7500. for a positive financial result to fall and remain only financial profit to be reinvested for social purposes. To be exact, I'll read it: "3." A positive accounting financial result for the undertaking after tax for the last reporting period is spent more than 50 percent for the pursuit of a social activity or objective.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u147	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The bill provides for the division of the social enterprises of Class A and Class A+ according to quantitative and qualitative criteria. These criteria reflect the different added value, the contribution they generate. The European policy aimed at social entrepreneurship aims to stimulate emerging and existing social enterprises. The formation of the class is also to meet the increased expectations associated with their economic and social contribution. The criteria for determining a class A social enterprise are alternative and are not simultaneously available to all, which enables more social and solidarity economy entities to register as social enterprises. In comparison, in most European countries the approach is taken for social enterprises to meet all the criteria at the same time, but we are actually giving them the opportunity to meet points 1, 2 and 3 or points 1, 2 and 4. If we allow the lack of a threshold, we would create a situation of inequality, and an existing risk of using incentive measures. The Law enables different legal forms of organization of the social enterprises to meet the different conditions as well. Also, if they meet class A conditions, to take advantage of the incentive measures that are for this class, and if they meet class A+, to actually benefit from the higher incentive measures that are laid down, we believe that the proposal made by fellow Members will not lead to easier application and registration of businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. - What's the line? First line, here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are currently settling public relations that have not been settled so far in relation to the social and solidarity economy. I will quote only one sentence from the shorthand when we discussed the draft of this law, said by Deputy Minister Sultanka Petrova, and this is in response to Mrs. Zhelyazkova's reply. What Mrs. Sultanka Petrova says is that it is extremely important that people who create social enterprises have security. In this regard is our proposal this threshold of BGN 7500. drop in order to create greater security regardless of the opportunities that are introduced with incentive measures of 1, 2 and 3 or 1, 2 and 4, because if we pay attention to cooperatives that currently exist, well, a large percentage of them and they say it in person, there is, at the moment, of those enterprises, of which more than 50% of them are actually for people with disabilities, work on a market principle because we are in a market economy. They actually produce what they produce, their production, as long as they cover wages and here we are talking about a state support of socially vulnerable groups, where their product cannot be comparable in any way. Here we are talking about support for people who are participating in these social enterprises, in some way getting employment, are getting the opportunity to realize, so nothing prevents them from dropping this threshold of BGN 7500, Mrs. Zhelyazkova, because these encouraging measures that you are talking about, one of them supports dialogue between the entities and the other implies realization of initiatives, which is extremely insufficient.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u151	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Your time is up. Thank you. Second line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, let's do the math and not read what's written to us. In order to be class A, social enterprises must meet 1, 2 and 3 or 1, 2 and 4. So it's called either one or the other. Point 3 requires 15,000. lv. a minimum profit per year from one such social enterprise, i.e. 4 requires that at least three be appointed there. Class A is right for small social enterprises. If one such small social enterprise is of three people, two of whom are disabled, let's say, and the third one is a coordinator, a manager, let's say a little breeding office, then he will never be able to apply for those things that are given to him as privileges in the Law. Even where this little desk is, it can't be given by the municipality with any preferences. He's got to play it at auction and he's got to cut his winnings. That's the real thing it has to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u153	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Is there a third line? I won't. For the coat, Mrs. Zhelyazkova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u154	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! If we allow the lack of a threshold, we will create a situation for inequality to provide public resources without additional social contribution criteria. This will actually distort the philosophy of the bill itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u155	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We continue by voting: I vote on the proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Please vote. They voted 89 MPs: 18, against 35, abstention 36. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 7 Vote 88 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u156	Proposal by the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In the introductory sentence, the words "at the same time" to all the conditions under art. 7 or... drop out. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 after the number The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 8. Art. 8. The social enterprise class A+ is each enterprise, regardless of its legal form, which meets all the conditions under art. 7 or the conditions for a class A social enterprise and one of the following additional conditions: 1. social added value shall be carried out entirely within the administrative boundaries of municipalities which for the previous year have an unemployment rate equal to or higher than the national average compared to the available statistics at the date of submission of the application; 2. The positive accounting financial result of the enterprise after taxation is spent more than 50 per cent and not less than 75 000 BGN. for social activity; 3. at least 30 of the employees are persons under art. 7, p. 4 and have worked continuously in the enterprise over the past 6 months.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u157	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 12, against 46, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of art. 8. Vote 87 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u158	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A very short negative vote. You yourself understand that Class A+ enterprises can be any Class A enterprises that meet one of the following additional conditions. I want to tell you that this can be an enterprise that has only employed three unemployed and is located in a municipality with higher unemployment and it can receive all the privileges of class A+. That's the real thing that's being voted on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u159	It's not like that! [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u160	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 9 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in Articles 7 and 8. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 10, which becomes art. 9. Art. 9. The requirements for social enterprises under art. 7, p. Art. 3 and Art. 8, p. 2 shall also be deemed to have been fulfilled where the positive accounting financial result of the undertaking after tax has been reinvested in the undertaking itself if its main activity is social within the meaning of that law. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes the following version of the name of Chapter Three:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u162	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? There are no speeches. Colleagues, I will put it to a vote: first, the Commission's proposal to reject art. 9, the second text which the Commission proposes for art. 10, which becomes art. 9, and thirdly, the wording of the name of Chapter Three, which the Commission proposes, is the Register of Social Enterprises. Please vote. Vote 94 MPs: for 93, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u163	"Department I ". The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes to reject the name "Section I" from the National Register of Social Enterprises in the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u164	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall vote on the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer on the name of the division. Vote 88 MPs: 87, no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u165	Under art. 11 by importer there is a proposal from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 11, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: The entry into the register is a condition for the social enterprise to benefit from the promotion measures provided for in this or another law. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 10: Art. 10. (1) Social enterprises shall be entered in the register of social enterprises under the conditions and under the terms laid down in this Law and in the Rules of Implementation thereof. (2) The entry into the register of social enterprises shall be made at the request of the undertaking concerned and the deletion at the request of the social undertaking or official. (3) The entry in the register of social enterprises and the voluntary deletion thereof shall be made by application of the undertaking concerned which contains: 1. details of the undertaking whose entry or deletion is requested; 2. address for correspondence and contact person; 3. the grounds on which the entry or deletion is sought; 4. Signature of the representing enterprise. (4) Documents certifying the fulfilment of the conditions under Article shall be annexed to the application for entry. 7 and 8 to be entered in the register of social enterprises. The documents shall be provided in a copy certified by the person representing the undertaking or in a notary certified copy. (5) When in the application under para. 3 or the documents attached to it indicate personal data not required by law, express consent of the persons making them available for processing from the register of social undertakings as required by the Personal Data Protection Act is required. (6) When the application under para. 3 comes from a person who is not the legal representative of the undertaking, it is also subject to an explicit power of attorney with a notary endorsement of the signature. (7) Where the requirements for entry are met, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall, within 14 days of the submission of the application for entry, issue a certificate to the undertaking for the entry in the register of social enterprises. Businesses that have received a certificate of entry in the register of social enterprises shall be entitled to add to their name and legal form the words "Societal undertaking" and the goods or services they provide to indicate by the words "Societal undertaking'. (8) In the case of discrepancies and/or incompleteness of the application under para. 3 or the documents attached thereto shall be notified in writing to the applicant to remove them within 14 days of the date of receipt of the notification. In that case, the application and documents shall be deemed to have been submitted from the date of receipt of the notification. (9) In cases where further studies and/or concerted studies with other institutions are required, the period for issuing a certificate or refusal may be extended but not more than 14 days, of which the applicant shall be notified in writing. (10) If non-compliance and/or incompleteness are not resolved within the specified time limit, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy or an official authorised by him shall issue an order authorising refusal. The applicant shall be informed of the refusal made in accordance with the procedure laid down in art. 61 of the Administrative Procedure Code. The refusal may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (11) A class A social enterprise entered in the register of social enterprises must, within one month of each third year from the date of its entry, provide the Minister of Labour and Social Policy with the documents certifying that it continues to fulfil the conditions for entry. (12) A social enterprise class A+ entered in the register of social enterprises must, within one month of each second year from the date of its entry, provide the Minister of Labour and Social Policy with the documents certifying that it continues to fulfil the conditions for entry. (13) Where a social enterprise fails to fulfil its obligation under para. 11 or 12, or where it appears from the documents submitted that one of the conditions is not met, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall issue an order to remove it from the register of social enterprises. The order shall be communicated to the representing entity in accordance with the order laid down in art. 61 of the Administrative Procedure Code. The order may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (14) In the event that it is apparent from the documents submitted that a social enterprise class A+ no longer meets the conditions for a social undertaking of that class but continues to correspond to those for a social undertaking class A, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall issue an order re-registered as a social undertaking class A in the register of social undertakings. The order shall be communicated to the representing entity in accordance with the order laid down in art. 61 of the Administrative Procedure Code. The order may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (15) A class A social enterprise shall not be subject to deletion from the register of social enterprises where, regardless of its negative accounting financial result, it spends an amount for the pursuit of social activity and/or a social objective not less than the amount spent during the preceding last reporting period where the accounting financial result has been positive. (16) A class A+ social enterprise shall not lose the class acquired where, regardless of its negative accounting financial result, it spends an amount for the pursuit of social activity and/or social objective not less than the amount spent during the preceding reporting period when the accounting financial result was positive. (17) A social undertaking entered in the register of social enterprises may request that an application to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy be deleted within three months of the application. (18) Applications and notifications, as well as documents which apply to them, may be submitted to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy or to an official authorised by him in paper form or in electronic form under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of this Law. (19) Applications and notifications as well as documents which apply to them may be submitted in electronic form signed with an advanced electronic signature, an advanced electronic signature based on a qualified electronic signature certificate or a qualified electronic signature as required by Regulation (EU) No), the Law on Electronic Governance and the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services. (20) For registration in the register of social enterprises and for deletion from the register of social enterprises, public fees shall not be collected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u166	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u167	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The proposal we are making under this article is in the version of para. 1. What we propose is that we specify in accordance with the subject matter and objectives of the Law, in general, the provisions relating to the registration in the register and the use of incentive measures. I do not see what is wrong with supplementing the text of para. 1 The second sentence: The entry into the register is a condition for the social enterprise to benefit from the promotion measures provided for in this or in another law, because, as we know, there are incentive measures in the current legislation that support this type of social enterprises.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u168	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This proposal has been discussed for quite a long time at a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. I cannot agree with what Mrs Klisurska said that with their proposal this text in art. 11, para. One is precise. No, on the contrary, I'm opposed, and I'll explain why. Part of your proposal... in the first sentence you propose................................................................................................... Article 17 and in art. 18: The encouraging measures in support of social enterprises are implemented after entry into the National Register of Social Enterprises in the Republic of Bulgaria. There's that later, Mrs. Klisurska. It is unacceptable that what you propose is that the registration in the register is a condition for the social enterprise to benefit from incentive measures in another law. It is unacceptable because there would be a strong restrictive effect on other regulations that are alternative. I give an example: for specialized enterprises for disabled people, under the National Employment Action Plan there are also incentive measures and operational programmes. That's why it can't be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u170	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Colleagues, I am voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. Vote 89 MPs: 14 against 46 abstentions 29. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. Art. 11, which becomes Art. 11. 10 on the Commission report. 88 MPs voted: 84, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u171	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes to reject the name "Section II" of the National Register of Social Enterprises in the Republic of Bulgaria. Under art. 12 there is a proposal from the National Representative Galya Zhelyazkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 12, which becomes Art. 11: Art. 11. (1) The register of social enterprises shall be public and shall contain the following information concerning the undertakings included therein: 1. the name, legal form and identification number of the enterprise; 2. the class of the social enterprise; 3. the date, the basis of the entry in the register and the deletion thereof; 4. the main business and social activity and/or social purpose of the enterprise. (2) The information from the register of social enterprises shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter Four. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 12: [[noise and lines]] ...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u172	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u173	Art. 12. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall encourage the subjects of the social and solidarity economy and support them by: 1. assist the dialogue between them and with the state authorities, including by contributing to the implementation of common initiatives in the field of social and solidarity economy with various state authorities; 2. facilitate the inclusion of citizens in the activities of the social and solidarity economy entities and in the pursuit of their social objectives by establishing an electronic platform by which they will be able to present their activities to stakeholders for the purpose of future partnerships and joint activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u174	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of the name of Section II; the version of art. 12, which becomes Art. 11 of the Commission Report; the name of Chapter 4 and the version of Art. Art. 13, which becomes Art. 12 on the Commission report. Vote 88 MPs: 83 against 4, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u175	Under art. 14 has a proposal from the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 14 in the introductory sentence the words The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 14, which becomes art. 13: Art. 13. (1) Local self-government bodies may assist the social and solidarity economy entities in their activities by: 1. promote the development of human resources in the field of social and solidarity economy by providing access to the electronic platform under art. 12, t. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. develop mechanisms and programmes to support social entrepreneurship aimed at developing the regional aspects of the social and solidarity economy by including measures in the regulations relating to the development of the municipality; 3. participate in the activities of the social and solidarity economy through various forms of cooperation. [[Noise and lines.]] (2) The ways in which the local self-government bodies may assist the social and solidarity economy entities shall be determined by a decision of the municipal council.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u176	Guys, it's too loud. Please, let's be quiet! Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. They voted 86 MPs: 19 against 20, abstention 47. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 14, which becomes art. 13 on the Commission report. Vote 81 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u177	Negative vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u178	Here's a negative vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u179	Madam President, honourable Members! My negative vote is about reading and understanding texts. The electronic platform is being set up by whom? From the Minister of Labour and Social Policy! In the organisation of human resources, local authorities give access to the platform, which was created by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. My question is: how do local authorities direct human resources with this text when they do not have organs for this direction? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u180	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. Let's continue with art. 15, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u181	Under art. 15 has a proposal from the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 2 and 4 and does not support it by t. 1 and 3: "1." in the introductory sentence, the words "societal enterprises' shall be replaced by the subjects of the social and solidarity economy. 3. t. 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4 is equal to 4. 3, and in it the words "societal enterprises" "in both uses are replaced by the subjects of the social and solidarity economy" and the words "successed in the National Register of Social Enterprises in the Republic of Bulgaria" and the comma before them are dropped. Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 15 which becomes Art. 14: Art. 14. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy shall promote social enterprises and support them by: 1. provide methodological assistance in the search for specialized funding for their activities; 2. conduct national training programmes to develop their management capacity; 3. establish, register and maintain a distinctive certification mark for social enterprises and their goods or services by providing it for free use by social enterprises entered in the register of social enterprises; 4. proposes creating objective indicators for the statistical reporting of the social and solidarity economy at the National Statistical Institute, carrying out analyses and proposing changes or new promotion measures. Under art. 16 has a proposal from the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 15: Art. 15. (1) Social enterprises class A+ may be encouraged by: 1. a reputable establishment in their favour for the development of their social objectives of the right to construction of property. private municipal property, without tender or competition after a decision of the municipal council, adopted by a majority more than half of the total number of advisors not less than 6 months after the application of the social enterprise, according to the order laid down in the ordinance under art. 8, para. 2 of the Municipal Property Act. In that case, the social undertaking undertakes to continue to exist and act as such for a period of not less than 10 years from the establishment of the right of construction and, in the event of failure to comply with that obligation, owes the municipality a monetary compensation of 40 per cent of the price of establishment during the first 5 years and 20 per cent of the price of establishment during the period from 6 to 10 years; 2. a reputable establishment in their favour for the achievement of their social objectives of the right of use on property and property of private municipal property, without tender or competition after a decision of the municipal council adopted not less than 6 months after the application of the social enterprise, in order laid down in the ordinance under art. 8, para. 2 of the Law on Municipal Property; the right to use shall be repaid by the deletion of the social undertaking from the register of social enterprises or by the expiry of the specified period, which shall not exceed 10 years; 3. financial support for training to increase the professional qualification of the persons referred to in Article 3. 7, p. 4 persons employed by social enterprises class A+, on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy within the limits of the funds set by the State Budget Act for the relevant year for the implementation of the active employment policy, when the economic activity is carried out entirely within the administrative boundaries of municipalities, which for the previous year have a level of unemployment equal to or higher than the national average. (2) In the event that, before 6 months after the application of the social enterprise class A+ for the establishment of a right of construction or the right to use on property and property, private municipal property shall expire, without auction or competition under para. 1, t. 1 and 2, an application was received from another social enterprise class A+ with a request for the same property or property, then the right to construction or use on the property or property shall be established in accordance with art. 37, para. 1 or respectively in the order of art. 39, para. 1 of the Municipal Property Act. Upon receipt of a subsequent application from one or more social undertakings, the date of submission of the first application shall be considered as the starting date of the 6-month period. (3) The release of the funds under para. 1, t. 3 shall take the form of State aid schemes subject to the requirements of Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty (OJ L 187, 26 June 2014). and in order laid down by the Rules of Procedure for the Implementation of this Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u182	Statements? Colleagues, before we go to the vote, a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u183	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I propose the following procedure: to extend working time to the final adoption of the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy. [[Noise and lines.]] Ten more paragraphs left, so I'm asking for patience.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u184	I'm voting on the procedural proposal. Vote 80 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the unsupported proposal on this. 1 and 3 of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs under art. 15. Vote 79 MPs: 13 against 17, abstention 49. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote an amendment to art. 15 which becomes Art. 14 of the Commission Report and the version of art. 16 which becomes Art. 15 on the Commission report. Vote 82 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u185	Proposal by the National Representative Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 16a by importer: Article 2 is created. 16a: Art. 16a. The promotion measures under art. 16 shall also apply to cooperatives, cooperative unions and non-profit legal entities for carrying out socially useful activities which meet the conditions of art. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u186	Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u187	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! In Chapter 2, Article 2. 5 The subjects of the social and solidarity economy have been identified because, notice, in this bill, which we are currently looking at, we are not just looking at the activities and status of social enterprises. And if we turn to the next Articles.. 17 and 18, which Mrs. Angelova had just commented, we introduce with them the possibility that the incentive measures under this law should not restrict and exclude the application of any other support measures provided for in other regulations in compliance with the rules for avoiding double funding. Here, with this bill, we also give the opportunity, under other laws in force, to use encouraging measures. In this regard, in order to create a level playing field for the other subjects of the solidarity and social economy, we are making the proposal under art. 16a, which introduces the other subjects of the social and solidarity economy, regulated in art. 5, to benefit from these, how shall I say, measures introduced in art. 15 if they meet the conditions of art. 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u188	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the unsupported proposal to create art. 16a of MP Nadia Klisurska and group of MPs. Please vote. They voted 87 MPs: 18, against 28, abstention 41. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u189	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17, which becomes art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u190	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for art. 17, which becomes art. 16. Vote 84 MPs: 80, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u191	A proposal from the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs - Article 18 drop out. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 18, which becomes Art. 17: Art. 17. The incentive measures in support of social enterprises shall be applied after entry into the register of social enterprises.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u192	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. They voted 82 MPs: 8 against 41, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 18, which becomes Art. 17 on the Commission report. Vote 85 MPs: 75, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u193	"Additional provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal by the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 4 is amended as follows: "4." "Society" is any activity that mobilizes resources to achieve social goals. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. A homeless person is a person who does not own a home who is not able to rent an apartment with his own funds and is not accommodated in municipal housing under the Law on Municipal Property and/or who, due to accidental circumstances (fire, natural disasters, collapse of a building and others) is left without shelter. 2. A single, central, public-based web-based information system that provides free communication by sending electronic communications between social enterprises and other stakeholders about future joint activities. 3. The persons within the meaning of Paragraph 1 shall continue to be unemployed. 2 of the additional provisions of the Employment Promotion Act. 4. "Social activity" is any activity that produces social added value determined according to the methodology under art. 7, p. 1 and aimed at achieving a social objective in support of the persons referred to in Article 1. 7, p. 4 and their social inclusion, raising their standard of living, improving their access to the labour market and education and protecting their rights, as well as improving the living environment by protecting the environment and biodiversity and supporting the environmental balance. 5. A social enterprise is an undertaking which, regardless of its legal form, has as its object the production of goods or the provision of services by combining economic results with social objectives; it achieves measurable, positive social added value; it is managed transparently with the participation of members, employees in decision making; it carries out its economic activity as part of the average number of staff are persons under art. 7, p. 4 and/or as profit is primarily spent for social activity and/or social purpose under the founding contract or statutes. 6. "Social Entrepreneurship" is a form of entrepreneurship that reconciles business activities with the pursuit of social goals resulting in the production of social added value determined in accordance with the methodology under art. 7, p. 1. 7. The social added value is the social impact achieved for the target group as a result of the activities carried out by the social undertaking, taking into account both positive and negative changes and the accompanying effects resulting from other actions or lack of action by the social undertaking. 8. "Social objective" is a goal in support of persons under art. 7, p. 4 as regards their employment, social inclusion, raising their standard of living, improving their access to education and professional qualifications and protecting their rights, as well as improving the environment and biodiversity environment and supporting the environmental balance. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... The methodology of art. 7, p. 1 is a common approach for all social enterprises to identify the model specifics, social objectives, economic and social environment, stakeholders, the effective use of the input resources, direct and indirect effects of the action in support of the target group and/or to achieve a social objective, such as the total cost of social activities/social objectives during the year, percentage of the taxable financial result after taxation reinvested in social activities, number of employees under art. 7, p. 4 and others. 'Concluding provisions.' The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer and proposes that § 3 be rejected, as it is reflected in its systematic place as a new § 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u194	Statements? Mr. Gokov, come in. [[Noise and lines.]] I'm just saying that we're adopting social law, and Mr. Gokov is gone. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, with this § 1, I will speak on it and only motivate our proposal. In this paragraph, we generally define the concepts used in the Law for the purposes of the Law. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 we have recorded: "Society" is any activity that produces social added value determined according to the methodology under art. 7, p. 1 and aimed at achieving a social objective. I think that, as we defined the concept of social activity, we are limiting the scope of the concept of social activity, so my colleagues and I have proposed that social activity be defined as an activity that mobilizes resources for achieving social objectives. I think this broader concept is more suitable for the needs of the Law. I call on you to support it, although you have so far rejected all the proposals that have not been supported by the Commission, and this proposal follows their logic, but it is not wrong to think that we can extend the scope of these businesses a little. Thank you. [[Noise and lines.]] I know you're not gonna expand it, but it's not a problem.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u196	Mr. Gokov, thank you. Do we have lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Nadia Klisurska for § 1. Please vote. They voted 81 MPs: 13 against 43, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the name of the sub-section "Additional provisions', the version of § 1, the version of § 2 of the Commission Report, the name of the Final Provisions and the rejection of § 3. Please vote. Vote 82 MPs: 71 against 1, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u197	Proposal by the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: In § 4 in the text of the created t. 19 the words "social enterprises" entered in the National Register of Social Enterprises in the Republic of Bulgaria" shall be replaced by the subjects of the social and solidarity economy under the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 3: .................................................. In the Law on Corporate Income Tax (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 31, para. 1 is created t. 19: "19." social enterprises entered in the register of social enterprises to carry out their social activities and/or to achieve their social objectives
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u198	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs. Please vote on the proposal under § 4, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 82 MPs: 14 against 34, 34 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. I am now putting to the vote the amendment of § 4, which becomes § 3. Vote 78 MPs: 70, none, abstention 8. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u199	Under § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs: In Paragraph 5, paragraph 5 is replaced by the following: 1 in the text of the created new t. 3 the words "social enterprises" entered in the National Register of Social Enterprises in the Republic of Bulgaria" shall be replaced by the subjects of the social and solidarity economy under the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In the Law on Social Assistance (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 27 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." projects supporting the implementation of the social activity and/or the achievement of the social objectives of social enterprises entered in the register of social enterprises; b) Previous t. 3 " 7" becomes respectively. 4... 8............................................................... 2. In para. 3 words................................................................................. 2 and 3 and 3 are replaced
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u200	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska and a group of MPs for § 5. Vote 81 MPs: 18, against 39, abstention 24. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5, which shall become § 4 of the Commission Report. Vote 80 MPs: 76 against 1, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u201	Proposal by the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and a group of MPs for the creation of a new § 5a: screated § 5a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Law on the Civil Service (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 19th para. 3 the words "legal non-profit entities designated for carrying out a public utility activity" shall be replaced by the subjects of the social and solidarity economy under the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u202	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u203	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! This is not about the Law on State Employees, but it is about the Law on State Property. [[Reply from rapporteur Hassan Ademov.]] I am aware of the line that I will probably get, but unfortunately, the measures that are introduced with this bill, the promotional measures by the state are exceptional, how can I say, palliative and the state will not provide the real support. In this respect, in art. 19 of the State Property Act, if any of you know him well, know well, non-governmental organizations and non-profit associations in public benefit are entitled to sites that are state property without auction or competition to be rented out to them. In this case, we believe that state support is possible through the incentive measures respectively for the undertakings of Class A+ as regulated in art. 8 of the current law, they can safely receive this incentive measure. So what we are proposing is where, in the State Property Act, non-governmental organisations in public benefit have the right, without auction or competition, to receive public ownership premises, and the A+-class enterprises to have this opportunity. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u204	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Here's a line for you, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u205	Colleagues, one very brief line, with an apology for mistaking the name of the State Property Act. See, from the beginning of the Bill, colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria are proposing that the social economy entities, which under the Law are cooperatives and non-governmental organizations working in public benefit, and that the social enterprises be included within the big title called the social and solidarity economy. Regardless of the legal organizational form of businesses and companies, we have said that, in order to meet the condition of being enterprises of the social and solidarity economy, they must meet the relevant conditions that we have just read and which we adopted in the Law. Now what is available here? This is where the subjects are offered. However, these entities are cooperatives. The State Property Act does not say that cooperatives have the same right as non-governmental organisations do, so by expanding the circle of structures that have rights under this law, we come out of the overall philosophy of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u206	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Any other lines? I can't see. Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u207	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ademov, with the statement I made a moment ago, my wish was basically to make an editorial amendment to what we are proposing. In this case, the change we are proposing is to include here the ability of the state to support only social enterprises of class A+ and not the enterprises of the social and solidarity economy. That was my speech, and in this regard, I ask you to accept the reasons that I have put forward just now, only for the A+ class enterprises. Thank you. [[National Representative Emil Dimitrov becomes and applauds.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u208	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Nadia Klisurska to create a new § 5a. They voted 86 MPs: 14 against 42, abstention 30. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u209	A proposal from the MP Desislava Atanasova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In the Law on Employment Promotion (prom., SG No. ...) in the additional provisions of § 1 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." It is a suitable job that corresponds to the education and/or qualification and/or professional experience of the person as well as to his or her health condition if he or she is located in the same locality or up to 50 km away, provided that there is appropriate public transport, for a period of up to 12 months from the date of registration of the person in the Employment Bureau. After that period, it is the one corresponding to the health status of the person if it is located in the same locality or up to 50 km away, provided that there is appropriate public transport. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 7 be rejected. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 7: .................................................... The Minister of Labour and Social Policy within 6 months of the promulgation of the law in the State Gazette. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... The law shall enter into force 6 months after its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of § 7, which shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-18.u210	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the creation of a new § 5; § 6 with the support of the importer; the rejection of § 7 and the amendment of § 8, which becomes § 7, and the creation of a new § 8. They voted 83 MPs: 77, against 2, abstention 4. The proposals are accepted, and with this the Bill. Parliamentary Control Communication on 19 October 2018, Friday: The Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov will answer two questions from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; and Krasimir Yankov and Daniel Yordanov and one question from the MPs Ivan Valentinov and Georgi Svilenski. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer four questions from the MPs Petar Kanev; Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; Lubomir Bonev, Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev; and Elhan Kalkov. The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Lyubomir Bonev and Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; and Nikolay Tishev. The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer five questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin three questions; Rumen Georgiev; and Irena Anastasova. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the MP Hristo Prodanov. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer two questions from the MPs Vassil Antonov; and Zhelyo Boychev and Tasco Ermenkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva to a question with a written answer from the MP Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to three questions with written answer from the MPs Manol Genov, Lubomir Bonev and Georgi Yordanov; Lyubomir Bonev and Radoslav Stoychev; and Valentina Naydenova and Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to three questions with a written answer from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will not participate. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov will not participate. With this, we have exhausted today's agenda. Tomorrow, a regular plenary session at 9:00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
