ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u1	We have a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I suggest to be included in the weekly work programme of the National Assembly the following additional point: Draft decision to announce the city of Dobrich and the city of Tutrakan for the City of the Bulgarian military glory, with importers Plamen Manushev and a group of MPs. I propose that it become point two for today's plenary session. Please vote. Vote 150 MPs: for 149, no objection, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. For today, we have an announcement: On 19 September 2018, the National Assembly received a Report on the results of the carried out and subsequent controls to implement the recommendations of the Audit Report on Compliance Audit for the Financial Management of the City Mobility Centre (CTA) for the period from 1 January 2014 to 30 June 2016. The report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications by letter to the President of the National Assembly. The audit of compliance with financial management shall be entrusted to the Court of Auditors on the basis of art. 7, para. 1 of the Law on the Court of Auditors by decision of the National Assembly of 20 May 2016 The report on the financial management compliance audit was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications by letter of 18 May 2017 to the President of the National Assembly. The Members of the National Assembly shall be informed of this during the plenary session on 18 May 2017. The report on the results of and subsequent controls for the implementation of the recommendations, as well as the audit of compliance with the financial management, shall be available to the Members of the National Assembly's Library. Honourable Members of the National Assembly in connection with the application of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly referred to in point 11 of the Work Programme of the National Assembly for the period 19 September, according to the adopted Programme as the first item for today's plenary session is intended for consideration and discussion Annual Report, which is classified under the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, namely the Annual Report of the State Security Committee on Information on the overall status of the protection of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The report is classified under the Classified Information Protection Act. In view of the following, both announced upon adoption of the Programme on Wednesday and on the basis of art. 50, para. 1, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure, in the part of the sitting on this point, is closed and this is not discussed and voted on. I remind the Members of the National Assembly and other persons involved that the discussions and minutes of the closed meeting are classified information and bind all Members of the National Assembly and the persons who have access to them with their respective obligations. The envisaged in art. 50, para. 6 of the Rules of Procedure will be made public at a closed session and will be published in the Official Journal of the European Union in accordance with the order in force. In accordance with the requirements of art. 50, para. 4 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I ask that all outsiders leave the hall and balconies, as well as the direct media transmission and broadcast over the Internet, then the meeting will continue as closed. I ask the Quaestors to ensure the fulfilment of the requirements of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly. [[Next closed session.]] (After the closed session.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u2	Please, Quaestors, resume the usual regime of work of the plenary and invite the journalists. We move on to the next item that we have included in today's agenda with a decision at the beginning of the sitting: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO STATEMENT A CITY OF A GOODRIC AND A CITY OF TUTRACAN FOR THE BULGARIAN FIGHTING VOICE. There is a report from the Defence Committee that will introduce us to Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u3	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I'll introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on the draft decision of the National Assembly on the announcement of the city of Dobrich and the city of Tutrakan for the City of the Bulgarian military glory. No. 854-02-51, submitted by the MPs Plamen Manushev, Tsveta Karayancheva, Konstantin Popov, Hristo Gabzhev, Altimir Adamov, Alexander Sabanov and Daniela Dimitrova on 17 September 2018. At a regular meeting held on 20 September 2018, the Defence Committee discussed a draft decision of the National Assembly on the announcement of the city of Dobrich and the town of Tutrakan for the city of Bulgarian military glory. 18 MPs attended the meeting. The meeting was attended by Mr. Atanas Zapreyanov, Deputy Minister of Defence. On behalf of the importers, the draft decision was presented by the National Representative Plamen Manushev. He recalled that the epics of 1916 under Dobrich and Tutrakan are those glorious pages in Bulgarian history, where soldiers, sergeants, officers, generals and the population of these areas of the country with unreasonably heroic and unfamiliar in military history patriotic self-denial defeated the enemies and gave rise to the liberation of South Dobrudja. Mr. Manushev pointed out that the draft decision was submitted to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and called on the members of the Defence Committee to support it. Further, the word was given to Deputy Minister Zapreyanov, who read a positive opinion of the Ministry of Defence on the draft decision. In the subsequent discussion were the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Hristo Gazhev and Milen Mihov. All those who spoke supported the draft decision. National Representative Hristo Gazhev read an opinion of the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria in support of the proposal for a solution. After the end of the debates, the members of the Defence Committee with 18 votes for the Council, without abstention and without abstention, adopted the following opinion: supported the draft decision, No 854-02-51, submitted by the MPs Plamen Manushev, Tsveta Karayancheva, Konstantin Popov, Hristo Gadzhev, Altimir Adamov, Alexander Sabanov, Daniela Dimitrova on 17 September 2018, and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a decision to announce the town of Dobrich and the town of Tutrakan for the City of Bulgarian military glory.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u4	Thank you, Mr. Toshev. I give the floor to Mr. Manushev on behalf of the importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u5	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I offer to your attention a proposal for a decision of the National Assembly to announce the city of Dobrich and the town of Tutrakan as a town of Bulgarian war glory. The decision states: The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 86 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria HAS DECIDED 1. He declared the town of Dobrich a city of the Bulgarian military glory. 2. The town of Tutrakan is declared a city of the Bulgarian military glory. I'm going to say a few words as motives for this proposal. We made this proposal in writing at the end of July, quite at the end. We had the idea to sign it by MPs from all parliamentary groups because there was such a desire. I mean it very sincerely. There were perhaps hours left until the end, before the summer vacation, and we wanted the Ministry of Defence and the Association of Municipalities to have time to give their opinions, so that this proposal could be submitted to the Chamber of Justice of the National Assembly, to look at it in the committees and now, at the beginning of September, as we returned from the vacation to be able to vote on it, as both cities........................ dobric and Tutrakan are looking forward to this decision. Today the town of Tutrakan has a solemn session, as today is the celebration of Tutrakan city and expect the good news that the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria has voted this decision and has declared the city a city of Bulgarian war glory and the town of Dobrich has made its entire solemn session for the 25th on the basis of this decision under the motto: This idea was born two years ago, when exactly 100 years of fighting were celebrated, by the glorious Dobrichka and Tutrakan epic, 2016. It's exactly 100 years after these battles. The decisions of the City Council of Tutrakan and the city of Dobrich motivated us to make this proposal after quite a consultation on how to proceed, as both cities have been making decisions for a year and a half to be declared as such cities. They have written letters to the President, to the Council of Ministers, to the President of the National Assembly, but clearly on legal grounds, so answered the Presidential institution that they will not be announced. After consulting lawyers, with the Legal Committee, we decided to propose to the National Assembly to vote on this decision. One clarification: this determination will not require funds and any administrative consequences. I believe that the National Assembly will vote on this decision. For these two cities, it is very symbolic, because for me Parliament is the temple of democracy and the most important institution, the most important body in a parliamentary republic. I told you that we have letters from the mayors to all these institutions, and we also have answers from the Minister of Defence and from the Chairman of the Association of Municipalities who fully support this idea and our decision. A petition for a city announcement is currently under way in the town of Dobrich, and thousands of citizens of Dobrich have signed this petition asking us to take this decision. Why are we doing this? Because of Goodness and the Tutrakan epic. I'm just gonna say a few words. Romania joined World War I on September 1st. There is the Third Bulgarian Army. South Dobrudja was occupied in 1913 and with the inclusion of Romania in the country of the Covenant, of the Antanta, the Bulgarian troops decided to overtake the attack of Romania and the third Bulgarian army went into the offensive on 2 and 3 September. The first task is to take the Tutrakan fortress.. extremely fortified so that our army can act in the north so that there is no such strong fortress in the back of the head. A group has been established under the command of General Pantelei Kiserov. Two divisions of the Preslav and First Sofia Division are prepared for several days and on the 5th of the morning for two days, for 36 hours the impregnable fortress, built two or three years by French and Belgian engineers fortifiers, was taken by the Bulgarian soldier with a storm. An epic, a battle in which the spirit of the Bulgarian soldier, heroism and self-denial defeats the weapon, defeats the steel, defeats the concrete and the fortress is taken. Thousands of examples of heroism. Testamentless loyalty, love of the Fatherland. The Bulgarian soldier goes there to win or die, and does so. Therefore, we are obliged to bring back the memory of the Bulgarian men who died in this glorious battle. It passes at the cost of over 1700 killed Bulgarian military, over 6,000 wounded, over 8,000 Romanian soldiers killed, 28,000 captured, 100 guns, 450 officers. Incredible heroics! This decision of ours will make such that the memory of these people will be returned to this earth. Near the town of Tutrakan in the village of Shumentsi there is a military cemetery of 10 thousand men lying in two brothers' mounds and in 240 separate graves with one monument built in 1928, where with collected money from the citizens were written in four languages on the four sides of the monument: Honor and glory to those who knew heroically to die for their country. The memory was still alive, but they may have made peace by then. A good epic three days of fighting is called an epic for a reason. We take Dobrich on 4 September.. General Todor Kantardzhiev with the Varna squad, the entire population rejoices, the Romanian Nineteenth Division flees north, but there is intercepted by General Zuetchkovski... a Russian army corps, a infantry and a horse division. Later comes a Serbian one, and the order is to return the city of Dobrich, to take the city of Varna and to turn the war on 1916, to bring Bulgaria out, but apparently then the commander of this group was mistaken both the army and the people who are against it. Three days of epic fighting of a handful of Bulgarians, a regular regiment, several reserve regiments and a brigade of the Sixth Guard Division, 35th and 36th Vrachan regiment. Amazing fights are described. The third day, when perhaps Dobrich would fall, General Kolev saved the city with his horse division by smashing the Serbian division. More than a thousand Bulgarian soldiers died, three or four thousand wounded, more than three thousand soldiers from seven nations buried in the military cemetery in Dobrich. The people since then bear the names and the fallen wars because it was just then that the Bulgarian saw that the killed soldier was not his enemy. He wrote it Dimcho Debelyanov, and it is true. The military cemetery in Dobrich is unique, where three thousand men from different courses, religions and confessions are buried next to each other with their tombstone, as religion enjoins them. The return of these people's memory, the return of the national spirit, is our duty and our task. I therefore propose that we support this decision and vote for the proclamation of the city of Dobrich and the town of Tutrakan as cities of Bulgarian glory. Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u6	Thank you, Admiral Manushev. We're going to discuss the decision. You have the floor, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u7	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We cannot fail to welcome such an initiative for the proclamation of two Bulgarian cities as cities of the Bulgarian city. Still, to be exact in terms. We from the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party will support this proposal. I'd like to say something about not taking it as a pickle. Such initiatives that are being made that concern patriotism, which concern national dignity, which should educate the young generation, must be jointly made. I can't accept the explanation that the last few days before the vacation we decided we couldn't get people together to sign this decision. In my opinion, the ideal option would have been if it had been signed by the presidents of the parliamentary groups and tabled in this way in order to show the unity of the Bulgarian Parliament and the care that patriotism, which we should develop in the young generations, the history that is bequeathed to us, protect it and cherish it, we all unite behind it. Whatever. We did it this way. However, in the future, let us be more responsible when it comes to patriotism, when it comes to national dignity, when it comes to Bulgaria. Because it is good to say it, but it is good to say it all together, not part of the importer, others on the side of the voter. One other thing I would like to stress is that, yes, the two cities fully deserve their title, which they will receive. In Bulgaria, I think there are other settlements at first reading I would even stress that Slivnitsa could also be considered for this decision. Unfortunately, however, many of the places of Bulgarian war fame are currently not in Bulgaria. Yesterday, delegations from parliament, the Ministry of Defence and the command of the armed forces were on Kaimakchalan. They laid flowers in front of a humble pyramid that was made there. I think I'm not saying anything new, but I'm going back to the traditions of the Bulgarian Army. It's nice where we can't and can't rename or give the title to the Bulgarian military glory because it's not in Bulgaria, parts of our military units to receive these names. For example: 68th Kamachalan Brigade Special Forces, 61st Doyran Brigade and so on, and so on for merit, because only in this way can we keep our history, only in this way can we make people believe that we are really fighting for patriotism and defending it. We want to have a normal country, a nice country, a country that is proud of its history and remembers it. Only in this way can we inspire young people to serve the state, to serve the country, to know what this debt is. Because our soldiers once protected the country with their lives, with their lives they protected the proud name Bulgaria. Let us also be worthy of this! Thank you. [[(Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria......................................................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u8	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Velkov. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u9	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Gokov, my reactions are not delayed, your vision slowed down. [[Laughter]] My fellow Members, I share everything that my colleague Ermenkov said, and I will add that we really need to be united in such acts. I will remind you of something from the autumn of last year, when we made a proposal here, which was supported by some of the colleagues from IMRO about the Law on the Bulgarian Military Monuments. The graves of two of the heroes, generals, at Silistra and Tutrakan, in Sofia cemeteries are in oblivion and out of the reach of the law. Now we want to announce cities as cities of Bulgarian war glory. If I have two cards with both, I will vote, of course, but we must be united, consistent, I say united in solving such issues. The Doyran Epic recently had a movie with one of the descendants of an English general who attacked Doyran and said: People worthy of respect, people who contributed to the glory of Bulgaria, who were neither narrow and broad socialists, nor Democrats, were divided by a party sign, had only one idea to fight, to protect Bulgaria. I welcome all that you have done, Admiral Manushev, albeit without us, but now it will be with us, as we will vote and I believe there are more cities that can be announced.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u10	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. Another line? Is there a second line? I don't see anyone who wants to. Mr. Ermenkov's doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Velkov, you are right about the military monuments and you cannot be wrong because this is something that must be done by our National Assembly. I'm using the back to say two more things. I am convinced that there are other cities that also deserve the title: City of the Bulgarian military glory. Here we can mention Pleven, Slivnitsa I have already said, but I call on the local government, the mayors, to take the necessary action to make this happen in order for these cities to get their dignity and not to limit ourselves only to Doyran, to Good Field, to Kaymakchalan. Let's not forget that the Bulgarian war glory is also in Europe.. of Deve Bair, Stracin, at Drava, Dravasobolch, places where the Bulgarian soldier has shown that he has always won his battles. Unfortunately, politicians have always lost wars. Hopefully, we wish we could break this tradition and be worthy of the Bulgarian army! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u12	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Ademov has the floor. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u13	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! These days, 102 years of the most significant battles on the Dobrudzha front during World War I. Even then they are called the epic because along with the mastery of the Tutrakan fortress, they are among the first impressive victories of the Third Bulgarian Army. These events are key to the course of military action and the release of Dobrudja. The Dobrudzha Epic shows the bravery, the high fighting spirit and the sacrifice of the Bulgarian soldier in the name of the motherland. In the battles for Dobrich in 1916, as said just before by Admiral Manushev, more than 3,000 inòins of six national armies died from Bulgarian, German, Romanian, Turkish, Russian, Serbian, as well as from six religions and ten nationalities. Today, they are all resting in one of the largest military cemeteries in Bulgaria -- this in Dobrich, uniquely, that unlike most military cemeteries around the world, it lacks the characteristic classification of sectors by national and religious principle. All the dead were laid side by side, no different from their national or religious affiliation. What a visual and instructive lesson for tolerance, humanity and unity. Our parliamentary group will support the proposals of the municipal councils in Dobrich and Tutrakan with a clear understanding that we must preserve the memory of the heroes of the Dobrudzha battle and pass on to future generations their feat so that we can raise in them a sense of nationality, unifying patriotism, pride and love for the motherland. The National Assembly cannot give an assessment of historical events, so there are historians and scientific institutes. However, the idea of Dobrich and Tutrakan being declared a city of Bulgarian combat glory deserves the respect it needs. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Despite the uplifted and emotional tone caused by the magnificent feat of the heroes of the Dobrudzhan epic, I cannot go away with the silence of the government's attempt to party this wonderful initiative of local municipalities. Colleagues from GERB and As importers, you could look for representatives of all political parties in the Forty-fourth National Assembly to support this draft decision. Thus, the sense of unity and the unique recognition of the feat of Dobrudja's liberators would sound even more convincing. Alas, he overcame the attempt to extract political dividends. In this way, once again you prove that for you as governors, seeking consent even by seemingly indisputable solutions is a difficult occupation. And yet, congratulations to Dobrich and Tutrakan! [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u14	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I won't. Docent Mihov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u15	Honorable Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Many important things have been said here about the reasons for this decision. I personally thank Admiral Manushev for the exact, emotional and correct narrative of the dramatic events of 1916, which we can determine as the historical retribution for the theft of South Dobrudzha in 1913, but I would like to continue why today precisely the National Assembly is taking this decision. Today is Tutrakan Day, but on September 21, 1940 the Bulgarian army released the first city of South Dobrudja, namely Tutrakan. On September 7, 1940, between the Kingdom of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Romania, the Krajov Agreement was signed, which restored a historic justice to the peaceful return of South Dobrudzha on the basis of a bilateral treaty, one of the greatest successes of Bulgarian diplomacy since World War I, and we can say almost the last national success of the 20th century. Thanks to the consistent peaceful revisionist policy of Bulgaria, thanks to the far-sighted diplomacy and the credit of Tsar Boris III, Bulgaria manages to return this very Bulgarian territory forever. This is due to the short but very important cooperation and alliance between Germany and the Soviet Union. Even then, in the autumn of 1940, all the great powers, both Germany and the Soviet Union, and warring England against them and the United States, recognized Bulgaria's right on this territory, which led to the paradox that, at the end of World War II, Bulgaria as a defeated state signed a peace treaty, but came out of the war with a territorial extension. This is a replica of our familiar thesis that the Bulgarian army always wins wars, but Bulgarian diplomacy never manages to win at the green table. The return of South Dobrudja is proof that Bulgarian diplomacy and state could and achieved results. I will conclude with a quote that most clearly expresses the spirit of the event. This is from an archive document, which was stored in the State Archives, called the Public Information Newsletter. This is from the date of September 21, 1940. Part of it reads: The freedom for which the Bulgarian people struggled so much rose above the plains of Dobrudzha. The invincible Bulgarian troops enter the borders of Dobrudja. The ringing of the bells announces the long-awaited joy over the entire Bulgarian land. The miracle has been fulfilled, for which the Dobrudjans have longed for more than 20 years and which foretold Jobkov the immortal son and singer of Dobrudja. The spirits of all Bulgarians who gave their bones and their blood on the equal fields of Dobrudzha can be calm. Their work gave their result, their sacrifice was not in vain. As of today, the Bulgarian army occupied Dobrudzha to watch as a faithful guard over the Dobrudjans, so that they could lean on its steel bayonet to relax in order to devote themselves to peaceful work and work together all Bulgarians for the even greater and brighter future of Bulgaria. This text says many things about the spirit of the moment for returning South Dobrudja, but this text also says many things about the spirit we need today. Happy Tutrakan holiday! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u16	Thank you, dear Associate Professor Mihov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I warmly welcome such an initiative, which is being made today to declare Dobrich and Tutrakan as such holy places where Bulgarian soldiers have left their bones. Bulgarian history remembers many glorious moments in which, you know, we have not lost a battle, we have lost wars, but the Bulgarian army has not lost a battle. There is a string of events that lead us from the Russo-Turkish War by going through the Liberation War, the First Balkan War, the Second Balkan War, the First World War, the Second World War, the Bulgarian soldier is glorious. Today, honourable Members, we pay tribute to the heroes who died on the outskirts of Tutrakan, of Dobrich during World War I, but I am under the impression that we forget those who died during the Russo-Turkish War near Pleven, Shipka, Slivnitsa, Doyran. I am under the impression that we are doing a procedure today. What is the order from now on for Pleven to become such a city? What is the order and procedure from now on for Slivnitsa to become such a city? Almost everyone in this room may have relatives who have left their bones in glorious places for the Bulgarian army and Bulgarian history. I'm one of those people. I have relatives, great-grandfathers who left their bones behind during a war that is not being discussed today. This has genuinely raised the question of fellow historians, and I, as such, to make a common approach, a common idea for the magnifying of all these places where the Bulgarian fighting spirit has been glorified. Because it will also be an appeal to generations to turn to history, to see what glorious ancestors they had, because we as politicians should also know a single rule that history should not serve politicians, politicians should work for history, so that they can leave a mark in it, not rewrite it. Unfortunately, there are such examples in everyday life as you want. A noble idea today, a truly noble idea and must be supported, but it must not be stopped so far, to move forward to Pleven. We pass Slivnitsa, and those who travel and foreigners, and Bulgarians along Slivnitsa, see also the inscriptions that are placed on the hills before Slivnitsa. Colleagues say there are places that are outside Bulgaria, of course, where glorious battles have been fought. Colleagues, let us make this a common state initiative and not close with these two places. Yes, the achievements are great. Prof. Mihov just told us with a large pathos how South Dobrudzha was connected to Bulgaria.. indisputable fact, but we have lost many other Bulgarian lands that were very common. You know, the Thracian refugees issue has not been resolved yet, the disputes with Turkey. Let's put all this under a common denominator and not turn history into a hostage of politics, because I'm afraid that's what we're doing today. Perhaps this issue should also be discussed with fellow Members of the other parliamentary groups. There are MPs from these areas who are not familiar with this initiative who have not taken part in this topic, but may have had better proposals. Therefore, I say again, I personally fear, and what Mr. Ademov said that we are placing under political denominator a great deed done by our ancestors will not become a tradition and something that will become a permanent work of the National Assembly. Personally, I'm afraid of getting to that point. I call on importers not to stop there because I am personally on the verge of refraining from supporting such a thing because I am thinking of other important events in our past. Don't forget your ancestors, dear colleagues! Remember those who have left their bones no matter what time and in which part of the Balkan Peninsula! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? You have the floor for a line, Mr. Gajev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u19	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I take the floor only to quickly dispel some of the doubts you expressed in your speech. The decision we are currently looking at is based on initiatives that arose in Dobrich and Tutrakan, supported by a decision of the municipal councils in both areas. If there are colleagues who are not familiar with the decisions of the municipal councils, by the way most are from 2016, the process is not from yesterday. The initiative of the local communities in Dobrich and Tutrakan has been under way for two years now. Accordingly, the municipal councils and the mayors wrote not only to the National Assembly, they wrote to all institutions in Bulgaria that could take part. To be honest, it is an honor to meet my colleague Manushev that he really took things to heart and we have reached this point. You are right that there are many other cities that could carry a similar title to cities of war fame, but there is no solution to the municipal councils or such an initiative launched within the cities themselves. If there is one, we would love to support it one by one. Secondly, we are now at the end of the 100th anniversary of World War I celebrations. Unfortunately, of all the battles with which the Bulgarian Army was glorified during World War I, only these two cities were left, only these two battles took place in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Undoubtedly, Slivnitsa, the battles are during the Balkan wars, there are also many such occasions to continue with this, I hope it will become a tradition now, but let there be initiatives from the local authorities for this as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Second line? I can't see. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Gazhev, dear colleagues! I think I welcomed this initiative from the beginning. Unfortunately, for me, it has become available and famous today. And not only to me, but also to a large part of the colleagues here in the Chamber has become famous today. The big question that I want to ask is how will you stimulate you as importers and we, as MPs, will become empathetic to this initiative so that these and other Bulgarian cities, where the bones of Bulgarian heroes who died in other wars can be brought here, in this Chamber and voted, give them the necessary honor and dignity, the necessary recognition? This is the question so that they do not sink into the fascination of oblivion, because, magnifying today two cities, which is very correct, of course, but we must remember when we say about others. The question is how we will stimulate them and how these cities will get on this list. For me, that was unclear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm closing the debate. I'll read: Project! DECISION announcing the town of Dobrich and the city of Tutrakan for the town of Bulgarian fighting glory The National Assembly on the basis of art. 88 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. He declared the town of Dobrich a city of the Bulgarian military glory. 2. The town of Tutrakan is declared a city of the Bulgarian military glory. Please, voting mode. 130 MPs voted: 130, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Applause.]] The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, we continue with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FAMILY HELPS FOR CHILDREN. Report from the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u23	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On 12 September 2018, the Commissioner for Children, Youth and Sports at a regular meeting held on 12 September 2018 discussed and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 802-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Lazar Lazarov, Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy, Mrs. Milena Pavlova, State Expert at the Department of Social Inclusion, Mrs. Radiona Nikova, Director of the Department of Politics and Programs for the Child, Strategic Development and Coordination and Mr. Plamen Takov, Senior Legal Consult from the State Agency for Child Protection. On behalf of the importers, Deputy Minister Lazar Lazarov informed the MPs that the proposed amendments and additions provide additional social rights for one category of children who are not entitled to receive a survivor's pension in the event of one or two parents' death or do not meet the criteria for access to a personal pension. A new type of family assistance shall be introduced and the arrangements for receiving such assistance shall be in line with the classic types of family assistance for children. These aids may be received together with other aid under this law. It is estimated that the children who will be beneficiaries of this aid will be around 5600. The Commission has received an opinion on the draft Law by the State Agency for Child Protection, which supports the proposed amendments in principle, but proposes to extend the scope of the aid granted to extramarital and adopted children. In addition, the opinion proposes to remove the income criterion for parents receiving the aid, as well as to provide it until the end of secondary schooling, but not more than 20 years of age, provided that the child regularly attends school. The following discussion was attended by the People's Representative Vesela Lecheva, who expressed support for the bill, pointing out the need to refine and supplement some of the texts between first and second readings. As a result of the 19-vote vote, the Committee on Children, Youth and Sports proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Family Aid Act for Children, No 802-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 August 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u24	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. My fellow Members, I am opening the debate on the bill. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u25	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! With the proposed legislative amendments to the Family Aid Act for children, it is intended to solve a problem that has been on the public's mind for a long time, namely that a large part of children who have lost one or two parents who are not entitled to a survivor's pension due to the fact that their parents have not done the required social security service under the Social Security Code. Initially the initiative for changes in legislation in favour of children who lost parents started from the letter to Santa, written by lawyer Zlatina Hadjipanyotova, mother of three children whose husband died. The initiative was then launched by the Ombudsman Maya Manolova and the Social Ministry, who developed this bill. At present, for those cases where children are not entitled to a survivor's pension, the Social Security Code and the regulations provide for the possibility of granting a personal pension, but there are very serious restrictions, namely the annual income of a family member, of persons, to be smaller than the sum of the guaranteed minimum income for the previous 12 months before the pension application. I would just like to remind you that the amount of the guaranteed minimum income until 31 December 2017 was 65 BGN and from 1 January this year is 75 BGN. For one parent with one child, the threshold for access to personal pension is 150 BGN, for a parent with two children - 225 BGN. This is an extremely low threshold, a serious restriction, and for this reason not all children whose parents have not acquired the required insurance service are entitled to a personal pension. This leads, as I said, to financial support for a limited range of children with a deceased parent. According to the Unified System of Civil Registration and Administrative Service of the Population as of 23 February this year, the total number of children up to the age of 20 with one deceased parent is 29 992, and 664 children are with two deceased parents. According to the 2017 NSI data, only 2693 children up to the age of 20 received a personal pension, the remaining around 5600 remained virtually without special support after the loss of a parent. The introduction of this kind of new monthly family assistance to a child without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent will guarantee the financial support of more children. As a kind of family aid, the new monthly aid will meet the conditions and principles on which family support is based both in terms of access conditions and in terms of determining its size. The bill provides for the amount of monthly aid to be determined annually by the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, which cannot be less than the previous year. The amount of monthly aid will be guaranteed higher than the amount of the personal pension currently received, which is currently 113 BGN. The new monthly aid will also be available with the other types of family aid under the Family Aid Act for children. The bill is intended to enter into force from 1 January 2019. It is envisaged that persons who have been granted the new family monthly assistance will have their personal pension terminated and will have one period of adaptation and transition from getting a personal pension to receiving monthly support under the Family Aid Act for children. We believe that the place of this financial support for children with a deceased parent who are not entitled to a survivor's pension is precisely in the Family Aid Act for children. In essence, this is financial aid and as such falls within the scope of social assistance. The personal pension, which shall be granted under art. 92 of the Social Security Code is not related to a social contribution, as well as some other pensions that are not related to a social contribution, such as: social disability pension, social retirement pension for old age, they all have the character of social payments and the place is not in the state social security. We believe that this step marks the beginning of something new that has been spoken of for a long time, namely bringing out all non-specific social security payments to the social assistance system. The financial projections made by the Ministry of Finance show that for about 5600 children, the necessary financial resources to secure this new monthly family assistance in the Family Aid Act will be about 4 million. lv. They are provided and read in the Social Ministry budget project. The bill was adopted unanimously by the members of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee at its meeting. I hope that he will also receive unanimous support today, here in plenary, because this is a legislative initiative in the right direction that deserves attention and, above all, in support of children who have lost a parent and without the right to a survivor's pension. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u26	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. Are there any lines? I won't. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear Mr. Gokov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I suppose I will surprise you, but I will express my positive attitude to the amendments to the Family Aid Act for children. These changes introduce a new kind of monthly support for children.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u28	Excuse me, Mr. Gokov. Dear colleagues, please take your seats and let's keep some silence in the room so we can hear Mr. Gokov. Thank you for understanding. Please continue, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u29	I wanted to say that these changes introduce a new kind of monthly assistance for children with one or two deceased parents and solve a problem that has been making it difficult for these children for years. What's the status so far? Children to whom a parent died or both parents died, but in their lifetime they did not respond to the insurance service required to grant the survivor's pension, they were not entitled to a survivor's pension. However, the legislator had provided for the possibility of granting a personal pension under certain terms and conditions. With the provision of art. 92 of the Social Security Code is provided for the Council of Ministers under the terms and conditions laid down by it in exceptional cases, and I stress that in exceptional cases it should grant pensions to persons in respect of whom some of the requirements under the same Code are not available. For example, such pensions are precisely those of children without the right to a survivor's pension from a deceased parent. Secondly, women who are over the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the Social Security Code, who gave birth and raised five or more children until the age of 18 years and, lastly, to persons over the age of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 3 of the Social Security Code, which have cared for more than 10 years for people with disabilities, members of their families who are constantly in need of foreign assistance, and under family members are considered husband, wife, and their ascending and descending straight-line relatives. These changes concern the first case, children with a deceased parent who are not entitled to a survivor's pension. I am familiar with this problem and with the current clumsy procedure for granting a personal pension. As a municipal councillor and president of the permanent Social Policy Committee, I have had dozens of applications and documents to grant personal pensions to children whose parents or parents have died. People do not know the terms and conditions laid down by the Council of Ministers, namely that in order to receive such a personal pension, they must be refused by the National Insurance Institute to grant a survivor's pension, to obtain the documents and to submit them to the municipal council or the Council of Ministers. In any case, the municipal council must get acquainted with the specific cases and come up with a solution that there are no problems to relax the personal pension. If the documents are submitted to the Council of Ministers, they shall be sent to the municipal council for an opinion and decision and shall thus be returned to the Council of Ministers. The most important thing is that people are not aware of the income criterion, and in many cases they prepare documents, and then it turns out that children have no right because of this criterion and remain disappointed with it. Quite a complicated procedure at all. Therefore, I now state that the Bill meets the need for special protection and support for children who are not raised by their two parents due to death in the family. And I have one more thing to say. This bill requires full support because, first of all, I would say that the amendments to the Family Aid Act introduces a new kind of monthly support for children with one or two deceased parents. This bill meets the need for special protection and support of these children. This helps these children and the surviving parent, if any, to receive any support for the protection and support of children who are not raised by their two parents and to avoid the severe procedure for granting such support through a personal pension. Secondly, I would mention that this is the right step to remove some of the personal pensions from the Social Security Code because they are not related to employment. The issue of other personal pensions and other non-serving pensions remains open and has nothing to do with the insurance and social contribution of the persons. And these are the social pension for old age, the social pension for disability and the pension for special merit. I hope that there is a vision in the ruling majority to solve this problem entirely, i.e. to expect legislative solutions in this direction soon, to remove all those non-employment-related pensions from the pension system. To go in this direction and thus the transfer made by the Ministry of Finance to state social security will be reduced, reduced, and seriously, and speculation will stop that the pension system is too much subsidized by the state budget. I'll make one criticism of the bill. It relates to the fact that in the new proposal remains the income criterion and the condition for receiving monthly support for children with one or two deceased parents. So again, not all children with a deceased parent will be able to benefit from new help. I'm raising the question by being aware of the answer. It is true that we have adopted, in principle, in our social legislation, support for those in need, that is, differentiated. That is, the most deprived to receive support from the state. In this case, we cannot say that they are all of equal need for assistance, but it is also clear that these are Bulgarian children placed in an unfair or disadvantaged position in society, and they should be shown care and support by the state. Even more so, there are exceptions to this principle, for example, in monthly aid to people with disabilities. Between the first and second votes, I ask the importers to provide us with an estimate of how much additional funds will be needed if all children with a deceased parent receive such support, i.e. if the income criterion is dropped. I am putting the matter right now, to the first vote, because from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we will make a proposal for a second vote to drop this criterion. According to the National Insurance Institute, as of 31 December 2017 22 099 children up to the age of 20 receive inherited pensions and 20 693 children up to the age of 20 receive personal pensions. According to ECGRAON and other population statistics in early 2018, the total number of children up to the age of 20 with one living parent is 29 992, and 664 children are with two deceased parents. I've been bothering to do an account. Out of a total of 30,656 children, by removing from them those who receive inheritance and personal pensions, remain 5864 children who receive nothing. That is, we are talking about a total of so many children who, if everyone is supported, this will hardly destroy the budget of the state, but the gesture to them will be appreciated by both the surviving parent and the Bulgarian society. Another issue that concerns me, even though it is not the subject of this bill, is the amount of new aid. The reasons under the Bill state that the new monthly aid will meet the conditions and principles on which family support is based, both in terms of access conditions and in terms of the definition of its size. Following the proposed changes, the amount of monthly aid will be determined annually with the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, which cannot be less than the previous year. The aid will only be provided in money. That doesn't make me feel any better. Knowing how stingy you are for social costs and especially for social benefits, I would like to say here in the Bill, to set an automatic mechanism for determining the amount of aid, without wanting to raise discussions on this issue, and on this subject, I can say, for example, at the rate of 50% of the poverty line. Now the access to this aid is determined by the guaranteed minimum income, which was 65 BGN. Until recently, and from this year it's BGN 75. I'm done here. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and we support the Bill of First Voting. We are making a proposal between the first and second votes in favour of these disadvantaged children in society with a call for you to think about the issues which I raised at the first vote and to make mutual compromises and to convince the Finance Ministry that it is worth removing this income criterion. We'll support the bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Are there any lines? I won't. Mr. Ali, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u31	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Parliamentary Group for Rights and Freedoms will support the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aids Act for children, as we believe that this is a legal act which gives not only financial support to children without parents or parents and those children who do not have the right to personal pension and survivor's pension, but also corrects an injustice in terms of these children living in a secure environment and receiving financial support from the state. We also believe, honourable Members, that through the adoption of this bill, we will ensure equal conditions for those around 5,600 children who cover the bill, with those children who have also lost their parents or parents, but are entitled to an inheritance or personal pension. In addition, the parliamentary group of the European Parliament, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, fully supports one of the conditions laid down in the Bill, namely the financial support to bind the child to attend a regular kindergarten or school. We believe that this condition has an educational effect, and it also imposes responsibility on both the person and his parent or guardian. As I said at the outset, the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms will support this PID of the Family Aids Act for Children. We believe that this is a highly humane act against these children, which the Bill covers, as I have told you, these are about 5,600 children, and we believe it will provide equal conditions for the development of children together with their peers, and these children feel the support of the institutions and the state at a difficult time for them. Furthermore, honourable Members, from the parliamentary group, we reserve the right between first and second readings of the Bill to make proposals for amendments.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Ali. Are there any lines? I won't. Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u33	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! At the risk of repeating some of the things that have been said so far, but I will repeat them because, looking at the interest in this House, it is good to repeat them so that we know what this is about. According to the proposed changes that we are currently looking at in the amendment of the Family Aid Act for children, 5,600 children who have lost one or two parents and have no right to a survivor's pension will receive a new kind of social assistance. The reason for not receiving such a pension is the lack of years of insurance or contribution. The only option at the moment was the personal pension, which was granted on income under the guaranteed minimum income and such personal pension received 2,700 Bulgarian children. This personal pension amounted to BGN 113. monthly. The Council of Ministers does not give clarity about the amount that will be the aid. As it is currently regulated in the proposal, this will be done with the State Budget Act. From the estimates that have been made, and Mrs. Angelova mentioned it, the amount that will be needed amounts to about 4 million. lv. The declarations of the Ministry are that the amount will be higher than the personal pension, which I will repeat again is BGN 113. Four million leva for 5,600 kids! This means that this family support for children will equal somewhere around 115 BGN. Is that the bigger amount? My other question is: at the beginning, as Mrs. Angelova said, the proposal came not from the initiative of the Ministry, but from a letter to Santa Claus and from a protest of parents. It is unclear why the Ministry always acts after certain protests and does not assume the social responsibility it bears as the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy? When the discussion with regard to this legal vacuum started and the inability of a certain group of children who are deprived of one or two parents is necessary to receive such assistance, then the proposal was not to have a lucrative criterion. At the moment, the proposed proposal has introduced the income criterion and I ask the question: why? Here we are talking about children deprived of one parent - 5600 children according to the estimates given to us. How much would it cost for the state to drop this lucrative criterion, given that the Social Assistance Act also has exceptions in the Family Aid Act for children? It is good to think between first and second readings to review the proposal that has been made. I will introduce another opportunity for those children who are deprived of parental care. Article 82, para. 1 of the Social Security Code I am sorry to talk to members, but it is important to be able to look at the possibility of obtaining a survivor's pension from children deprived of a parent. There, the age that has been introduced is 26 years if children learn. I agree that the mandatory opportunity, which has been introduced with the current proposal for children to study, is an important condition for them to receive this type of assistance, but in art. 82, para. 1, age is 26 years. Since we refer to the possibility of pensions for children deprived of parents because of art. 92 of the Social Security Code, where we comment on personal pensions, also refers to art. 82, and there the age again is 26, why with the proposal so made are we limiting the age to 20? I know the answer of the Ministry.. because in the Family Aid Act for Children the age that has been introduced is 20 years old, but in this case we are talking about the hypotheses of receiving a pension or those who are not entitled to this type of pension because they do not have a social contribution. Why don't we think about it this way? Our parliamentary group will also make a proposal in this direction so that we do not discriminate against the children of Bulgaria. We will support this proposal, but between first and second readings I hope that you will reconsider and accept our proposals for dropping the income criterion and increasing the opportunity for more Bulgarian children deprived of parents to receive this help. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u34	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Dear Dr. Ademov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u35	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will be very brief, all the more so that much of the arguments in support of this bill have been expressed. However, I would like to say something that my colleagues mentioned, but did not specify this exciting letter to Santa has an author. This author is named lawyer Zlatina Hadjipanyotova from Gabrovo, who shook the public space with her emotional tone and with the request to solve this problem. The dignity of this letter was that Mrs Hadjipanayotova, despite having orphan children, proudly said that she did not need this support and did all this in the name of the other children who did not meet the condition that the deceased parents would have the necessary insurance service to be able to receive this state support. I think it is important to note this because this initiative was then taken over by the Ombudsman of the Republic of the Republic of Maya Manolova and hence started the initiative of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and had different ideas. One idea was to change the regulation that settled the issue of personal pensions. After all, it has come to the establishment of a new kind of family assistance for the children. Honourable Members, this is the first step for the legal figure of the personal pension to travel from state social security to the support system. However, there remains another possibility for a personal pension, albeit in a limited form,... mothers with five or more children are entitled to such a personal pension. In other words, the logic is that all non-labour-related pensions leave state social security and go, if I may say so, to the social assistance system. In practice, the first step has been made, other options remain, so that public social security can be cleared of non-employment pensions. In this way, the transfer from the Ministry of Finance to the state social security budget will be reduced and there will be a clear assessment of who pays how much in the state social security system. Here it was said that there would be a proposal between first and second reading to drop the income criterion. The income criterion, as you well know, is BGN 450. of a family member and a very small part of those children who would receive such a new kind of social assistance.... about 5,600 children who currently do not receive a survivor's pension could meet the income criterion, but a small part of them would probably surpass this criterion. There are already exceptions, as has been said just now, in the Social Assistance Act and in the Family Aid Act for children, where there is an exception for disabled children to have no income criterion. The question arises: should we follow the principles of social assistance, where in Bulgaria the support is differentiated, that is to say those who have the most need, those who cannot handle it alone, or should we adopt the principle of exclusion? The National Assembly must seriously consider and convince the Ministry of Finance that for this very small category the income criterion should be dropped and they should enter the group of exceptions. As they say: in Bulgaria there is always one exception leading to the next exception. Therefore, my request is, ladies and gentlemen, that we now support the Bill so that we can resolve this extremely socially sensitive problem in the country. It's about orphan children, it's even about 660 round orphan children. Once again, I call on the MPs to support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u36	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Are there lines? Any other speeches? I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children, No 802-01-29, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. You have the floor for procedure, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u37	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly propose that the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the bill for amendment and supplement of the Family Aid Act for children be 3 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u38	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. Vote 98 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm calling an adjournment. Beginning of parliamentary control 11:00 p.m. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u39	Good afternoon, colleagues. Let's start with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. Before we start with it, I will read a communication about parliamentary control regarding personal changes to the Council of Ministers. With regard to personal changes to the Council of Ministers on 20 September 2018 of irresponsible questions and questions addressed to the elected ministers, the Members of the National Assembly will receive oral or written answers from the newly elected ministers. According to parliamentary practice, the elected ministers will be given time to get acquainted with the questions and questions asked, to prepare or update the answers already drawn up, to shape them according to their views and to plan their participation in the plenary session for parliamentary control on 28 September 2018. There have been new requests for the period from 14 to 20 September 2018 from: - Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova to Rumen Porozhanov The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 28 September 2018. - MPs Georgi Yordanov Yordanov, Mihail Ivaylov Hristov, Dora Ilieva Yankova, Georgi Yanchev Gokov, Ilian Angelov Timchev, Dragomir Velkov Stoynev to Biser Petkov The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 28 September 2018. Written answers from: - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva and Asya Peeva; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the MPs Georgi Gokov and Nikola Dinkov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Georgi Turnovalyski and Stefan Burgev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Aleksandar Sabanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Radostin Tanev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Elena Aksieva; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Alexander Sabanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Declaration on behalf of the Group of GERB. Mr. Bikov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u40	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! On September 22, 1908, the Bulgarian Tsar Ferdinand declared Bulgaria's independence in the Church of St. Forty Martyrs in Veliko Tarnovo. This act officially marks the beginning of the new Bulgarian statehood and ends with success the efforts of generations of Bulgarians to create a complete Bulgarian national state. The place where independence is declared is no coincidence. From the old capital Veliko Tarnovo, the rulers of the Second Bulgarian Kingdom built one of the most powerful European medieval countries. The power of this country is so strong that even its 500-year absence from the map of Europe is not able to completely delete the memory of it. More than that. The memory of the achievements of the kings of the First and Second Bulgarian Kingdom became an inspiration and an engine for our national revival in the middle of the XIX century. This historical continuity is a thread that still connects the Bulgarian nation together and makes it resistant to the challenges of time. The Act of Independence of 1908 was the result of the struggles for the Bulgarian church independence, which began in Constantinople in 1860 and played a crucial role in returning the Bulgarian nation to the map of Europe. The acquisition of independence passes through the thousands of victims of the national liberation movement, which, at the cost of their own blood, laid the foundations of the modern Bulgarian national identity. Bulgarian independence passes through the image of the Apostle of Freedom and the national ideal formulated by him, which remains up to date to be equal to the other European peoples. The celebration of Bulgarian independence gathers the efforts of those Bulgarians who, in the name of this ideal, dared to break the international order and declare the Unification of the Principality of Bulgaria and Eastern Rumelia, and then with weapons to defend this act during the Serbian-Bulgarian War. Independence is the result of the efforts of a number of governments and parliaments, who, after the Liberation with perseverance and patience, built the Bulgarian national state and its institutions. The declaration of Bulgaria's independence in 1908 neither comes surprisingly nor is it a gift to the Bulgarians. It is the product of a long-standing and targeted political strategy that unites both the Bulgarian political elite and the entire Bulgarian people. This unity plays a crucial role in the then complex and dynamic international situation in which between the clashes of geopolitical interests the young Bulgarian state and its leaders King Ferdinand and Prime Minister Alexander Malinov show determination and willingness to pay with everything the return of the Bulgarian state to the map of Europe. Today September 22 is not just a memory, this day is present and future, because it focuses on the historical continuity of Bulgarian statehood, without which the Bulgarian nation would not be complete. Despite the conjunctual gaps, this holiday stood up to the time and challenges facing the Bulgarian people. During the periods when he was not honored by the official state, he was not forgotten. After 22 September was removed from the national calendar after 1944, when Bulgaria again lost its independence, he returned as a public holiday in 1998 to remind us that in the history of a nation there are irreparable events that the independence of a country consists, above all, of the right of its people to choose the path on its own, even if this time is not a light one. The Bulgarian road was never easy. In addition to sacrifice for the sake of creation, this time has often been filled with mistakes and betrayals that have brought Bulgarians against Bulgarians. Today, we must remember that independence and the right to choose a nation are at great risk and enormous responsibility. As MPs, we should be an emancipation of this responsibility and not put at risk the unity of the nation and its right to choose. We should be guided by the example of King Ferdinand and Prime Minister Aleksandar Malinov, who 110 years ago took the risk of declared independence and with their wise behaviour successfully completed a process of national awareness, thanks to whom we have today Bulgarian statehood. Independence is not a holiday, but a cause that is defended with effort and perseverance. It's a red line that no politician has the right to cross. Independence is an expression of the unity of a national community. It does not feed on conflicts, but on seeking and finding common causes for the whole society. 110 years ago she gathered in one place monarch Tsar Ferdinand, Besarab Bulgarian Alexander Malinov, Macedonian Bulgarian Andrei Lyapchev, Mysian Bulgarian Nikola Mushanov, Thracian Bulgarian Ivan Salabashev, representatives of all faiths, ethnicities and political forces, of all groups in society and of all Bulgarian people. Therefore, today's Independence Day is an undisputed expression of national unity and a will for national success. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, let's forget about political passions and petty disputes on this real holiday. This is a celebration of Bulgarian optimism, which the Bulgarian people have won and deserved alone. Happy Thanksgiving! Long live Bulgaria! [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u41	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. It's nice, really, to remember these dates, to respect them. It is even better if we manage to live and work so that we can do something so great that there is some date that our heirs will mention with good. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Mr. Rumen Porozhanov will be the first to respond to a question from the National Representative Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova concerning the financial situation of the Irrigation Systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! My question is related to information about the financial situation of the Irrigation Systems. We have to say that there is strong social tension in the Irrigation Systems. This information comes from both employees in the sector and trade unions. There are various rumours about mass cuts or restructuring of Irrigation Systems, which, accordingly, cause concern to those working in Irrigation Systems. The 2017 Irrigation Systems reports show that the obligations to workers in Irrigation Systems are increasing: for 2017 compared to 2016, they have been increased by 15 percent. There are other liabilities to the NRA, to other organizations, estimated to be around 30 million. My question to you relates to the following. First, what are the obligations towards the company's staff at the end of the pouring season of 2018? Is there a request from the Board of Directors or from the Board for the forced use of unpaid leave or for work during reduced working hours, because this is one of the information that appeared in the public domain? What measures will be taken to solve the financial problems of the company's Irrigation Systems, because these obligations are a burden of the company, they cannot be crossed out, they should simply be managed in some form in order for the company to be able to fulfil its obligations during the next watering season. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. I take this opportunity to point out that you have been very strict in time and to ask the following colleagues to try to follow the procedures. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u44	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, as of 31 August this year "Irrigation systems" do not have a duty to the staff. In accordance with art. 160, para. 1 of the Labour Code the employer may, at the request of the worker or employee, grant him unpaid leave, whether or not he has taken his annual leave, and regardless of the duration of his work experience. This is the right of the worker or employee to exercise by volition of his carrier and of the opposite party. The rule is that leave is enjoyed at the request of the entitled person addressed to the employer and after express authorisation. "Irrigation systems" is a commercial company with a branch structure, with an organization-economic entity being an employer and having legal personality according to art. 357 of the Labor Code. The right to leave shall be exercised in strict compliance with labour law and the existing collective labour contract. The measures to improve the financial situation of the Irrigation Systems are aimed at increasing revenues and optimizing costs. The aim is to serve the company's debt and create conditions for its participation as a beneficiary under the operational programmes of the European Union for the rehabilitation of hydromeliorative infrastructure and the improvement of the quality of services. In addition, I would like to tell you that staff duties have increased as a number, but at the end of each financial statement, as you know, the obligation for December, which is paid in January, is taken into account, for example. Since the increase in the Fund itself, the increase in 2017 compared to 2016. One of the main problems of the company are the major obligations. They are structured in several directions. I have commented, I have had the opportunity to comment on this to you. With major creditors, such as the electricity distribution companies, we have made deferral and repayment agreements. There have been some very strange obligations for me that have been given and in the prosecution I will not quote companies for more than 10 million. lv. Unfortunately, there are sometimes executive sheets that are realized. Another great obligation of the Irrigation Systems, which we have also found, are the obligations to the State, to the IRA. They are currently between 8 million and 9 million. lv. and are, as you know, high interest rates over 10%. What we intend to do is precisely restructuring this obligation. We are in an active dialogue and I hope, within one month, that the Irrigation Systems will take a bank loan to repay the liabilities to the IRA, which will be restructuring as an obligation, at an interest rate of 3.5% compared to the current more than 10%. So the Irrigation Systems is a company with its difficulties. It's not a secret to you that, along with the active rainfall in July, and the month of August... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. This violated the irrigation revenue in certain areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u45	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Bachvarova, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u46	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, precisely of those obligations that you are talking about, which are not very few, comes the concern of those employed in the Irritating Systems............................................................................. The information I have at my disposal, and I tell you, it is from people employed in the Irritation Systems, is that they are forced to go on unpaid leave, not that they do it of their own free will, in order to reduce precisely the wage funds. You provoked me by saying that you intend to withdraw credit. Is the inventory related to this credit that I also received written information about? What is the value of the new inventory assets that the Irrigation Systems is acquiring? Is this still going to enable the Irrigation Systems to participate, you said, in operational programmes or under the Rural Development Programme, once these obligations are in some form covered and the company has the opportunity to apply for programmes? After all, one of the ideas to pay so much attention to the "Irrigation systems" in the state budget to have funds to focus on activities that the "Irrigation systems" implemented for preventive activities regarding the environment was precisely the company to participate in programmes to stabilise the assets and also financially the company.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u47	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear Minister, you're entitled to the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u48	Thank you. With regard to the opportunities for participation in the operational programmes, the measure "Hydromeliorations" is currently being signed. She's not in the program. It will be examined at the Monitoring Committee at the beginning of November, I cannot tell you the exact date. Then it will be examined, after which it will be presented to the Committee for Supplement to the Programme. Yes, Irritating systems and water associations are currently exploring whether cooperatives can be part of the beneficiaries, to be beneficiaries of hydromeliorative facilities, internal hydromeliorative infrastructure and so on. So obligations to the state are also an obstacle that does not allow for application of the programmes. In the context of the restructuring of the liabilities, this is also the moment. As an economist, I don't see how inventory could be linked to this debt. Inventory recalculates assets and compensates in the balance sheet. The debt to the NRA, which I told you would be used for credit, has nothing to do with this thing. Regarding restructuring, yes, there is talk of restructuring. I've never come from a carte blanche or anything like that to make a restructuring of existing infrastructure. The only thing that is also communicating with trade unions is optimizing mostly within the administrative staff of the administrative staff, which is in the branches. We're waiting for suggestions at the branches, but I wouldn't allow myself to do it, say purge or anything else. Quite the opposite of having an optimal composition that really works functionally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u49	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We move on to a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On September 22, 2018, it was 110 years since the declaration of the Independence of Bulgaria. This event has its own importance in the series of events confirming the Bulgarian statehood, such as the Liberation and United. This trinity of Bulgarian state existence appears for a reason during the course of our historical self-awareness. Independence puts the final point of the national liberation struggles of the Bulgarian people against five centuries of Ottoman slavery and interrupts all the bonds and conditions put by the Great Powers in the unfair Berlin treaty for the Bulgarians. On March 3, 1878, between Russia and Turkey, the Sanstefan peace treaty was signed, with which the Bulgarian state was restored within its very ethnic boundaries. A few months later, however, led by their interests on the Balkan Peninsula, the European Great Powers, represented at a congress in Berlin, revised this treaty, placing the Bulgarian Princeship under the sovereignty of the High Gate. The declaration of Independence undoubtedly has, above all, foreign policy importance, overcoming the restrictions imposed on the conclusion of military and political treaties by the new state. In addition, the diplomatic representatives of Bulgaria enjoy the lowest status in the then diplomatic hierarchy. The proclamation of Bulgaria's Independence in 1908 was not self-righteous, separated from our overall development political act. As noted by the then foreign observers of the processes in the newly created state, Bulgaria is developing at an amazing pace, railways, factories are being built, the capital of the state is being built, national cultural and educational institutions are being established and established. This development impresses then Europe. The lack of independence from the Ottoman Empire is not limited to the modest annual tax of 1 million. BGN, which the Bulgarian state pays for. As a vassal principality, Bulgaria has no right to conclude international contracts. All the clauses of the so-called capitulation regime are spread over the Bulgarian territory. A system of economic and judicial privileges for Western countries and their subjects dealing with business within the Ottoman Empire. These capitols lead to serious financial losses for the small and dynamically developing country. Therefore, the declaration of Independence has not only foreign policy implications. With each passing year, as a result of Bulgaria's strong and dynamic economic development, it becomes increasingly unacceptable and intolerable its international status as a prince, vassally of the Ottoman Empire. The act of declaring Independence is preceded by two foreign policy events essential to the overall development of the European political process. This is the 1908 Youth Revolution and the exhaustion of Bosnia and Herzegovina's occupation by Austro-Hungary under the Berlin Treaty. Here is the place to stress that the political elite of the then Bulgarian state acted extremely accurately, extremely measured, knowing the dependencies and relations of the then European diplomacy. Choosing the right moment, consulting with Austro-Hungary, our common interests in overcoming the consequences of the Berlin Treaty, Bulgarian King Ferdinand announced Independence on September 22, 1908, arriving from Vienna. This interaction between internal political processes, the consolidation of the Bulgarian political elite, the strong desire of the Bulgarian people to restore their independence, the sense of damaged national honor and dignity after the Berlin Treaty, the territories left outside the Bulgarian state, in which the Bulgarian ethnicity implements its national ideals, are the driving forces of declared independence. The Bulgarian Prince Ferdinand receives the title of king, but Independence is not an act which is an independent act of the Bulgarian crown. Independence is the result of the successive, determined 30-year development of the Bulgarian state, which implements its independence, led by the idea of revision of the Berlin Treaty. As a result of the declared independence, the Bulgarian state began active preparation for the liberation Balkan wars, leading a separate diplomatic and foreign policy activity. This 1908 act shows that the independence of a state, of a society, of a nation is the result of a united effort, of national consolidation, of an internal unity, of overcoming the sense of historical injustice and the rise towards prosperity, towards the future, to the affirmation of the nation within its historical borders. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u51	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. I take this opportunity to say that I dream of the day when Bulgaria, apart from free, independent and united, will also be the most prosperous, richest country in Europe. I am sure that the Bulgarian people will take one day from the calendar to mark this day. Oh, my God, let's go! I am ready to cooperate and cooperate with any Bulgarian citizen who confesses the same dream. Thank you. We continue with the parliamentary control, which is again with a question from the MPs Svetla Marinova Bachvarova and Nikolay Dimitrov Penev on the implementation of the Maritime Affairs and Fisheries Programme. Here you are, Mrs. Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u52	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, my question is related to the ongoing analysis of the implementation of the Maritime and Fisheries Programme. Before I asked the question, I got acquainted with the Annual Report and the Report of the Programme, as well as the Monitoring Committee, which took place in June at the Ministry of Agriculture and Food. The findings made not only in these documents but also by experts who analyse the operational programmes indicate that this programme has the worst performance indicators in terms of implementation of the measures. At the same time, you know that at the end of 2018 not only under this programme, but all the others will have the first verification of the implementation of the Programme, the costs that have been made, interim results and, accordingly, whether these intermediate objectives have been achieved up to this period. Again, in these publications, the number indicated by June is that at the end of June, funds paid out are only 0.63% of the programme. Contracting is really at a slightly better and optimistic level, but payment is at a symbolic level. My question to you is: what measures will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forest take to solve the problems, delay the programme? They should be in the short term because they are until December 2018. The losses that are emerging, and there will be losses, as it is recognised by the experts themselves in the Ministry and responsible political persons, to be minimized at the end of 2018. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u54	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Prof. Bachvarova, Dear Mr. Penev, the Managing Authority of the Maritime and Fisheries Programme regularly prepares analyses on the use of funds from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund, as well as forecasts of the risk for the implementation of the implementation framework under the Programme and by automatic write-off of funds, according to the rule n+3. The amount of funds from the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund for 2015, respectively, which should be 2018, is approximately 22,8 million. Euros. The Managing Authority has taken a complex of measures to achieve the objectives, including: preparing an action plan with specific measures and actions under each support measure, as well as deadlines for their implementation; extending the scope of the persons who can apply under the programme; increasing the number of interim payments; extending the measures for publicity and transparency; outlineing the specific needs of awareness, advertising, PR and training of the administration, candidates and beneficiaries; shortening the deadlines for the evaluations of projects for carrying out ex post controls and processing requests for payment. An amendment to the Programme has been proposed to ensure the fulfilment of the intermediate objectives and implementation of the implementation framework. Continuous communication with the beneficiaries shall be made and methodical assistance shall be provided to them. In the case of projects where beneficiaries have not provided for interim payments, actions have been taken to annex contracts with a view to ensuring the possibility of submitting requests for interim payments before the end of 2018. As many measures as possible, 9 procedures with a total value of approximately 120 million have been opened since the beginning of 2018. BGN, which represents 54% of the budget of the programme. By 2018, the opening of an additional six measures to a total of approximately 35 million is planned. BGN, which represents approximately 16% of the programme. In total, for 2018, the measures adopted by measures amounted to more than 154 million. BGN, or approximately 70% of the programme. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. BGN, or more than 37% of the fisheries programme. It is estimated that 52 projects of approximately 19 million total are under assessment. BGN, or another 9% of the program. In the course of processing, payment requests are, unfortunately, only worth 2 million. lv. Three million has been paid off. BGN, or 1,3% of the Programme At the end of 2018, the funds agreed in the process of implementation, the projects under assessment and the open receptions will cover approximately 97% of the Programme's budget. Despite the efforts made, the absorption of the funds under the n+3 rule and the implementation of the Programme depends largely on the effectiveness and opportunities of the beneficiaries and their performers, which I told you we are in continuous communication on supporting their implementation. In the light of the above, I believe that the necessary administrative and management measures and actions have been taken with a view to achieving the interim objectives of the Programme, as well as reducing the risk of loss under the n+3 rule. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u55	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Bachvarova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u56	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, it is true that the negotiation can generally be defined as relatively successful, but there is no way to fail to appreciate the fact that there was a delay in the Programme and it is not the beneficiaries' fault that the implementation of their projects can take place within these short periods, in which you call for losses. The delay in the programme, and it also seems to me that a number of administrative irregularities that accompany the implementation of this programme are also a prerequisite every time a period comes in which we have to take account of intermediate results, to have problems with payments and a corresponding loss of funds. You tactfully did not say what the loss of funds will be, you probably have some estimates, but also this information that you are confirming at this time is that they will not be little compared to the bets at the end of 2018 that need to be paid out. The question that provokes me from your exposé: you said that the program will have a change, in what directions will this change be - will funds be transferred, what will it be? I'm not familiar. Please inform us in this direction. And the second question, which is a question of analysis in the Ministry.. is there still in the Ministry sufficient administrative capacity to implement the program? If this capacity fulfils its tasks in such a way that you, as well as consumers or beneficiaries, are confident that their projects will be assessed in time, paid and will accordingly create prerequisites for the objectives of the Programme to be met in a way that they are set out without having an extremely high risk of loss of funds not only now, but also in the next period, at the end of the Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u57	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Here you are, Mr. Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u58	With regard to the changes in the Programme, I will reply in writing, but they also include relocating funds under the measures, including for the MIRGs, we do not have a budget for several MIRGs, including others that are attractive and have the opportunity to be used. You have enough information for you, it's not a secret, I can tell you that in May there wasn't a single contract last year. The control and control system wasn't accredited, so we did it in the fall. As you can see, we have now started an active negotiation, which is the technical prerequisite for reducing losses. Yes, we have an estimate. Our reading is optimistic, I don't want to say it now. It is associated with minimal loss under the Programme, so we will do our best to make it according to our estimates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u59	Thank you, dear Minister. The third question is from the MPs Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova and Daniel Petkov Yordanov regarding measures, vision and provision of the protection of the protected area of Velingrad. Here you go, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u60	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers, by Order No 407 of 9 February 1966 of the Committee on Forests and Forest Industry at the Council of Ministers, on the basis of a Decree for the Protection of People's Nature, the state forest in the area of Cleptuza., the town of Velingrad with an area of 412 hectares, is declared a protected area. In support of this, there is also a set-up of activities setting out 12 bans and four permits. I will allow myself to quote several of the bannings: it is prohibited to cut, break, eradicate forest; it is prohibited to grazing livestock; it is prohibited to burn fire; it is prohibited to hunt and hunt animals; it is prohibited to hunt; water pollution is prohibited; the extraction of inert materials is prohibited; the construction of buildings is prohibited. And several permits for afforestation, for picking certain plants, for reducing harmful game and for conducting sanitary logging. In this regard, my question to you is: given this status, what measures and actions has the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry taken to ensure due protection of that territory and compliance with the special regime, including a ban on timber extraction, as well as on building buildings? Have any violations been committed, have the intruders been sanctioned? As well as any current investment intentions in the relevant park? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u61	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u62	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zhekova, Mr. Yordanov, the protected area of Kleptuza is announced, as you said, by Order No 407 of 9 February 1966 of the Forests and Forest Industry Committee in the Land of Velingrad and has an area of 344 hectares. In the order to declare the protected area are declared the prohibitions and eligible activities in the protected area in which they are included... You have read them, and I will not read them either, because they are prepared for me in the answer, but precisely: the bans themselves on logging, breaking and extermination, of course, and the ban on building buildings and roads, outside the areas designated for this purpose, with the plan for the development of protected areas. And permission to conduct sanitary logging in the woods. In view of the ban on logging in the protected area, the territorial division plan of the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development is not intended to use wood on the territory of the protected area. The permit to conduct the types of logging is provided after prescriptions received by the Regional Forests Directorate Pazardzhik and the Lesprotective Station Plovdiv. They are in accordance with art. Art. 34, art. 35 of Ordinance No 8 of 2011 on logging in forests, where the order and method of carrying out sanitary and forced logging caused by biotic and abiotic factors is described. In order to eliminate the damage caused in March 2015, due to precipitation and heavy and wet snow, since then, in a protected area, the SPAs and forced loggings of a total of 144 hectares have been extracted from which 13 500 cubic metres of wood have been obtained. The conditions and procedure for issuing the logging permit are respected. As a result of the forestry events, the forest of the protected area is in good health condition. After this heavy snow, many of the fallen trees cannot be removed because they are a potential disease infector and this is precisely what has been done to clean up the damage since 2015. No illegal construction within the forest areas of the protected area was found in the verification carried out on 17 September this year. There's no way to extract investment intentions. I'm talking about the forest areas. The spring and lake of the protected area of Kleptuza are urbanized territory owned by Velingrad municipality. The existing commercial sites are also owned by the municipality. I make a distinction about what is found in the forest territory and what is the urbanised part of the city of Velingrad, which is not within the competence of forest management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u63	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Do you have a line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u64	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! Our question is provoked by numerous complaints, applications, protests by residents of Velingrad, including the Initiative Committee. The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has also been called upon in relation to the protected territory of Cleptuza. In their address, as it is to me, as it is to the Ministry, they turn to us to help protect the territory of Cleptuza, because it is a protection not only for the forest, but for the karst spring, the lakes, the river, and the entrance to the park. The whole territory, as Minister Porozhanov mentioned earlier, has been confirmed by an order of 1966 and on the basis of an Decree of the Council of Ministers, this is not just an order. This territory is defined as a state forest. At the moment, dear Mr. Porozhanov, you mentioned very different figures related to the scope of the 1966 warrant, which is startling to me. What I see as hectares is a separate area of 412 hectares, and you mentioned 344. What has imposed the change in territorial scope, since all the documents are in front of me, and the order is in front of me, talking about a completely different territory? What you are commenting on is that it does not fall within the scope of forest territory, but is a separate, urbanised territory, it is not clear by this order. I'm going to continue with the complaints of the citizens. I'm sorry if I get out of time, but there's no mention of sheds, sheds, kebab tables anywhere in the government's documents. This is what the citizens of Velingrad write. The 1966 warrant did not for a reason call for the state forest. So I'd like you to give me an answer to these questions. The other thing I'm interested in. After all, the company "Alabak" sent a written reply, dated 12 September 2018, to the complaint of the Initiative Committee. From the reply of the company in Smolyan, I see that they have made a mistake by taking the order - they have entered a date 1964. I don't know why, after it is 1966, after which they write that all actions have been taken...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u65	I'm very sorry, but...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u66	...by protecting this territory, but from the complaints that you have, it becomes clear that part of the territory that falls within the scope of the kept forest has actions related to construction that should be verified. Thank you. Sorry about the overdue time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u67	Thank you. After all, you give facts about any violations, trying not to make any violations. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u68	Thank you. You have entered into quite specific things, including a comparison of the numbers on the territory itself. I suggest that you judge, invite and you, of course, or your representative, do not necessarily come to the Forest Agency to clarify these things. The information was when I spoke explicitly this morning, after preparing the answer that we did not have built terrains in the forest areas. There is a distinction between urbanised and forested. Let's see in time how this distinction has become. With regard to forests, the state of the forest itself after cleaning is in good functional condition. Based on the specific things that you have presented from various complaints, my proposal to you is: if you are giving specific complaints, of course, and not being answered, they must be answered. That's what we need to communicate with him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u69	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to you is from the MPs Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova and Rumen Nikolov Georgiev on tobacco production problems and the measures the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is taking to solve them. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The cultivation of tobacco in Bulgaria apart from economic importance has significant social importance, as in certain low productive soils this culture is the main one for the population. So it's at the heart of his traditional livelihood. The reason for our question with Professor Bachvarova, Minister, is the meeting we had last week with residents from the town of Satovcha and the villages from Satovcha municipality. There, as I said, tobacco production is a major livelihood. People are extremely worried, disappointed, desperate, as much of the producers for three years have been waiting for the money for the tobacco they have been bought out. They do not see protection and support from the state, respectively from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. With the entry into the production of American varieties of tobacco and tobacco, the realization of distribution in Bulgaria increases and reaches an area of 1 million acres. In addition, the number of processing plants as well as their capacity is increasing. Thus, in the late 1980s Bulgaria was first in the production and export of tobacco products per capita. Bulgaria was famous in the world for producing high quality Oriental tobacco. Unfortunately, today the production is heavily reduced and in the Agrarian report for 2017 it is recorded that the production of tobacco for 2016 is 15 211 tonnes, which is 35.2% less than 2015. This decrease in production has led to the production of 10 thousand. hectares, notice, before 1989. 1 million, today 100 thousand. Dekara and the average yield of 13% to 1.53 tonnes per hectare. In this regard, our question to you, Minister, is: how many registered tobacco producers in the country and the contracts for the purchase of tobacco for 2017 and 2018? Are the amounts due for actual tobacco transferred? What are the measures taken by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to support the sector in the realization of production? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u71	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, Mr. Georgiev, tobacco producers who have concluded a contract for the production and sale of tobacco are entered annually by 31 March in the Public Register of the Ministry. The Minister has the right to extend this period to two months. In 2016, registered tobacco producers were 6110, for 2017 were 3884, again 6755 in 2018. According to the 2017 Register, 4265 contracts were concluded on area 51 thousand, round them, 52 thousand acres, and quantities of tobacco For 2018, 7269 contracts were concluded, on an area of 60 thousand acres and applied for tobacco 11 500 tonnes. For 2018 and for 2017, that was your question, we have no information about unpaid tobacco, we have for 2016. The importance of tobacco production for the development of certain regions in the country is multispective, social economic, demographic and ecological. Tobacco producers are located in the most disadvantaged areas and areas, especially those of Oriental tobacco, difficult to use to grow alternative crops. These are the reasons why Bulgaria applies transitional national aid to tobacco, which is a continuation of the scheme for national payments in the period 2015 - 2020. The aid is aimed at supporting the incomes of tobacco producers and does not stimulate production. Cross-border national aid enables farmers who in the past relied mainly on income from tobacco production to focus on other agricultural sectors that do not always provide the same income in specific areas. In 2018, funds were also paid to support the sector of 84 million. BGN, of nearly 42 thousand beneficiaries of the variety groups "Basmi" and "Burley" and "Virginia" and "Kabakulak." You know the transitional national aid scheme. It started in 2015 with a budget of over 100 million, with a 5% annual reduction that is standard for all transitional national aids. It is they who are on such a reference basis so that those who wish to make diversification in production can do so. By letter to the European Commission on Agriculture and so on, and in the talks with Commissioner Hogan, we made it clear that we want tobacco assistance to remain in the new transitional period as well. A brief commentary for 2016. There are unpaid tobacco only and only one Greek company that had an enterprise here According to different data from 2016 there are outstanding, according to our data it is 2 million. 400,000. BGN, according to the tobacco producers we have met, including associations, are close to 3 million. Of these, Mihaylidis....has a mission of about 1 million....and is with Bulgartabac....to pay off certain tobacco producers. Of course, it's the right of the Bulgartabac. The company is currently licensed as it has ceased to operate and is in insolvency proceedings. The communication we have made in the context of the proceedings is that each of them must state its claims as a creditor in the proceedings. You know that there is no direct way for the state to pay for this relationship. There was a case like this with Isperih BT, if I'm not mistaken since 2011. I was answering Mr. Sabanov's parliamentary question. Similarly, nearly 3 million were not paid out there. lv. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u73	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Bachvarova, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u74	Thank you. Dear Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen ministers! From the private issue that has been put to us in Satovcha, the outstanding debts of companies that have purchased tobacco, perhaps indeed the conversation about tobacco production and tobacco policy should continue, given that Bulgaria, during the period of accession to the European Union, has so far very sharply changed its regulatory mechanisms. You are fully aware by 2009 what was the regulation system of this sector. He is also now special in terms of having a Law governing public relations. After 2009 and with a change in the Law, we made it possible for companies to emerge to generate obligations to those who bought tobacco and in no form to be able to solve these people's problems. Agree that if a large tobacco producer has not been paid the debts, he may turn to the court, he may take other measures, but this is a question of, for example, in Satovcha, of 400 households. The recommendation that these 400 households must file cases in order to be able to obtain their dues is generally a very difficult task for them and creates serious problems for them. You say, "Let's pay premiums." In this context, they do not solve the issue of people because they are not paid actual production and income. They have losses they can't cover in any form. On the general question that I would like to ask: do you consider that at this stage these regulations with the registration that lasts one or two months, contracts and registration are reliable enough to ensure not only the purchase of all the tobacco that Bulgaria produces, but also to guarantee the payment of this tobacco? And that the state has provided them with the benefits, it is a positive step, it has been applied for a long time and I believe that it should continue in the future. It depends on how we put the next programming period in the European Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Bachvarova. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u76	The subject is very deep for a short answer. If we leave at close to 100,000. the tons of cigarettes that were produced and exported mainly by SIV to Russia, to the entire USSR, at the moment this is not the case. As you know, at the time, I was also very much in the management of the Bulgartabac and I know very well how we refinanced from one company to another, so that I could, for example,...............................................................................................I have been paid...................................................................................................................................... Then there was a financial instrument that could be made. At the moment we have regulation, the minimum buying-in prices with the latest amendments to the Law have remained registration. We currently have regulation for the registration of contracts and, let's say, the regime of use for tobacco processors that must meet technological requirements. Yes, there are no bank guarantees at stake to guarantee payment. You know we can't put 100% bank guarantee on potential contracts on our own. That would make the process even more difficult. Either way, we're in some kind of market relationship. Of course, the support that is currently going on, as we know, for tobacco producers, it is going elsewhere. And what we need to do with the new programming period, to stay, is to make a mechanism for real producers... It will be very difficult to have transitional, third transitional national aid. That is why we are currently considering the way in which the small, small, oriental tobacco should be helped. We're in the same market. Yes, yesterday I was condemned in some way. I do not want to comment that it was communist my approach to having conversations with the retail chains. I would like to assure you that the discussions with the retail chains are very relevant, especially in the context of the Bulgarian products to be priority and to be sold. I'm talking about groceries. We're going to summarize the information we're currently gathering. Food products, more than 50%, in the different chains are different percentage, are Bulgarian. Yeah, there's seasonality of fruit, there's vegetables. One conversation about how one price or another would be calculated, or gain, yes, it is a conversation. It's not with any agreement. The good news is that we have good cooperation and interaction. We're talking about cooperation and interaction here! It's a very deep subject. Can't guarantee every single thing, because both the manufacturer of tomatoes that are not paid or the producer of other fruits or vegetables that hasn't received their money, we are re-entering some guarantee of redemption and payment with which the state will enter this mechanism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u77	Thank you, dear Minister. I think you might consider some methods of guaranteeing all kinds of buyers, and it's not that complicated. We can think of some measures. We are going to the last question to you from the National Representative Kristian Ivanov Vigenin about false, inadequate and misleading information sent by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to the World Organisation for Animal Health. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u78	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On 13 September 2018, a Report was sent to the World Organisation for Animal Health by Mr. Damian Iliev. Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, which provided new information on the development of the small ruminants plague situation in the municipality of Bolyarovo. This report, which was immediately uploaded to the organisation's website and was accordingly used by all member states and interested structures, noted that the herd, in which on 18 July 2018, the National Reference Laboratory confirmed the presence of the virus in one of the samples, was eradicated and buried, specifying that it was 203 sheep in Bolyarovo, in particular this is Ana Petrova's flock, which became known throughout the country. This information is therefore incorrect, since no measures have been taken on the herd on 13 September 2018 and no cases of disease or death have been reported for the entire period from 18 July to 13 September 2018, when the report has been sent and published. In this regard, I would like to ask you: how do you explain the sending of such false and misleading information from the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to a key partner of Bulgaria in the fight against infectious animal diseases; what action will you take personally or recommend to the Prime Minister to take on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and its head after another case of inadequate action in relation to small ruminants plague; how will you personally take responsibility for the failures in a sector that you directly monitor as a minister? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u79	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u80	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Vigenin! After receiving your question on 19 September 2018, we consulted the World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE), to which the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency sent routine information and follow-up reports on the epidemiological situation in the country regarding the disease of small ruminants and found... [[Noise and lines.]] Yes, of course, we're talking about the moment. The data exported coincides with the real situation, namely: there are no animals concerned...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Restrictive measures have been taken within the three and ten-mile area around a farm, carrying out disinfection around the establishment, guarding the establishment, monitoring the movement of animals in the area, surveillance and sampling in the 20km area. All measures have been taken in accordance with Directive 92/19 of the European Union. With regard to the data that you mentioned, yes, the initial report does not correspond to the real situation. What we have found in addition to that, I will assign the Inspector to check precisely officials who have not made the report correct in the OIE information system. With regard to your finding of failure on my part, I am not solidarity with your opinion, so I will not comment on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u81	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Vigenin, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u82	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, I'll start backwards. I have not said that your failure is personal, but it is a failure in the sector that you observe and ultimately you bear political responsibility. The situation with other topics on which you will receive more questions from me, but specifically in this case is really unpleasant because this information would not have been corrected if we had not submitted information. I must say that your representatives on 18 September 2018 in Yambol, when there was a meeting of the Headquarters, seemed rather inadequate, receiving information that an official body of Bulgaria had submitted false information. What is even more interesting is that after the herd was declared destroyed to the whole world on 13 September 2018, deaths began the next day. But let's just say this is just another coincidence, for the other coincidences you'll be getting further questions from me in the coming weeks. I think it is not normal that such information is clearly pre-prepared that the flock is dead, to reach our partners in this way. For six days, this information was officially on the website of the International Organization?! You understand that we are already talking about a breach of trust in the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency itself in front of our partners, because I do not know in which way and precisely the replacement of the reports has taken place, but the facts are facts. I, of course, keep copies of the original report, which describes in detail how the herd was destroyed, what was done and so on. I think it is appropriate to take more serious measures with regard to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, because such information and the whole series of actions related to the pest of small ruminants have completely and irreversibly violated the trust in the Agency for the measures it fights against animal diseases in Bulgaria. Separately, I'm going to ask you on the other issues related to the fence against African swine fever and some other things that show that this agency doesn't know what it's doing but wants citizens to believe it. They will not trust her, and trust in her will not be restored until Damian Iliev is the CEO, and I would say, and while you are the Minister of Agriculture and you refuse to take any measures with regard to this Agency. I will not thank you for your answer, because it does not contain any commitments on your part, except that the Inspectorate will check. Maybe some associate will burn or at least have to take responsibility, but still the wrong report went there with Damian Iliev's signature. And if anyone is responsible, it's him and you personally. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u83	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Mr. Minister, you have the right to the back of your head.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u84	Thank you. I'll be very brief. With regard to the credibility of the Agency, and from the point of view of international institutions, the fact that one or another tension is being created here, yes, the Agency has something to improve and I believe that in recent months this is beginning to feel. Two weeks ago, I think it was Thursday and Friday, a conference with the OIE, the FAO and the European Commission took place in Brussels. As far as I know, you were also present at this conference. You know very well what the Agency's assessments of the actions of both African swine fever for the first outbreak and the preventional actions were, and regarding the issue of small bovine plague, absolutely positive! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u85	Thank you, dear Minister. The questions to you are over. We are going to ask the MPs Tasco Mihailov Ermenkov and Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev about the policy of the Ministry of Energy on transposition of European legislation. The Minister of Energy Mrs. Petkova answers. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! In recent months, all legislative initiatives of the Ministry of Energy have been linked to clear violations of European Union law established in the appropriate order by the European Commission. In practice, the National Assembly becomes a body which legitimizes the incompetent actions of the executive, without even explaining the reasons for these violations to continue to happen. Before the Bulgarian public, the Ministry of Energy maintains the understanding of the Third Liberalisation Package of the European Union and that it is successfully transposed into national legislation. This is not the case, and the Ministry itself recognises it in the motives of the last amendment to the Energy Act proposed by the Council of Ministers, saying: "The proposals for amendment and supplement of the Energy Act are made in order to fully and accurately transpose the national legislation into the requirements of the relevant Directive of the European Parliament on the Common Rules on the Internal Market in Electricity and the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on the Common Rules on the Internal Market in Natural Gas, the so-called Gazova Directive. The Ministry of Energy states in the reasons of the same bill that the reasons for the new amendments, note, are:................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In practice, the European Commission has found a breach and a lack of transposition of the Third Liberalisation Package into the Bulgarian legislation. The Ministry of Energy has received a notification from the European Commission and none of this has been presented to the National Assembly. It simply wants to vote on some texts in the Energy Act, which practically legitimize the lack of administrative capacity in this Ministry, which we have been informing about for a long time. These proposals relating to the full separation of part of network operators' activities have long been put to the attention of the Ministry of Energy by a number of experts related to liberalisation of the electricity and gas market. Unfortunately, what happened with regard to the Third Liberalisation Package is not an isolated case of infringement of European Union law by the Ministry of Energy, but the opposite. For example, the reasons of the Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Renewable Energy Act, submitted again by the Council of Ministers and prepared by the Ministry of Energy, state: The draft of the Law for amendment and supplement of the Renewable Energy Act was developed for the purpose of transposition of the requirements of art. 2 of the Directive amending Directive 97/70/EC on the quality of petrol and diesel fuels and amending the Directive on the promotion of the use of renewable energy. The deadline for transposition of the Directive is September 10, 2017. On September 23, 2017, the European Commission launched a infringement procedure against Bulgaria for its non-transposing within the deadline. If we translate what is written in plain language, it means: the Ministry of Energy has not only made it necessary to propose a change in legislation more than a year ago, but has done nothing for a year in the penal procedure launched against the country. This is not simply irresponsible, it is a direct failure to comply with the powers of the Minister of Energy, for which the relevant political and other responsibility should be suffered. In this regard, Madam Minister, is our asking: what is the policy of the Ministry of the transposition of European energy legislation and notification to the European Commission of action taken in this regard?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u87	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u88	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Ermenkov, Mr. Boychev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The pathos with which Mr. Ermenkov asked his question is truly impressive. I am pleased that, after all, a subject related to both State aid and the transposition of the European directives has aroused such a great interest in your person. With regard to the policy of the Ministry of Energy, first of all, note that the adoption of legislation introducing the requirements of EU acts in national law is regulated by Decree of the Council of Ministers No 85 of 17 April 2007, for coordination on European Union matters and the policy of the Ministry of Energy on transposition of European legislation is fully in line with the requirements of this decree. For the period from 1 January 2007 to 21 September to today, the Ministry of Energy, respectively its predecessors from the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism, the Ministry of Economy and Energy, has taken action to adopt transposition acts into national law to the requirements of 31 directives and to notify them to the European Commission. Detailed information on all these transpositions made to Directives, respectively notifications from 2007 to now, Mr. Ermenkov, I will present to you [[shows references]] and there you will see when which directive has been notified accordingly, when it has been adopted, what are the deadlines. Here is all this information for which you ask your question and your question. Regarding your question concerning the Minister's commitments, because in the inquiry you also pointed out this reason, which is contained in art. 4, para. 2, p. 14 of the Energy Act, which was adopted on 8 May this year. Of course, an essential part of the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria, as a Member State of the European Union, is related to the fulfilment of the obligations under art. 108 § 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in conjunction with art. Paragraph 1 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to inform or notify the European Commission of any plans to grant or alter State aid by a Member State or through the resources of a Member State. According to sentence 3 of art. 108, § 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union "The Member State concerned cannot initiate the application of the proposed measures until the European Commission has given a final decision confirming the compatibility and/or authorising the granting of State aid. For the period from 1 January 2007 to 11 August 2015, by the Ministry of Energy, respectively its predecessors, the economy, energy and tourism, the Ministry of Economy and Energy, there has been no notification of the implemented State aid schemes in the sector, respectively there are no decisions of the European Commission on their compatibility or lack of them with the internal market. For the period from 12 August 2015 to 21 September 2018, i.e. until today, in compliance with the requirements of art. 108, § 3 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Law on State aid by the Ministry of Energy, the following notifications have been made to State aid schemes and therefore received decisions of the European Commission as follows: - a notification was sent to the European Commission by the Ministry of Energy on 12 August 2015 of a scheme of aid to reduce the burden on the industry relating to the allocation of costs arising from the obligations for the purchase of electricity produced from renewable energy sources. The same scheme was approved by decision of the European Commission of 4 August 2016. The decision is C-2016-52-04; - on 9 March 2016 from the Ministry of Energy to the European Commission a notification of a scheme for support for the production of energy from renewable sources in Bulgaria was sent to the European Commission. It was approved by Decision of the European Commission of 4 August 2016. The scheme is C-2016-52-05; - on 26 April 2016 by letter from the Ministry of Energy was sent information to the Fund of Electricity Security for an assessment carried out in accordance with art. 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and on the basis of instructions from the Minister of Finance concerning amendments adopted to the Energy Act relating to the establishment of the Energy Security Fund, as a measure for the overall financial stabilisation of the sector. An assessment has been carried out under European legislation, on the basis of which it is clear that the same mechanism does not constitute State aid within the meaning of art. 107 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union; - on 29 September 2016 from the Ministry of Energy to the European Commission was sent a notification of a scheme for financial insurance of the payment by the National Electricity Company of amounts awarded in the arbitration case in relation to the NPP of Belene. In this regard, a special law has also been adopted because it constitutes the provision of state resources, respectively the Ministry of Energy, as provided for by the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and in the implementation of the State aid law. By letter dated 28 November 2016. By letter of 29 and we have notified the European Commission, by letter of 28 November 2016, the European Commission informed us that the granting of funds under this order under this law does not constitute State aid; - a notification was sent by the Ministry of Energy to the European Commission on 6 July 2018 of those introduced by the Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act, in force from 8 May 2018, State aid schemes as follows: the four are schemes, one of them is linked to high-efficiency cogeneration with four megawatts and more than four megawatts. The others have a power below four megawatts, similar schemes are for producers of renewable energy sources. A decision of the European Commission is expected with regard to these aids. You know that we have been informed by the European Commission through the Ministry of Finance that, since there is no postponement clause and the measure has actually been introduced, the European Commission at this stage considers this aid unlawful, but, of course, from now on, we are in continuous communication with the European Commission. I hope that what we have done in 2016 as a notification of renewable energy sources will enable the European Commission to make sure that what we are doing now with these changes to the Energy Act is virtually not new state aid, but we will simply re-notify the scheme, so we expect a solution on these schemes. On 4 May 2018, a notification was sent by the Ministry of Energy to the European Commission of a scheme for the provision of funds for the construction of the project Intersystem gas connection Greece "Bulgaria," with which the European Commission is known for the following support measures in the implementation of the project: - We notify the European Commission of the use of a State guarantee when negotiating loan financing of up to 215 million. BGN approved by the State Budget Act for 2018; - provision of grants from the European Structural Investment Funds for Bulgaria under Operational Programme "Innovation and competitiveness" and grant of 39 million. EUR; and - notification of the conclusion of an intergovernmental agreement on tax treatment of the project Intersystem gas connection Greece This is, dear Mr. Ermenkov, dear Mr. Boychev, the information I can provide to you. And this is the reference I can give you. [[Passing the references.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u89	I'll take it back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u90	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Dear gentlemen Boychev and Ermenkov, you are entitled to up to two supplementary questions within a total of up to two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I am moving on to two supplementary questions based on our inquiry and the information you have provided. You know that on 26 April changes were adopted in the Energy Act and they were officially published in the Official Journal of the State on 8 May 2018. There, in § 69, the following is said and required: the Minister of Energy to notify by 30 June 2018 the State aid schemes in the field of energy. You're wrong about what you're saying, there's no delay veto. At the moment when the debate was in the Chamber, in committees on this bill and at first reading, the entry into force of the Law was envisaged at the second reading. And we have enabled the Ministry of Energy by June 30th to request the corresponding notification from the European Commission. And you know very well and said it in your reply that any measure by a Member State which provides for this type of State aid should be notified in advance before its application. From the information you have given to the National Assembly, it becomes clear that the deadline for notification has not been met. And right now, our country, based on the response from the European Commission on 24 July, is threatened by another criminal procedure. Madam Minister, this was one of the reasons why we asked Mr. Ermenkov about the entire policy of your Ministry. The two supplementary questions to you are the following: for what reason was the notification of the latest changes to the Energy Act of 26 April 2018, which explicitly introduced such a postponement mechanism for its implementation? Who will ultimately be responsible for the delay and possible obstruction of payments that must result under this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u92	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Madam Minister, please come in for an answer to the supplementary questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Boychev, dear Mr. Ermenkov, let us bring some clarity to the subject. Notification to the European Commission means to notify the European Commission that we have a plan to introduce a certain measure of State aid, not to introduce the measure, to start acting and then to notify the European Commission. This is what the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union says, and I will only allow myself to read one text from the European Commission's letter, which I have also sent to you, by the way. In its letter, the Commission notes that: The legal basis for the measure was adopted in May 2018 prior to the notification to the European Commission, not providing for a postponement clause, I am talking about the Law, therefore the aid measure is unlawful, so let us be correct. I understand what you're trying to tell me. First of all, just to inform you that the information about this notification is not generated in the Ministry of Energy. You know who sets the preferential prices. You know who defines this entire support mechanism and who has always defined it. Accordingly, we have requested information from the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. This information was provided to us at the end of June. Immediately afterwards, we have summarized it and provided it to the Ministry of Finance because there is a special system on the basis of which this aid is notified and through the Ministry of Finance this State aid is notified to the European Commission. So hopefully, with joint efforts, we will be able to convince the European Commission that the notification we made in 2016, before, of course, there are any such orders in the Law that were adopted in May this year, we have made this notification, the European Commission approved it. On the basis of this approved notification, it was also possible to provide State aid to businesses with regard to the costs related to renewable energy sources and to the energy bought out on this basis. That's the whole truth and all the information. As regards the administrative capacity of the Ministry of Energy, I think you remember that the Ministry of Energy was established in November 2014 with the relevant decision of the Council of Ministers and it forms part of all its experts and employees represent part of the Ministry of Economy, Energy and Tourism or all its transformations. This is a capacity that has been built-in not since yesterday and now from the reference that I have provided to you in relation to State aid, you will see from when, in fact, those people that you believe have no capacity, but I do not agree with this, carry out all these actions relating to the transposition of European legislation and its notification to the European Commission. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u94	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Ermenkov, you have the right to express your attitude to the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u95	I'll try to fit in. Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We do not believe that the Ministry does not have the capacity to show it in its documents, conclusions and opinions, on the information you are sending, including the reasons you indicate for changing the relevant laws. It says there that mistakes have been made, it says that the necessary actions have not been taken, which is proof of lack of capacity, which is a poor assessment of work. Not us, the European Commission! The other thing that I want to tell you is that the Law we are talking about and we want to try to convince that there is no postponement clause has been started to be discussed since February and you knew very well the texts of February did not need to be waited until the end to start notification, but this is a separate job. It is in this regard that I cannot be pleased with your answer, because you have obviously not understood the essence of the raised problem. And in order not to look at this question as a nagging without a specific benefit, and in order for the executive power to be responsible in future cases of such violations, we, with colleagues in the parliamentary group, will discuss and propose to colleagues from other parliamentary groups to make some changes to the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, where we will require, apart from a preliminary assessment of the impact, also to require an assessment of compliance in the law of the European Union, or to refer to another type of coordination with a European Union body in the case of a criminal procedure initiated, that is to say, additional documents we will want to be informed about what we are doing. I see that you are trying to transfer us with responsibility for the adoption of the last legislative amendments and that is why we will try to make another amendment to the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, which we will propose for discussion, namely to add to art. 30, para. 2 that a representative of the ministry concerned is required to attend the Commission's meeting when dealing with matters relating to the application of European Union law by providing an opinion on the correct application of European Union law in order that there may be no later justifications. And because of the cases of adoption of regulations contrary to the requirement of art. 108 of the Treaty establishing and the Functioning of the European Union and the Council Regulation which are becoming more frequent, and also because of the lack of, as I have already said, not by us, but by the findings of the European Commission, of administrative capacity, we will also propose an amendment to the Law on Legislative Acts, writing that, in the event of State aid, the regulation must contain a provision for failure to take action before notification, the approval of the aid by the European Commission, so that there are no problems from now on. In view of the latest case already registered as a breach by the European Commission, we propose that the Ministry of Energy urgently propose a bill adopting a provision for failure to take action before notification and approval of the aid by the European Commission and we hope that you will take these actions, because otherwise we will have to challenge debates in the National Assembly on the way legislation is transposed and, naturally, we will seek the relevant political responsibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u96	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Thank you, Madam Minister, for participating in this meeting. We move on to questions addressed by MPs to Mr. Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. The first question is from the National Representative Pencho Plamenov Milkov on the construction of sewerage in the districts "Middle tower" and "Dolapite" of the town of Ruse. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues! Once again, I ask the question of the districts of Ruse "Middle tower" and "The Dollars" because for many years the inhabitants of the two districts expect the construction of the sewers, with which they have a quality of life equal to that of the other inhabitants of the city. After the sewerage was not implemented in the previous programming period, when the project did not receive funding, it became known to date by the minister's reply and a statement by the manager of the Water and Water. In this regard, in relation to the numerous signals to me by citizens and the discontent that is growing and already escalating, I ask you to answer the questions: at what stage is the realization of this project, are they selected performers and who are they, when are they expected the real implementation of their work on the Sewers of the Middle Tower and the Dollars to begin, and most importantly for everyone when are the construction and installation works expected to end and people to own a normal sewerage? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u98	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u99	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milkov, in answer to your question, I would like to give you the following information. During this programming period 2014 For the preparation of regional pre-investment studies, the managing authority signed a grant agreement with the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works on 10 February 2016. In March 2016, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works concluded contracts with contractors to prepare regional pre-investment studies in 14 consolidated areas served by one water operator. These 14 regions are: Burgas, Varna, Vidin, Vratsa, Dobrich, Kardzhali, Pernik, Plovdiv, here comes Ruse, who specifically interests you, Silistra, Sliven, Stara Zagora, Shumen and Yambol. For the implementation of the investment projects included in the regional pre-investment studies, on July 20, this year, i.e. two months ago, the managing authority announced a procedure by direct granting of a grant financial assistance That is, the first part of the question yes, they are eligible and will receive funding. The main activities to be supported under the procedure are related to construction, rehabilitation, reconstruction of sewerage and plumbing systems, waste water treatment and drinking water treatment facilities, including sludge treatment facilities and to ensuring stricter treatment of municipal waste water components. To date, the project proposal has not been submitted as a eligible candidate for the process for construction of a water infrastructure. We haven't been filed yet! The deadline for submitting these proposals is 23 April 2019, which means they still have about six or seven months. In relation to compliance with State aid law, the contracting authority of public procurement for the implementation of infrastructure activities is the water operators. The Ministry of Environment and Water does not have any information on whether the Water and Water Department has already conducted public contracts for selection of contractors and when the implementation of the activities of the districts' sewers is expected to begin. The period for which you are asking, by which these procedures and real construction actions may be carried out, shall be no later than 31 December 2023, that shall also be the deadline by which expenditure will be accepted as eligible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Milkov, you're entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u101	Dear Minister, given that the Ministry does not have information from the operator of the water supply service, although it provides funds, whether it has made procedures for the spending of these funds and it was not possible in its reply to me to provide this information, I will supply it directly from the water supply service, at what stage it is and whether procedures have been conducted, but the fact that no project proposal has been submitted, and the deadline is until April, gives some answer. I would just like to say that the situation of these people - Russians living in the neighborhoods - the Middle Tower and the Dollars - has been unbearable and humiliating for so many years, because as a result of this inaction, people's houses have been bursting and even though they live in the most European city, they use septic pits, which to me is inexplicable and unacceptable. The system of sewerage in our city is built by the state, with our resources, at 94% are connected citizens with sewerage and in the realization of this project to the conditions it is to be connected only 3% of those living in the city. That is, we are waiting on European projects, on applications, on public procurement by 2023 must wait for people, because a country that has made 94% of the sewerage for the next 3 and for the citizens of these two neighborhoods, and explains again that they must wait for deadlines, projects, operational programmes, which for me is already unacceptable, and I think they should be. Thank you for your information. It is, I suppose, useful from the point of view of the fact that the project is still under way, the application period has not expired, but more specific data I will continue to look for from the Water and Water Department Ruse. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u102	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Dear Minister, will you take advantage of the right to answer? No. We're going to the next question for you. He is from the National Representative Georgi Georgiev Mihaylov, on air cleanliness in the Republic of Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! On 11 September 2018, the European Court of Auditors published a report, according to the data from which Bulgarian citizens breathe the most polluted air within the European Union. Particularly disturbing is the state of the air in Sofia and the report directly noted that no major changes to this fact have been achieved. Close 2009 The same report also noted the known link between the breathing of contaminated air and the reduction of the average life expectancy, which according to the European Union Citizens Report is about nine months and for Bulgaria is three times higher about two and a half years. My specific question to you in the area of the fact that it has already been a long time since a round table, which we held in Parliament almost a year ago, is: what are the specific measures that you have taken to change this state. Moreover, an unholy fact came out in the public domain that the station, which measures air pollution in the center of Sofia Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u104	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u105	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mihailov, the European Court of Auditors' report reviews the climate air quality policy at European level, and in particular the Atmospheric Air Quality Directive. Recommendations are made for more effective action by the European Commission to update the directive on prioritization and inclusion of the issue of air quality in other sectoral policies of the European Union, as well as to improve public awareness. Achieving weather quality standards is a challenge for almost all countries in the European Union. This is why the European Court of Auditors has audited the implementation of these policies. Improving the quality of atmospheric air is a priority of the government and the Management Programme 2017 - 2021, as well as the main priority of the Ministry of Environment and Water, and it was not by chance a major topic during the Bulgarian Presidency. Air pollution is a serious not only environmental but also a social problem that poses numerous challenges in terms of governance. At the same time, it is directly related to the quality of life and the health of the population. In order to integrate the policies on the protection of ambient air in other sectoral policies, a Coordination Council for the protection of air cleanness, including representatives at the management level of all competent institutions, has been established. As a result of the measures taken by the institutions at national and local level, by industrial enterprises, in recent years there has been a sustainable trend for reducing air pollution with fine particulate matter, which is a major problem in both Sofia and most major cities, but the country has not yet achieved the requirements laid down in the legislation. This is one of the reasons for the assessments that this Report also gives. In this regard, the Ministry has taken a number of measures which I will sum up briefly. First, a law was drawn up, legislative amendments to the Law on Air Cleanliness aimed at limiting the use of low-quality coal and briquettes for domestic heating. Legislative changes have been made to improve the quality and effectiveness of periodic technical examinations, as much of the cars have malfunctioning exhaust systems, which has a negative effect on the quality of the air. Changes in the Law on Local Taxes and Fees are in progress, which aim to stimulate the use of cars that lead to lower levels of pollution. The introduction of an environmental component is proposed when determining the vehicle tax, according to which cars with higher euro standard will be charged with smaller tax burdens. In 2020, the introduction of the requirements of Regulation 2015/1185 for household solid fuel heaters is envisaged in order to help replace those appliances with those with lower emissions of harmful substances. Additional restrictions are introduced for the purchase of catalysts from motor vehicles at waste acceptance points by applying strict controls and sanctions. A draft of the National Atmospheric Air Quality Programme was developed, which is to be agreed and adopted by the Council of Ministers. A financial resource of 115 million is provided. lv. under Operational Programme "Environment" 2014 " 2020" for municipalities with impaired quality of air. Currently 11 municipalities have been financed to develop or update municipal programmes and there will be a grant under this procedure to 12 other municipalities. Investment measures aimed at the main source of pollution will also be financed with resources. The announcement of this procedure is forthcoming and is scheduled for the third or fourth quarter of 2018 under the Indicative Work Programme of Operational Programme. The Ministry of Environment and Water consistently has a policy to improve air quality. A partnership of all institutions is needed to achieve the desired result, and I would like to stress here that the main responsibility lies with the local authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mr. Mikhailov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I have listened carefully to the listed measures you have read, which, unfortunately for me, are mostly directed in the future. I have to share as a specialist in the field of medicine that the main reason for air pollution in the major centers in Bulgaria, such as Sofia, which was part of my question, are mostly anthropogenic. They're known for who they are. This is sulphur dioxide, these are the particulates that you mentioned only as desirable programs that have been funded but have not yet been implemented. This is the ozone that is directly dependent on the relationship of the sun and the gases emitted by the vehicles, which increase its concentration and sharply change the quality of breathed air from the inhabitants of the region, region or city concerned. My question to you specifically as an additional one is: do you have any interaction with Sofia Municipality, where they live according to non-official data, the official ones are lower, but the unofficial ones seem to be more faithful about 25 and more than 25% of the state population? We are witnessing many good wishes in the field of air purification, but also very disturbing facts in the organization of car traffic in Sofia, and in many problems related to construction, which, according to some opinions of leading specialists in the field of architecture, has changed the rose of winds in the city of Sofia and has led to further complicating the climate and air situation above the city city. Do you have any specific program of interaction because you completed your presentation with the fact that, above all, these decisions and their implementation depend on the local authorities? Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u108	Thank you, Mr. Mikhailov. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u109	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mikhailov, you are absolutely right. The main factors that are viewed for air pollution are sulphur oxides and oxides by modern, nitrogen oxides, ozone, fine dust particles. The only problem that exists in Bulgaria and where there is an excess, unlike many other Western European cities, is with fine dust particles. We don't have excess ozone. We do not have excess sulphur dioxides in the middle of the day or in the middle of the year. That's where the standards are covered. From this point of view, our main problem is related to fine dust particles. The two main sources are domestic heating, you're right, anthropogenic activity and road transport. For different cities, the degree of influence of these two major factors is different, so we finance, as I mentioned, 11 cities. It is yet 12 more to update or make air quality programmes in order to be able to tell how they should be addressed through investment measures that we are also able in the stated amount of 115 million. lv. to finance, which is extremely insufficient, I must say, but it is a start. As far as Sofia Municipality is concerned, it, like all other municipalities, should have its programme. It has its air quality programme and takes action. What we can help and what we help, including upcoming round tables and a debate on a bill that we have already tabled within the National Assembly, from the point of view of one of the main pollutants, namely the burning of textile waste, which will seek its solution. I do not agree that I am speaking only in the future, because one of the main problems that we discussed last year at that time was related to the theft of catalysts from cars. We have introduced a system with which theft of catalysts can now be traced. So if you go to hand over a catalyst at a metal purchase point, you have to have a statement from the owner or that this catalyst is replaced by a new one or that the car is out of use. Otherwise, it's considered stolen. This was one of the very serious problems that could have happened to citizens both in the capital and outside the capital, which currently has the opportunity to be controlled. Those measures shall be taken. They cannot be instantaneous, but I think that for this one year both Sofia Municipality and a number of other municipalities were able to make progress. By the way, I have no information about 2009, but since 2011 the average hours in Sofia Municipality are still above the requirements, but are much less than I have been talking about 2016, from which I have the latest statistics, compared to 2011. That is to say, the average hours are much less, and the averages are getting closer to the standards and in some of the stations are already achieving them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We're moving on to the final question for you. He is from the National Representative Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zhekova concerning the project "Ecological disposal of obsolete pesticides and other plant protection products with expired expiry date" under the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme in the Municipality of Strelcha. Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! The project "Ecological disposal of end-of-life pesticides and other past-life plant protection preparations" under the Bulgarian-Swiss Cooperation Programme started with pre-project studies as early as 2014. It started as a project after this pre-project study in 2015 and covered 216 warehouses throughout the country and will be used 4388 tonnes, unfit for use pesticides. This project is of great public importance and I think it is nice for the Ministry to give an answer, because in October last year, Dear Minister, you gave me an answer that you sent the documents for approval to the partner back then. You announced in April that they will actually start activities under the Project at the latest in May. We are now the end of September and there is still no clarity when the activities will start. Speaking of the public importance for the whole country, I would like to say that the inhabitants of Strelcha municipality, as well as others in the territory of Pazardzhik District, where I am a Member of the National Assembly, are very concerned that the deadline for the implementation of this project is May 2019. In this regard, my question is: when do you plan to actually start the activities, because the profile of the buyer does not make it clear when these procedures will actually start? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u112	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Dear Minister, please come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, the main activities of the project are carried out by means of a public procurement with subject: repackaging, transport, transmission for final disposal and cleaning of warehouses containing persistent organic pollutants, pesticides, hazardous waste, non-hazardous waste and other plant protection products, with a total of six separate positions covering the territory of the whole country. In particular, the municipality of Strelcha referred to by you falls under heading No 4. The implementation of the project has already started by concluding contracts for the implementation of lots Nos 2 and 3. These two positions are already in effect. The separate position No 2 covers the disposal of the warehouses of the municipalities of Veliko Tarnovo and Gabrovo, and the separate position No 3 "of the territories of Vidin, Vratsa, Montana, Pleven and Lovech." The contracts under the other lots covering the remaining territory of the country are intended to be concluded by the end of October 2018, depending on the development of procedures for appeal of public procurement. You're quite right, I assumed we'd have contracts in the spring, but the appeals still continue. This is something that is beyond the possibility of being foreseen, and I hope that by October we will be able to conclude those remaining six, but that still depends on the appeal procedure. The reasons for the delay of these activities are in fact mainly in this, although so far all the decisions of the competent authorities are in favour of the contracting entity, i.e. the Environmental Management Organisation, which proves that the quality of the documentation and the management of the project are at the level necessary. On the part of all municipalities there are signed declarations of their consent to include the warehouses located in their territory, in the Project, and that the quantities of pesticides in them correspond to those determined in the course of the feasibility study. As soon as we conclude contracts on the other lots, municipalities will be notified of the launch of the project activities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mrs. Klisurska, you are entitled to a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, from the last answer you gave me, I understand that the main reason for the delay is public procurement appeals. From what I saw last year on the website of the Public Procurement Agency, I don't understand why so late started these procedures, since we know that appeal procedures aren't always within the deadlines we plan? The effectiveness and work of the Ministry, which you represent, are ultimately linked to compliance with any closer deadlines and not to pursue the deadline. I'm expressing a great deal of concern. I very much hope that what you have declared by the end of October will be signed contracts on the other lots, but as you know, activities related to the renovation of the relevant premises are also included in the project, not only related to their restraint. We are entering a winter period in which the actual construction events that will be carried out will, in my opinion, potentially not be effective, so I hope you will hurry. I hope in the Ministry, when there is such a project, or when it provides for such activities, public procurement will start in a timely manner, because 2014 is too far away. We are currently the end of 2018, and the project ends May 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u116	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u117	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, you are completely entitled to the unpredictable of appeals is a serious problem in front of all public procurement. We have considerably heavier cases with more than two years of residence in judicial phases. The deadline is December next year, so we still have enough time. There are 15 months in which they can be fulfilled. Probably could have gotten better, I agree with that thing, but that's the best I can say right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-21.u118	Thank you, dear Minister. Honourable Members, with this today's agenda is exhausted. I hope you will appreciate the tolerance I have shown to all those involved in today's parliamentary control. The next meeting will begin at 9.00, Wednesday, 26 September 2018. That's why I'm closing today's session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
