ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, first item of the day, is: Chosen by the Court of Justice in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria of the QUOTA of People's Ration. The selection procedure is in accordance with the Rules adopted by decision of the National Assembly of 12 September 2018. Mr. Kirilov, if you'd like to introduce us to the Report, then I'll read the steps we need to follow for the election of a judge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I request a procedure for the admission of the candidate to judge at the Constitutional Court Mr. Krasimir Vlahov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 171 MPs: for 167, against none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Vlahov to the room. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u4	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on the hearing of the candidate for judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria At its meeting held on 3 October 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs held a hearing of the candidates admitted as Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, in accordance with Section V of the National Assembly's Decision adopting Rules of Procedure on the terms and conditions for proposing candidates, the presentation and public disclosure of documents, the hearing of candidates and the election of a Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria from the quota of the National Assembly, hereinafter rules of procedure adopted on 12 September 2018. At a previous meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs on 28 September 2018, a verification was carried out on the basis of Section IV of the Rules of Procedure, which found that the proposed candidate had submitted all the necessary documents under Section I, i.e. 2. [[Noise in the room.]] Answers have been received by the Directorate General for Civil Registration and Administrative Service to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, as well as by the Commission for the disclosure of documents and for the declaration of belonging of Bulgarian citizens to the State Security and the intelligence services of the Bulgarian People's Army. Following the verification of admission of applicants for a hearing and on the basis of Section IV, p. 5, the candidate Mr. Krasimir Krasimirov Vlahov was admitted to the Committee on Legal Affairs. On behalf of the importers, Mr. Krasimir Vlahov's candidacy was presented by Mr. Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that Mr. Vlahov is one of the respected Bulgarian lawyers with over 20 years of court experience and added that his rich professional experience will contribute to improving the work of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria and raising public confidence in this institution as an effective guarantee for the rule of the basic law. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that Judge Vlahov was born on 24 September 1972 in the town of Pleven. He has completed his legal education at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski. His professional career began in 1996 as a junior judge, and in October 1997 he was appointed judge...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u5	Colleagues, please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u6	...at the Sofia District Court. In the period 2001 - 2004 he was Vice-President of the Sofia District Court and since 2004 he was a judge at the Sofia City Court and was later seconded to the Supreme Court of Cassation. In 2008, Mr. Vlahov was elected President of the Sofia District Court and was appointed Vice-President of the Supreme Court of Cassation in 2012. From 20 February 2018 until now, Judge Vlahov holds the office of the Supreme Court of Cassation. In addition to the biography, data on the trainings of Mr. Vlahov in the field of European law,
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u7	Mr. Kirilov, hold on a second. Colleagues, please be quiet. Thank you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u8	...for his teaching activity in civil law and a process at the Law Faculty of Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski and the National Institute of Justice. To the scientific contribution of the applicant in the field of civil law and process were pointed out his publications: Problems of the new Civil Procedure Code and the Code of Civil Procedure. An attached comment. Law enforcement issues. Analysis of the case-law and the help of civil material law candidates for junior judges. Mr. Kirilov emphasized that the candidate has an undisputed reputation, an excellent lawyer and a proven administrative leader and added that Mr. Vlahov is among the best prepared Bulgarian lawyers who can take up the position of the Court of Justice in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. He pointed out that with his proven undisputed professionalism and extensive administrative experience Mr. Vlahov fully meets the requirements for taking up the position of the Court of Justice in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. In addition to his presentation, Mr. Krasimir Vlahov pointed out that raising his candidacy from the quota of the National Assembly is a challenge and a great honor. The proposal is the highest recognition for him as a lawyer and is, at the same time, evidence of respect for the judiciary by the legislature. Mr. Vlahov outlined his concept of the Constitutional Court's seat as he summarized that this highest body is the guarantor and guardian of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, provides a balance between the legislative, executive and judiciary, to which the Constitutional Court is equal. In his exhibition, Judge Vlahov paid special attention to the autonomy of the Constitutional Court in its interpretation activity, in which the court is governed solely by the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Mr. Vlahov highlighted the interpretation activity of the Constitutional Court, which is of fundamental importance and which is aimed at revealing the precise meaning and importance of the constitutional norm or group of provisions, while this activity cannot serve to interfere with the legislative process or to interpret acts of European law. The candidate also presented the practice of the Constitutional Court concerning the integration of the rules of the European Union and the applicability of its acts in the Bulgarian legislation by generalizing that the treaty with the European Union is part of the internal law and its provisions are automatically applied without an explicit act. Mr. Vlahov detailed his view on the individual constitutional complaint by pointing out that the legislator has extended the jurisdiction to refer to the Constitutional Court by giving the Supreme Council of Law and the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria the opportunity to refer to the Constitutional Court by presenting in its presentation the arrangements for this process in Italy, Romania and France. The Committee on Legal Affairs received questions to the candidate: from the Bulgarian Institute for Legal Initiatives Foundation, which the applicant included in his exhibition. Questions to the candidates for a judge at the Constitutional Court put MPs Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov, Christian Mitev and Daniel Kirilov. In response to the questions asked by Mr. Zarkov and Mr. Mitev, Judge Vlahov pointed out that in his interpretation work the Constitutional Court should comply with the public changes and processes which also determine the powers of the Supreme Authority to review its practice. In response to the question asked by Mr. Mitev, Mr. Vlahov pointed out that the constitutional possibility of referral by the Supreme Court of Cassation and by the Supreme Administrative Court is only the subject of the establishment of the unconstitutionality of the norm, which is admitted to cassation and on which the ruling of the Constitutional Court will determine the outcome of the case. In the light of the above, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, without the opposition and 4 votes for the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a draft decision for the election of a judge in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, Annex No 2. To the Report, Annex 1 is the List of the candidate who took part in the hearing Mr. Krasimir Krasimirov Vlahov. Annex 2 to the EEA Agreement shall be Project! DECISION on the election of a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 147, para. Art. 1, 2 and 3, Art. 148, para. 1, t. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 4 of the Constitutional Court Act HAS DECIDED He elected Krasimir Krasimirov Vlahov as judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u9	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I will read to you the rules for the election of judge in the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria: 1. The sitting is broadcast in real time through the website of the National Assembly. The proposed candidates may be present at the meeting by decision of the National Assembly. 2. The Committee on Legal Affairs presents a Report on the hearing which Mr. Kirilov just made. 3. The candidates shall be submitted by an importer of the proposal according to their order as defined in the list of candidates for Judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, prepared in alphabetical order of their own names, in an exhibition within 2 minutes. 4. Debate on the nominations under the Rules of Procedure for the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly shall be held. 5. The vote shall be open and shall be carried out separately for each candidate in accordance with the order set out in the list of candidates. 6. The candidate who received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly shall be considered elected. If several candidates have received more than half of the votes of the present Members of the National Assembly, the candidate who received the most votes is elected. 7. Where none of the candidates receives the necessary votes, a re-vote shall be held in which the two candidates who have received the most votes for................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 8. If none of the candidates receives the necessary votes again, the National Assembly shall adopt a decision to open a new selection procedure. I give the floor to Mr. Kirilov to present the candidate within 2 minutes. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u10	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The report, which I presented to your attention, presented the main biographical data for Judge Vlahov and therefore I will not repeat them. I would say that I would be delighted if you would keep some silence, decency and respect for the Rules of Procedure. However, we present to your attention a worthy candidate of a professional who has realized and worked throughout his entire internship, during his entire period of realization only and entirely in the judiciary system. He worked as a judge, started as a junior judge, held key and heavy positions as the administrative head of courts in Bulgaria. The colleague Vlahov undoubtedly has outstanding legal experience in both the legal doctrine and law enforcement. He earned the authority of a judge who respects the law, who respects the law and applies it strictly in his work. I'm also pleased to present this candidacy. I am pleased that his candidacy as a professional candidate with no political elegance and influence has received very serious support from the other parliamentary groups as well. [[Reply from DPS.]] I thank my colleagues at the DPS for their understanding and the invitation they have given me. Colleagues, I appeal to you for support of this application, including colleagues from the BSP for Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Please come in for a statement. Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Once again, I would like to thank all my colleagues who participated in the discussion and in Mr. Vlahov's hearing. I would like to thank these parliamentary groups who have shown initiative so that the relevant meetings can be made with Mr. Vlahov and hear both his concept and the questions that could be asked and answered accordingly. We know that the proposal for Krasimir Vlahov was made by the parliamentary majority of the political party GERB and the United Patriarchs. However, I would like to thank colleagues from the "Volja" and from the "Movement of Rights and Freedoms" who expressed a desire to make the relevant meetings, to actually form their position after today's presentation and the report which was read by the President of the Legal Commission Mr. Danail Kirilov. What the Bulgarian Parliament has shown is another proof of transparency in the selection of such positions and the way in which the relevant procedures and procedural rules are made are adopted. Here I would just like to say that there was a reproach by a MP from the left that something is being done secretly and something is being done behind the scenes of the election. I am referring to Mr Svilenski, who had the opportunity to attack the procedures adopted in the Chamber and in which procedures no MP has strayed, and we have always sought to have more opportunity to seek broad parliamentary support at such a choice. I would also like to thank the Legal Committee for the fact that, indeed, after the deadline for nomination of the candidates concerned was completed, there was only one nomination and there was an opportunity for the hearing to be held in the Legal Committee and, at the same time, with today's report, to proceed to a vote in plenary. Right here I address my colleagues on the left when they come out and talk about that there is something behind the scenes, now is the time, colleagues on the left, to take your attitude, to give your assessment both for the procedure and for the questions that you could ask to the nominated candidate. Because if you do not do so today in plenary, you simply do not have the moral right to then be judges of procedures that apply and are voted in plenary. I do not think that a systematic party, such as BSP, should be a populist party and should play only with people's fears. This is where I want to address another institution and I am convinced that it should make such an approach in such transparency and procedures that must be adopted, because no one currently knows what is the procedure for choosing a constitutional judge, which will be made by the presidential institution. I call on the President of the country: let him be much more careful and watch closely what the procedures and transparency of the Bulgarian Parliament are. I hope that he will make such discussions and everything will be transparent before society, because today, more than ever, we need this transparency and indeed similar experts and representatives of the judiciary, such as Krasimir Vlahov, to be elected as constitutional judges and to know that they have an impeccable reputation. The very refusal of other political formations to speak today means that the nomination made for Krasimir Vlahov is well deserved. Let us congratulate him with the future choice that will be made in plenary. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From the parliamentary group of GERB we will support the nomination of Mr. Krasimir Vlahov. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u14	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Judge Vlahov! There is a complete misunderstanding of what the procedure is and what is the meaning of the rules for the election of a constitutional judge and the role of the Constitutional Court. There was a debate and a hearing in the Legal Commission as written in the rules. Nowhere in the rules that we have adopted here, however, is it written that we should go to the groups first and seek prior support. The debate, in order to be public, to be clear so as to be obvious why a candidate is elected, supported or not supported, occurs in the Legal Commission or the Court of Justice, as stated in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, in the special rules adopted here. There are no such rules for the Presidency because the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, is a single institution under the Bulgarian Constitution. What are we talking about here today? Not just one candidate, but we are talking about the Constitution and the way its compliance is guaranteed. What did we hear in the statement just now? We heard parliamentary groups, BSP, presidency, I don't know what. Have we heard the Constitution, have we heard the Constitutional Court? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Did we hear anything about the subject we're talking about? Until recently, I thought you didn't want to have this debate, but now I'm convinced that you can't have this debate. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Judge Vlahov, I would like to say this, has undoubtedly the professional qualities to take up the position for which he has been nominated. I'm not afraid to say it, that's true. Judge Vlahov had the right, like all other judges, to develop his candidacy in competition. This procedure was meaningless when the proposal for his candidacy was signed by all the parliamentary groups of this country and in a public application was supported by the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. When a large part of the National Assembly supports the candidacy even before the hearing, the hearing does not matter much. Why should we abstain, ladies and gentlemen of the House? Because we are talking about non-compliance with the Constitution, and the Constitution also states that every MP has the right to his opinion, opinion and personal conviction, and it is not just a rubber stamp to legitimize decisions previously taken. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Replies: "Bravo! ")]] Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! Dear Judge Vlahov, I will finish my statement as I finished it on the Legal Commission. In 1996, on the occasion of the fifth anniversary of the adoption of the Bulgarian Constitution, the National Assembly with its then president, Blagovest Sendov, decided to issue the Constitution in a small yellow book. Every law student has seen her. In the back of this book, the publishers decide to write: "And let this Charter not just remain on paper. " - It is time for this to happen! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u15	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there lines? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u16	A line, Madam President, so that Mr. Zarkov can take an opinion and answer the question. The first question is this, Mr. Zarkov: why did you withdraw the candidacy of Yanaki Stoilov, who applied...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u17	I'll tell you right away.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u18	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u19	I would like to say: why is this the second time you've avenged a wonderful lawyer, a wonderful constitutionalist? [[Noise and lines. Applause by GERB.]] The second question, Mr. Zarkov, is this: why are you manipulating every statement and neglecting the facts that we have laid out in our presentation? We presented Judge Vlahov as a judge who has always respected the Law and, respectively, the Constitution, which is the Supreme Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Tsvetanov, second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u21	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Zarkov, just to say that in order not to have such a competitive start, which you are talking about, is the lack of an appropriate application that you can nominate. You wanted to bet on your party candidacy, on Mr. Yanaki Stoilov, who I respect very much as a parliamentarians, and the Bulgarian Parliament lost a worthy MP from choosing you over him. [[Applause from GERB.]] I can tell you that if Yanaki Stoilov was present here today, parliamentaryism and behavior would be very different from the class Yanaki Stoilov and other MPs who did not find a place but had dignity, qualities and authority as parliamentarians, and also authority in their respective party organizations because they know what it is to have a good attitude towards the structures that they nominated and have raised you. Mr. Vlahov, you deserve to be a constitutional judge, and you shouldn't worry at all about what you will have as an abstentionist by the BSP. They are always against everything good that is happening in the country and any transparent procedure that the Bulgarian Parliament can do [[Applause from GERB and OP]] , upholding the Constitution of the country in the first place. That's what BSP does. There are many cases where they blam their own chairman of the party and the parliamentary group. I can give you an example with the Law on Religions, in which we signed as co-chairs the Presidents of GERB, of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, of the Bulgarian Socialist Party, and in the debates and votes held in the respective committees, BSP blaming their President. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u22	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Is there a third line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u23	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear gentlemen replicating, thank you for your lines. They have largely proved that you and I are not having the debate in the same place. I'm only taking the duplicate to express the deep respect of me, my parliamentary group, to the party I represent to associate Professor Yanaki Stoilov. He doesn't deserve to use it the way you use it. He, besides a major parliamentarians, is a major constitutionalist and will continue to do no less important work than that of a constitutional judge, namely a law professor at Sofia University, where he weighs in his place. It weighed in its place and here...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u24	But you didn't raise him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u25	...but you're not the ones deciding who's gonna rise up... [[Noise in the room.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u26	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u27	I just feel tired and want to address everyone, including Judge Vlahov: every Bulgarian authority is used by these people for their small political games...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u28	What people?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u29	...to carry it from one side to the other. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] The result of this, ladies and gentlemen, is that there are no authorities left in Bulgaria that have not been destroyed, and this loses statehood, thus losing constitutionalism. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, Associate Professor Yanaki Stoilov withdrew his candidacy by saying: "In an arranged match I do not play." [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. In the manner of conduct, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u31	Madam President, honourable Members! I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct, because today, on the day when a member of the body is elected, who controls the work of the MPs, representatives of your political power, Mr. Tsvetanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u32	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u33	...to insult not only those who will give their vote today "for", "against" or "abstention" to fill this body, but also to the Bulgarian voters, to those who gave their vote to us all to be in this room. Mr. Tsvetanov has taken the liberty here, and you have allowed him, Madam President, to insult an entire parliamentary group behind which there are over 1 million people...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u34	In what way, Mr. Ivanov? In what way?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u35	...and please make a remark...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u36	What exactly did Mr. Tsvetanov say?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u37	...because today, in this way, with such a debate, the way, impartiality and the work of this body, such as the Constitutional Court, which everyone should trust from now on. Debating and entering such dialectics leads to nothing useful, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u38	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. I followed closely the speeches of all colleagues and find nothing offensive in what Mr. Tsvetanov said or other colleagues. I can't impose censorship. This is a parliament, a democratic institution, and I must ensure that there are no insults. And the speeches made by fellow Members are well-grounded and they argue certain ones. Mr. Zablyanov, what's your statement? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u39	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! The election of a judge in the Constitutional Court from the parliamentary quota is a procedure such as all other procedures, with explicitly written rules from the National Assembly. It provides for all the voting opportunities that we are aware of...................................................................................................... I can't understand the principle on which some of the colleagues think that if they don't all build behind the gymnasium, there will be no exercise in the yard. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This approach seems simple to me, I don't need to explain why. The unity, the majority, the command build up along the garrison and so on are in complete conflict with the spirit of parliamentaryism, which you quote constantly and by which you swear. I find no grounds for expressing such a political position by GERB. The Bulgarian Socialist Party can decide how to vote for a candidacy that was said by my colleagues in the stands. To determine whether a party has a constructive attitude towards the political process, whether it is institutional, whether it is extra-institutional, it does not depend on its way of voting in the National Assembly. If someone didn't understand that, it means they spent their years here for nothing. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u40	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Will there be lines? Line, Mr. Tsvetanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u41	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Just to remind my colleague Jablyanov that the Law on Sports is the next item on the agenda. [[Applause from GERB.]] I would like to tell him that yesterday, when we were watching the Sports Act, he was absent from the real debate and I suppose there will be an opportunity today at the second point to participate actively. Thank you. [[Applause, laughter, excitement at GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u42	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Bikov, for a second line. [[Noise, cheers, laughter in BSP for Bulgaria.]] Your colleagues are very pleased with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u43	Madam President, honourable Members! Mr. Zablyanov, the fact is that the debate is not the best because it cannot be held as a debate between different concepts, and that is why it is up to you to vote. Of course, you have the right to vote however you choose, but if we also vote abstention means not choosing a member of the Constitutional Court because there is no other candidate. And that there is no other application is your problem, because when you say you are an alternative, you should offer alternative policies, alternative applications. Here I heard Mr. Zarkov say: "In an arranged match I don't want to participate." I would add: especially if the match is not settled in my favor because such pathos feel. [[Applause from GERB.]] What it means is that the applicant had gone to the various parliamentary groups to explain to them what he would do as a constitutional judge and they had put their trust in him. It's normal practice. I do, however, expect that this high criterion, which you are now setting, will be set when the presidential quota is broadcast. Let's see what debate will take place there, what big talks and how many applications will be there? Will there be three, four, five applications? Let's see who these people are, debate each other. The vice president and the president will debate each other eventually. [[Laughter at GERB.]] I don't know, it's transparency. The bar you set is very high and I hope you can skip it in the next moment. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Third line, Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u45	Honourable Members of Parliament, Honorable Judge Vlahov! Dear Mr. Jablyanov, I never doubted that the BSP knew best how to vote. Another point is that in recent times he has started to get confused in his votes. I have no doubt that BSP knows how to destroy. So I took the liberty of using that word in the sense of punishing. [[Reply from BSP for Bulgaria.]] That's why I ran away. And I was, and I'm still the first to be saved by you. [[Laughter, excitement and single applause.]] I won't say that one president followed the example, but it doesn't mean anything to me. It's not about me, it's about the confusion you make all the time. Where is the vice of the procedure, Mr. Zablyanov, after we have given a plus in this procedure, we have given more to all meetings in parliamentary groups. You guys didn't want to do it back then. You said we didn't want to participate. You rejected a hand in good faith for a parliamentary debate to reach consensus. Here, in this debate, we should not measure our political effects and defects, but we should give support or support to a worthy professional. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u46	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Zablyanov, will you have the back? Come on in, then. It's been three lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u47	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! A large part of the speeches were essentially not lines, but the lines I will try to answer. The discussion of candidates for the Constitutional Court also implies different positions. Mr. Yanaki Stoilov's candidacy has been withdrawn personally from him and since today his candidacy is not present, I do not find it appropriate to mention his name at all. I do not remember the Bulgarian Socialist Party mentioning the name of Mr. Stoilov and the sketch played by colleagues from GERB do not think it is in their favor. This is a complete denial of everything you say about the content and nature of the debate. The issue concerning the achievement of parliamentary synergies on one or another candidacy implies the absence of a political and deliberate approach. As far as the Bulgarian Socialist Party could not find one in GERB's actions, it refused to participate in this discussion. Moreover, our assessment of the qualities of the candidate who remained is positive.. this was expressed by the stand and you can only read our vote as a relation to how you carry out the parliamentary synergies, Mr. Kirilov. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u48	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Statements? Mr. Atanasov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u49	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I would like to remind you all that the procedure is the choice of a constitutional judge. There are hardly any in our parliament, including a BSP colleague who has just confirmed the undisputed qualities of this candidate. I am convinced that all 240 MPs here, after his clear biography, have left from the lowest step and have walked his way to the highest, I think this is an absolutely worthy candidacy and these debates have been absolutely, absolutely unnecessary for me. I suggest you, since I have no right to propose a stop to the debate, so I suggest we proceed to the vote and be done with this point. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Any lines to Mr. Atanasov's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? [[Noise and lines.]] I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I vote on the draft decision to elect a judge at the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, which Mr. Kirilov read a few minutes ago. They voted 182 MPs: 127, none, abstention 55. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Let's congratulate Mr. Vlahov on his choice and wish him good luck from now on! Here you are, Mr. Vlahov, to say a few words. Congratulations!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u51	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I allow myself to stand on the parliamentary stand so that I can only state that I am aware of the high responsibility you have just given me, and I will not give up on it. Thank you. I wish the National Assembly a successful and fruitful job! [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Vlahov. Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR PHYSICAL RECOGNITION AND SPORTS. Mrs. Zaharieva, come in. Colleagues, please take your seats. Whoever comes out of the room, let's hurry up so we can get back to work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u53	Thank you, Madam President. ..Chapter thirteen....Manufacturer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of Chapter XIII. "Department I " Control by the Minister of Youth and Sports ". The Commission does not support the importer's wording on the name of Section I and proposes to be rejected. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 140, which becomes Art. 139: Art. 139. The Minister for Youth and Sports alone or jointly with other competent state and local authorities shall exercise control over: 1. sports organisations and other persons providing sports services; 2. persons who have received financial support under this law; 3. persons who have concluded a lease or an established right of use or a right of construction for sporting sites; 4. persons operating under this law without meeting its requirements. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 141, which becomes Art. 140: Art. 140. (1) The Minister of Youth and Sport shall exercise control over compliance with the requirements of this Law and its implementing acts, including the cost of public funds provided under this Law. (2) In the exercise of the control under para. 1 The Minister for Youth and Sports may be assisted by external independent experts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u54	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the name of Chapter XIII to the vote; the rejection of the name of Section I; the version of art. 140, which becomes Art. 139 of the Commission Report; the version of art. 141, which becomes Art. 140 on the Commission report. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u55	Under art. 142 has a proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 142, para 1, the following amendments shall be made: 1. in the introductory sentence, the words... in view of the tasks assigned to them.. are replaced by.. in fulfilling their powers under this law.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. point 5 is removed; H point 6 becomes t. 5. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 142, which becomes Art. 141: Art. 141. (1) Control under art. 140, para. 1 shall be exercised by carrying out checks by officials authorised by the Minister for Youth and Sports. (2) When carrying out the inspection, officials shall be legitimised with a verification order and shall be entitled to: 1. of free access to the checked object; 2. require written explanations, documents and other information in paper or electronic form; 3. check accounting, commercial and other documents; 4. require third parties to provide information, documents and other information in paper or electronic form; 5. require the inspected persons to report to the Ministry of Youth and Sports building and to provide access to all places where the inspected persons have performed or carried out activities; 6. to require information from state and local authorities about their control of sports organizations and their activities. (3) The inspected person shall be obliged to assist officials, to provide free access to the premises and documentation and to provide the necessary documents and information relating to the verification within the specified time limits. The documents in a foreign language are presented together with an accurate translation in Bulgarian. The person examined shall not rely on any commercial or other legal secret when carrying out the verification. When providing information to officials, the person inspected shall indicate the materials which he considers to contain a commercial or other secret protected by law and must be regarded as confidential. In this case, the materials shall be provided and the data considered confidential shall be deleted. (4) The person inspected shall provide copies of the documents certified by him. The certification shall be carried out with an inscription dated, date, signature and stamp of a legal or authorised representative of the person under review. (5) State and local authorities shall assist the Minister of Youth and Sports and officials in carrying out their control functions. (6) Officials shall be entitled to free access to public registers when and for the performance of their control functions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u56	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u57	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! If you remember, at the very beginning of the discussion of this bill, I said that sport does not need restrictions and restrictions, sport needs state care and state support. Sports organisations, of course, have mostly defended the thesis against administrative arbitrariness and against interference with sports organizations. Our proposal, which you read and said that the working group has not reached a consensus, has actually been adopted. And I would like to thank the working group and the Commission here for supporting our proposal precisely against the possibility of administrative arbitrariness and interference in the work of sports organisations. What do I mean? Our proposal.............................................................................. 5 which exists in the text of the importer to be dismissed, namely: representatives of the Ministry to attend meetings of the managing and control bodies of the sports organisations, expressing opinions which are reflected in the minutes of the meeting. I dare say that there were even more restrictive and more serious texts concerning the interference in the work of sports organisations of the kind: to offer another different agenda at the general meetings of sports organisations. I would like to say again here that our desire and intentions are in this law, not to make restrictions, but quite the opposite, to protect the work of sports organisations and to be in support. For sport, I have always said that it takes a lot of heart and, of course, means, care and support from the state. Thank you for still accepting our proposal and putting it in the Commission's text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u58	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. They voted 91 MPs: 27, against 22, abstention 32. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the editorial of art. 142, which becomes Art. 141 on the Commission report. Vote 78 MPs: for 78, against and abstentions, there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u59	Under art. 143 has a proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev, Prodanov. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal under paragraph 1. 1 and 3, which is reflected in its systematic location in art. 1 and 3, respectively. 141 in the version of the Commission and in a new Article. 143, and doesn't support it on t. 2, namely: "2." Alinea 5 is out. The Commission generally supports the text of the importer, but proposes art. 143 to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 141 in the version of the Commission. The Commission proposes to create new art. 142 and 143: Art. 142. Officials shall: 1. reflect precisely the facts of the verification carried out; 2. protect the professional and commercial secrets which have become known to them in connection with the inspection carried out; 3. do not disclose data from the verification; 4. process personal data subject to the Personal Data Protection Act. Art. 143. (1) A consolidated report shall be drawn up for the verification carried out in duplicate, which shall be signed by the officials who have carried out the verification. The minutes shall be submitted to the inspected person who is entitled to give explanations and objections at the time of his service. (2) In the event of the detection of infringements, the Minister of Youth and Sport, on a proposal from officials, shall refer to the competent authorities, implement forced administrative measures or impose the penalties provided for by law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u60	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the National Representative Vesela Lecheva on this. 2. Vote 80 MPs: 21, against 26, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the rejection of art. 143, as it is reflected in its systematic place in art. 141. They voted 75 MPs: for 75, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the newly created Articles 142 and 143. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u61	Section II - Control by Sports Federations. The Commission does not support the importer's wording on the name of Section II and proposes to reject it. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 144: Art. 144. (1) The Sports Federation shall exercise control over its members to comply with the requirements of this Law. (2) In the event of the detection of violations committed by sports clubs, the sports federation shall inform the Minister of Youth and Sports. (3) Within one month of the notification under para. 2 The Minister of Youth and Sports shall appoint an inspection. (4) The sports federation shall terminate the membership of a sports club which has allowed systematic violations of the anti-opping rules under art. 90, para. 4. "Chapter 14, Forced and Administrative Measures." The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 14. Under art. 145 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 145: Art. 145. For the prevention and cessation of infringements under this law and its implementing regulations, and for the prevention and elimination of the harmful effects thereof, the Minister of Youth and Sports or the Deputy Minister authorised by it shall have the right to: 1. gives mandatory prescriptions; 2. ordering sports federations to bring their internal acts in accordance with this law; 3. stop financial support; 4. prohibits sports competitions and events. Under art. 146 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 146: Art. 146. (1) Forced administrative measures shall be applied by a reasoned order of the Minister of Youth and Sports or a Deputy Minister authorised by him on the basis of a reasoned report by an official of the Ministry of Youth and Sport. (2) In the order under para. 1 the basis for the application, type and method of application of the compulsory administrative measure concerned shall be determined. The order shall be communicated within 7 days of the enforcement of the administrative measure under the Administrative Procedure Code. (3) The order under para. 1 shall be subject to appeal before the administrative court concerned under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. The appeal shall not suspend the enforcement of the enforcement measure applied. Under art. 147 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes art. 147 to be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u62	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to reject the name of Section II; the wording of art. 144 in the version of the Commission; 145, as proposed; Article 146; proposal Art. 147 to be rejected and the name of Chapter 14. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u63	Chapter 15, Administrative Penal Provisions. The Commission shall support the importer's text on the name of Chapter 15. The Commission supports the text of the importer and proposes the following version of art. 148, which becomes art. 147: Art. 147. (1) A person who carries out an activity for which a sports licence is required without having one shall be subject to a penalty of 5000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) For violation of art. 17, para. 2 the sports club shall be subject to a penalty in the size of para. 1. (3) When the infringement under para. 1 or 2 is repeated, the penalty is 15 000 BGN The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. Art. 149, which becomes art. 148: Art. 148. (1) Person under art. 90, para. 1 which committed a violation of the anti-opping rules under art. 90, para. 4, a fine of 1000 to 2000 BGN is imposed. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, the fine is 3,000 BGN Under art. 150 has a proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 150, which becomes art. 149: Art. 149. (1) Person under art. 90, para. 2 which allows violation of the anti-opping rules under art. 90, para. 4 a financial penalty shall be imposed as follows: 1. in the amount of 1000 BGN. for the first offence; 2. in the amount of BGN 2000 for a second offence; 3. in the amount of 3000 lv. for a third infringement; 4. in the amount of 4000 BGN for any further violation. (2) The Sanction under para. 1 shall be imposed on sports federations only if the infringement was committed by an athlete or an official of the national team during a national team camp or at a competition organised by an international sports organisation. Outside the cases referred to in the sentence first, the penalty shall be imposed on the sports club in which the person carries out his activity. (3) The order of the infringement under para. 1, t. For a period of two years from the date of the imposition of a prior penalty for infringement under para. 1 or para. 2 with an act in force. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 151, which becomes Art. 150: Art. 150. (1) An official of the Antidoping Centre or a member of an anti-opping team who has failed to fulfil his obligation in carrying out the doping control shall be fined from 500 to 1000 BGN. (2) For each subsequent infringement under para. 1 fine amounts to BGN 2000 Proposal from the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new art. 151: Art. 151. For failure to comply with a forced administrative measure under art. 145 persons are subject to a fine, respectively a penalty of 500 to 1000 BGN The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 152: Art. 152. (1) For other violations of the law or its implementing regulations, other than those referred to in art. 147 - 151, the persons are subject to a fine, respectively a penalty of 500 to 1000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is repeated, the fine, respectively the penalty is 2000 BGN The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of art. 153: Art. 153. (1) The acts establishing the infringements shall be drawn up by officials appointed by order of the Minister of Youth and Sports and for infringements under art. 150 by order of the Executive Director of the Antidopping Center. (2) Criminal decrees shall be issued by the Minister of Youth and Sport or by an official authorised by him, and for violations under art. 150 by the Executive Director of the Antidopping Centre. (3) The establishment of infringements, the issuance, appeal and execution of criminal ordinances shall be carried out in accordance with the Law on Administrative Violations and Punishments.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u64	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We vote on the name of Chapter 15 by importer; art. 148, which becomes art. Article 147; Art. 149, which becomes art. Article 148; 150, which becomes art. Article 149; 151, which becomes Art. 150 and the creation of new art. Art. 151, Art. Art. 152, Art. 153.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u65	They voted 93 MPs: 93, with no objection and no abstention. The proposals have been accepted. My fellow Members, I am pleased to inform you that today's guest of the National Assembly is this year's winner of the European Parliament's civil prize, the Abbot of the Bulgarian Monastery in Macedonia, Archimandrite Partenus. He's on the balcony of the plenary. Please welcome him to the Bulgarian Parliament! [[All rise and welcome the guest with applause.]] Archimandrith Partheny is nominated for his active activity in terms of signing the Treaty on Friendship, Good Neighborhood and Cooperation between Bulgaria and Macedonia, and also for contributing to strengthening the European spirit and values of the citizens of the region. The award will be awarded to him at the Club of the National Representative. Please, all MPs during the break, give the order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u66	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. Proposal of the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MPs Vesela Lecheva, Ivan Chenchev and Hristo Prodanov. The additional provisions of § 1 shall be established. 21.. 32. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposals to create a point. 26, 27 and 30 and does not support it in the rest: ..21. It is a right of use for certain hours of the day and for a period of up to one year. 22. "Sports product' is a value or service resulting from sports activity, for personal or public realization. 23. It is a very public phenomenon (a sphere of human activity), characterized by a specialized system of means, tools and forms of motor activity to strengthen health, improve physical fitness and harmonious development and expression of human beings. 24. The sport system defines as a set of elements (physical education and sport for all, sport for excellence, scientific information, material and technical provision, financial insurance, organization and management of the system, etc.), the interaction of which leads to the emergence of new integrational qualities, not inherent to the separate components forming the system. The latter represents such an entity, whose distinctive features are the links, integrity and their dependent stability of the structure. 25. "Sport activities' is any form of physical activity which, through organised or disorganized participation, aims at expressing or improving physical and mental fitness, developing social relations or achieving sports results at all levels. 28. The physical culture is a collection of scientific and practical achievements as a result of the diverse complex human activity aimed at achieving physical perfection and its manifestation in public practice and everyday life. 29. The Sports Organisation is an organisation based on sport activities in accordance with this law. 31. A form of exercise, i.e. sports activities harmonised with morpho functional characteristics and the age of children, is organized for children. 32. "Sports sites" are real estate or real estate complexes, as well as movable objects that are functionally conditioned and meet the specific technical requirements for the exercise of physical activity and outdoor sports and indoors. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... For the 1. It is a health-enhancing physical activity by people with limited abilities or health problems according to their interests and abilities. 2. The high achievements are the high performances of athletes by reaching the titles of European and world championships or Olympic Games or of results comparable to world standards. 3. "Military-applied sports" are sports that develop specific skills applicable to the needs of the armed forces and contribute to increasing the level of training in the field of defence. 4. The State Sports Calendar is a list of appropriate time-ordered sports competitions adopted by the Sports Federation. 5. "Forbidden substances and prohibited methods' are substances and methods that are listed on the current list of prohibited substances and methods adopted by the World Anti-opping Agency and the Convention against the use of doping of the Council of Europe. 6. The International Sports Calendar is a list of appropriate time-ordered sports competitions established by the International Sports Federation. 7. The Olympic cycle is the period between two summer or winter Olympics. 8. The offence committed within one year of the entry into force of the criminal decree punishing the person for the same offence. 9. "Professional athletes" are individuals who conduct systematic training and competition and for them this is a major profession and receive remuneration for this activity. 10. The following are related persons: (a) spouses, relatives on the line without restrictions, a line of sarebs to the fourth degree including; (b) employer and worker; (c) the persons one of whom participates in the management of the company of the other. 11. In the course of a two-year period for which penalties have been imposed on the person by criminal decrees entering into force, there have been three or more infringements. 12. It is directly or indirectly financed by athletes, sports organisations and sports events carried out by a natural or legal person in order to help promote its name, brand or public prestige, and the amount of funds provided exceeds the market value of the advertising service received in return. 13. Amateur athletes are individuals who carry out systematic training and competition and for them this is not a major profession and/or who do not receive remuneration for this activity. 14. The sport for excellence is systematic, highly intense, scientifically-based training and racing activity to achieve excellence from athletes. 15. Sport is a health-enhancing physical activity of individuals in their free time through free choice of individual or organized practice of exercise and sport. 16. Sports events are different types of organized sports events. 17. It is a health-enhancing physical activity of individuals in their free time through free choice of individual or organized practice of exercise and sport in nature. 18. A competitive activity is a form of expression of the individual's motor and psychic abilities within established racing rules. 19. "Transfer" is a transfer of racing rights to athletes. 20. The training services are the conduct or organisation of training, sports activities, training or competition. 21. The physical activity is intended (planned, structured and repeatable) a form of movement or exercise to strengthen people's health. 22. Physical education is a process aimed at education, developing man's motor skills, acquiring skills and knowledge in the field of physical culture and sport. 23. "Fair game" are ethical rules for the behaviour of persons involved directly or indirectly in the administration or practice of physical education and sport, with a view to ensuring the personal dignity of each individual, creating a spirit of mutual respect between sportsmen and preventing negative events in sport.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u67	Statements? I can't see. I'm voting on the name of the division. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. Vote 80 MPs: 19 against 29 abstentions 32. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u68	Madam President, before I proceed with the report, I would like to reschedule art. 90.................................................................................. 7 on page 84 of the Report: The Council of Ministers has decreed in accordance with the provisions of the World Anti-opping Code and the acts under para. 1................................................................................................. 3.................................................................................. There's been a technical error.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u69	Please vote on the editorial amendment in art. 90, para. 7, instead of "al." 1................................................................................................. 3.................................................................................. Vote 77 MPs: for 76, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u70	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... (1) The Law on Physical Education and Sports (prom., SG No. ...) is repealed. (2) Unfinished proceedings under the repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports shall be completed in the current order until the entry into force of the law. Proposal of the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create new § 3 and § 4: .................................................. In the Law on Higher Education (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 30, para. 1 is created t. 15a: 15pm. decide to set up a sports club under art. 43, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports and adopted regulations for its organisation and activities. § 4. In the Law on Tourism (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 2 is created t. 12: ..12. a representative of the National Sport and Tourist Organization. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 129, para. 3, p. 1 (e) the words... and the social tourism sites under art. Article 48a (b) is replaced by Article 48a (c) and (d) and (e) are replaced by the following: 9, para. 1, t. The following information shall be provided in accordance with Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009: The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 5, as in para. 2 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of According to § 4 there is a proposal of the MP Slavcho Atanasov. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... (1) The licensed sports federations shall comply with the requirements of the law within one year of its entry into force. (2) Within the term under para. 1 The sports federations shall present to the Ministry of Youth and Sports and the documents under art. 21, para. 1, t. Seven, eight, and ten. (3) A sports federation which has failed to fulfil its obligations under para. 1 and 2, the sports licence shall be revoked and deleted from the register referred to in Article 2. 9, para. 1, t. 1. (4) The sports federation, which has fulfilled its obligations under para. 1 and 2, the Minister for Youth and Sports or an official authorised by him shall issue an unlimited sports licence. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 5 be rejected. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 6, which becomes § 7, as in para. 2 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of Regulation (EU, The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall become § 8. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... (1) The Minister of Youth and Sports shall, within three months of the entry into force of the law, keep the registers of the repealed Law on Physical Education and Sports in accordance with it. (2) The regulations issued until the entry into force of the law shall apply insofar as they do not concern it. The Commission proposes to establish § 10: ..................................................... In the Law on the Protection of Public Order in the Conduct of Sports Events (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7a, para. 1 the words for which an act has been issued in accordance with the order is replaced by the words "in accordance with the requirements'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, para. 1 the words spare sports objects in accordance with the requirements of art. 47b, para. 1 of the Law on Physical Education and Sports and are being deleted. ..................................................... The law shall enter into force within three months of its promulgation in the Official Journal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9, which shall become § 11. Proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov: screated § 1a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way Annex 1 to art. 103, para. 10 List of properties to secure training and sports competition activities of the National Olympic Centre: 1. National Stadium of Vasil Levski; 2. National Sports Complex 3. Capital colodum "Serdika"; 4. Tennis Hall "Sofia"; 5. National sports halls - Rakovski; 6. National Sports Base "Sportpalas" "Sportpalas" "Sportpalas"." Varna; 7. High-mountain sports complex "Belmeken"; 8. National Sports Base canoe-kayak. Kardjali. 9. National Sports Base "Tsar......................................................................................................... Petrich; 10. National equestrian sports base "Han Asparuh"; 11. Winter Palace, gr. Sofia; 12. Palace of Culture and Sports. Varna; 13. Hall "Festivalna" "Festivalna" / "Festivalna" / "Festivalna" / "Festivalna" / 14. Comb canal.................................................................... 15. Sport complex "Academics" "Academics" / "Academics" / "Academics" / "Academics" / "Academics" / "Academics" / 16. Tennis complex "Academic" "Academic" "Academic" / "Academic" / "Tennis complex" / "Academic" / "Academic 17. Sports Hall "Sports Hall."........................................................................................ 18. Open sports facilities and facilities, sports courts, Indoor sports complex for training and training and Multifunctional sports hall on the territory of the National Sports Academy Vasil Levski. Sofia; 19. Water school sports base of the National Sports Academy Vasil Levski. Nessebar. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u71	Statements? Here you go, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u72	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I take the floor with regard to our proposal as an application in this bill to be scheduled and to be part of the Law national sports facilities and facilities that are specific, special in nature and function, which are intended for the teaching and training activities of all national competitors. Since I have gone without any debate, without any discussion about our proposal for the creation of a National Olympic Center to include these same sports facilities, I would like to ask the importers a question: what will be the fate of these sporting objects, what will their future be, and what requires their dismissal from the Law?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u73	Thank you, dear Mrs. Lecheva. Will there be lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. Colleagues, I vote on the name of the division; the version of § 2 of the Commission Report; the creation of new paragraphs 3 and 4; § 3 which becomes § 5 with amendments; the version of § 4 which becomes § 6 of the Commission Report; the rejection of § 5; the version of § 6 which becomes § 7 of the Commission Report; the supported text of the importer for § 7, which becomes § 8; the version of § 8 which becomes § 9 of the Commission Report; the creation of § 10 and the text of the importer for § 9 which becomes § 11. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MPs Lecheva, Chenchev and Prodanov. They voted 85 MPs: 15 against 41, abstention 29. The offer is not accepted. With this, colleagues, today we adopted the Law on Physical Education and Sports in a second vote. There's a procedure from Mr. Kirilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u74	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, until the legislative part of the plenary has expired, I ask for an extension of the time until we discuss and vote on a second item on the agenda............................................................................... There are few regulations. I think they went by consensus in the Committee on Legal Affairs. I think we could quickly discuss this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u75	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I put to the vote Mr. Kirilov's proposal to include a second item in today's agenda the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Legal Aid. Vote 79 MPs: 71, against 5, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. We continue with the third point for today: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR LEGAL AID. Mr. Kirilov, come and introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u76	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Your attention is: ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid, No 802-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 August 2018. At its meeting on 19 September 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid, No 802-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 August 2018. The meeting was attended by: by the Ministry of Justice Mrs. Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister of Justice and by the National Legal Aid Office Mrs. Elena Cherneva Chairman. The bill was presented by Mrs. Ahladova, who pointed out that it aims to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by removing the requirement for the submission of paper by citizens of documents certifying the grounds for providing legal assistance issued by the relevant competent departments of the Agency for Social Assistance, the National Insurance Institute, the National Revenue Agency, the Employment Agency and the Registry Agency. Ms. Ahladova clarified that the proposed amendments and additions to the Law on Legal Aid will ensure more effective protection of citizens' interests and greater speed of the procedure for granting it. The discussion was attended by the MPs Pencho Milkov and Christian Mitev, who said they support the proposed legislative changes. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid, No 802-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 August 2018...............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. I'm opening the debate. I don't see anyone who wants to make a statement. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Legal Aid, No 802-01-33, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 August 2018. They voted 72 MPs: for 72, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we're interrupting. 11:00. I'm in control. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u78	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue with the weekly program. There is a request for declarations on behalf of parliamentary groups. We'll start with them. First of all, Mrs. Zaharieva. Come on behalf of GERB's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u79	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly, fellow teachers! Today on October 5, we celebrate the International Teacher's Day along with 100 other countries. For us teachers, this is an occasion to remind ourselves of the status, rights and importance of our profession. Master not only enlightens, teaches, distributes and educates, he is the very foundations of society! So he responds most quickly to the challenges of time, so he feels the changes first, and that is why the requirements of society towards him are the greatest and often more than possible. But this, fellow Members, is not a profession that starts with the first bell and ends with the last hour! Every time in our history has tested the teacher, but always out of his hands, figuratively speaking, have come forth generations who have claimed and claimed, and prove that they are the best, the most successful and the most capable. The challenges of today are great. We are already living in the time of the Industry 4.0. We are talking about children too different from the last generations. Old and new social models are still struggling and we are still looking for and recognizing moral values as an absolute norm in our lives to pass them on to these very different children of ours. That is why in GERB we have a rigid policy in which education and teacher are our priority. This is not just about legislative changes, it is not just about changing funding, raising wages from January 1st by 20%, better conditions for qualification, more opportunities and professional growth. We are talking about something else. This is about sustainability, stability and perspective, rights, status and importance of the profession, whose mission is to educate, and it is in a century where Google is believed to know everything, or at least.......................................................................... Dear colleagues, it is only right on this day to say that in Bulgaria, teachers, there was tension that our profession was not appreciated that we do not have enough support that parents do not pay tribute to the institution and to the professionals in it. As a society, we have allowed the bad examples to occupy the topic of school and kindergarten as loudly as possible and to view the normal successful day in the classroom as a special achievement and the good examples as an exception. It is right to say that society has asked for more from its teachers more flexibility, more successful results, more care, more quality and more responsibilities. And you didn't accept the position that school and kindergarten should be a territory forbidden to others! And yes, the school does not rarely resist these demands. As politicians, it is difficult to find and find the balance between different demands and sustainable models, but for GERB the most important thing is the sustainability of the policy in education. Life and everyday life offer us different examples and challenges each day. Success in one school is not always success in another. Laws and norms cannot be dealt with at once with poor sustainable perceptions in our profession, but they are the basis for change. We all want one thing: quality education, highly trained teachers, a clear perspective for the development of the whole system and this is the foundation of our party's policy! Dear colleagues, you will allow me this October 5th to address those young people who do not yet know whether they would choose teaching for their profession and those who hesitate. Dear future fellow professors, don't believe in fairy tales that you will find it difficult in this profession because of the salaries, because of the parents, because of the collective, the career, the hours and so on. Do not believe, because it will be not difficult, but very difficult! And not because of the directors, not because of the increased salaries, not because of the ambitions of mothers and fathers, grandparents, not because of the laws, regulations, rules, instructions of the Educational Ministry, not even because of the curriculum, but even if we don't forget about Google. It will be difficult for you, dear young people, because it will be you, you with only your skills, with your professional training, with your personal ambition to be successful in the classroom, with your children! You young people must be their learning, their knowledge, their upbringing, their example. And then the director, the parents, the laws, the regulations, even Google, will be your ally. Then you will understand that the teaching profession is a calling and a mission, and this is not a cliché said during a holiday. Happy International Teacher's Day, fellow Members! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Zaharieva. There is a request for a declaration on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u81	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of the House, honourable Ministers, honourable fellow teachers! October 5, is another reason for seeking answers to global questions related to the mission of the teacher's profession. Since long ago, the teacher has always held an important part in society, precisely because without people to educate, a society could not exist. During the Renaissance in Bulgaria, teachers were among the pioneers who laid the foundations for restoring our national self-consciousness. One of our greatest historical figures were teachers - Neofit Rilski, Petar Beron, Hristo Botev, Ivan Vazov, Dobri Chintulov, Yordan Yovkov, the Miladinov brothers. Each of us remembers our first day of school and our first teacher. Each of us has a teacher who has played an important role in his life because, in addition to knowledge, he has given him all his love, taught him to think alone, to seek and find answers, to doubt, to analyze, to distinguish between good and evil. The main factors that determine the quality of education are: good pay, good training, opportunities for professional and career development, high competition for training and jobs, prestige of the profession. What happens in Bulgaria? In recent decades, a state and society have destroyed the teacher's authority and demeaned his profession. We are witnessing the bold, rude, aggressive behavior of some of the students to the teachers. Why? It's not natural, is it? Because the school reflects what is happening in the state.. lack of values, insolence, arrogance, corruption. We are now a society where education has ceased to be value and priority. The costs made by the state for education in Bulgaria in the distant 1900s are such that Bulgaria occupies 15th place in the world, ahead of all Balkan and other countries! This year, although it has been declared a priority, only 3.6% of gross domestic product is allocated to education according to Eurostat on average for the European Union, this percentage is 5.3. Although the first steps have already been taken to raise teachers' salaries, in Bulgaria they still have some of the lowest incomes in Europe. It is understandable for the low salaries of teachers and their pensions to be at the lowest level! If, in 1896, shortly after the Liberation, the minimum teacher's pension was 219 BGN, then after more than a century? in 2016, the average teacher's pension was 270 BGN. Today this teacher's pension is far below the threshold of physical survival and another proof of public recognition and the authority of the Bulgarian teacher in modern Bulgaria! Pedagogy as a major continues to be the lowest admission ball in universities and this has its consequences. Often the qualification is not consistent with the desire of teachers, but with certain economic interests and private training institutions. [[(Noise, lines and shouts: "Eee, today is a holiday!"..................................................................................................................]] There are limited opportunities for the teacher's creative approach and because of the overloaded educational content and ideologically mutilated curricula.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u82	Please excuse me, Mrs. Simeonova! Please, colleagues, let's remember the rule of school years: let's not call in class from place! Please! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u83	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u84	Please continue, Mrs. Simeonova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u85	I'm sure the teachers understand what I'm talking about! In 2016, the new Preschool and School Education Act came into force and put teachers and heads of educational institutions to the test. State education standards written, corrected, canceled, added, established an educational system in which, unfortunately, not the student, not the teacher, but the documentation is the most important. A system that restricts the teacher's rights in the classroom, forbids him to remove students from class, allows students from the first, second, third and fourth classes to pass into the next class without even achieving the necessary educational minimum and even being literate! A system in which the number of students is a driving force, and sometimes the survival of a school depends on several students. A system that has turned the teacher into a clerk who spends more honor than his time writing references and presenting sometimes unnecessary information. It is quite logical, then, that the latest Eurostat data on Bulgaria shows that it is among the countries of the European Union where the problem of aging teachers and feminination of the teaching profession is the most acute. Our country ranks second in the European Union for the ageing of teachers. About 48% of teachers in Bulgaria are over 50 years old and young teachers up to 35 years old are about 13%. [[Heckling]] As a result, often the teacher is without self-esteem, fewer and fewer are those who want to become teachers and accept the profession as recognition. But there are more than 90 thousand teachers in Bulgaria. These are the people who are appreciated and controlled daily by the most critical and demanding audience of the children and students. The requirements for the teacher are enormous. He needs to know the material perfectly, to provoke interest, to hold attention, to have strong vision, quick reactions, to be a good psychologist, speaker, even an artist, to have an enviable temper, to have a sense of humor, to know how to act in emergency situations, to protect the life and health of students, as a true teacher to find an approach to every child, to help him reveal his talent and his good qualities. Therefore, with concern and thought about the future, the Bulgarian Socialist Party proposed a non-party open project, which aims to present concrete solutions on strategic issues for our country, especially in the field of education. [[Noise and lines.]] We propose that education be a state priority and subject to exceptional state control. To create an accessible and modern school, motivated and thinking students. And here again is the teacher of the future. BSP offers the promotion of the teaching profession as a regulated profession of high social importance, left under the control and protection of the state. We foresee no less than 100 hours per year for postgraduate qualification of teachers; periodic paid leave for qualification; incentives for high qualifications. We offer optimized information system to end endless paperwork at school. We will defend the payment of teaching work above the average wage and stimulate the good results; creativity and work under difficult conditions; education and national values to lie deep in the educational process. The aim is the profession of teacher to receive public recognition and respect, and the teacher to feel free to realize his ideas in order to have Bulgaria. With the love and patience with which it leads the future of Bulgaria, the Bulgarian teacher continues to be the awakener of our time, the most competitive, the most inspired, the most jealous guardian of Bulgarian national values and freedom. Dear teachers, you are happy with the love of your students. Be healthy, be wholehearted and stand up for yourself! Bow to your work! Happy Thanksgiving! Thank you! [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Simeonova. Dear Members of Parliament, we move on to the weekly: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. I will introduce you to a communication for a request from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov and the National Representative Georgi Stratilov Svilenski to Mladen Marinov, Minister of Interior, on the policy of the Ministry of Interior for the registration and reporting of crimes of general nature and traffic accidents. The reply should be made in plenary on 12 October 2018. Written responses were received from: - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on a question of the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev of the National Representative Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova of the National Representative Zhelyo Boychev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov on a question from the National Representative Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Pencho Milkov and Stoyan Mirchev; - Minister of Culture Boel Banov on a question from the National Representative Emilia Staneva Milkova. These are the answers that have been answered. Before we proceed to a hearing of the ministers in plenary, I will inform you that on the grounds of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Lalo Kirilov and Nikolay Tsonkov, Dimitar Danchev and Milko Nedyalkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the National Representative Slavcho Velkov and to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on three questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Georgiev and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question by the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Ivanov; - Culture Minister Boel Banov to two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Krum Zarkov; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on two issues from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; Nikolai Ivanov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva on one question with a written answer from the MP Lyubomir Bonev. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev; - two questions from the National Representative Christian Vigenin to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov; - three questions from the MPs Petar Kanev, Dzhevdet Chakarov, two questions to the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, the Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva, the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev and the Minister of Youth and Sports Krasen Kralev will not participate. Those were the messages, we're moving on to the questions. The first question is from the MP Desislava Atanasova to the Minister of Environment and Water Mr. Neno Dimov, who refers to the clean air in the city of Razgrad. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, ministers! Mr. Dimov, my question to you is provoked because in my reception room, as a representative of the National Assembly in Razgrad, there are signals from citizens of the city about air cleanliness. Residents of Razgrad complain of sharp, suffocating, irritating and unpleasant smells in the morning and evening hours of the day. On 25 September this year, that is, a day before I asked my question about parliamentary control, a protest for Razgrad's clean air was organised. This provoked my specific questions within the framework of parliamentary control, namely, how many measurements of ambient air purity were made by RIEW? Has excess dust emissions and harmful substances have been established? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u88	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Atanasova, in order to assess the quality of the air, Razgrad is included in the schedule for control of measurements with laboratory automatic station of the Regional Laboratory Ruse, which is at the Executive Environment Agency. Three measurements of ambient air quality during the months of March, June and August were carried out between January and September 2018. According to the results of the measurement in March and June, single minimum excesses of the maximum single concentration for the hydrogen cyanide indicator were recorded and in September the average overnight concentration of the same indicator was also recorded. At present, the measurements did not account for any excesses of the mid-day concentration of fine particulate matter. In order to identify the likely source of unpleasant smells from RIEW.. Ruse, the following actions have been taken. Nine checks have been carried out on sites of potential sources of smells located within the city; within the framework of the controls were taken samples of the waste water from the urban sewage treatment plant of Razgrad, to the water treatment plant of the city. The waste water treatment plant of Razgrad, the waste water treatment plant of Pilko The results of the methodological analysis of the samples taken showed deviations from the individual emission limits set out in the permit documents issued to the companies. For the specific violations by RIEW Ruse, have imposed sanctions as follows: BGN 191.; "Водосто изнаво изболод" Ltd. "Разградрад" as operator of the urban waste water treatment plant in Razgrad 67 thousand. 35 leva.; "Amilum An act is to be drawn up in accordance with the Water Act of the "Biovet" JSC for not achieving the required quality of waste water treatment at the exit of the treatment plant. The results of all these measurements for ambient air quality are provided to Razgrad Municipality and Razgrad Regional Health Inspection in order to carry out an analysis on the impact of measured concentrations on the health of the city population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u90	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Atanasova, will you take a stand? You've got a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u91	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you, Minister, for your comprehensive response. I am partly familiar with the actions of RIEW Ruse, in terms of the measurements during the year, respectively with the penal decrees and sanctions, which are in serious proportions. I would like to introduce you to a signal that I will personally give you once my attitude is complete. It has a copy to all MPs, with a copy to the President of Parliament from the Initiative Committee on Air Cleanliness in Razgrad. Please take appropriate measures with regard to measurement from a mobile station in Razgrad to really monitor the purity of the ambient air. Thank you in advance for taking such precautions. [[Sends a document folder to Minister Neno Dimov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u92	Thank you, Mrs. Atanasova. Mr. Minister, I think the positions have been clarified. This was the only question for Mr. Dimov "the Minister of Environment and Water." Thank you for participating today. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Interior Mr. Mladen Marinov. The first is from the MP Todor Baychev and refers to a single automated centralized register of licenses for private security activities. Mr. Baychev, you have the floor to develop your question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We adopted a law on private security activities that came into force this year, somewhere since the end of March, and in the Transitional and Final Regulations we ordered the Ministry of Interior to establish a single automated centralised register of licences for private security activities. At this time this has not been created, although there is still a little time, but the time is little. 31 March 2019. There is virtually no and it is not clear how many security companies in Bulgaria are, where they are registered and what kind of activity they are doing at the moment. In accordance with art. 41 of the Private Security Action Act, the control of this activity is carried out by the Ministry of Interior, the Security Police Directorate General, the Criminal Police Directorate General and the Regional Ministry of Interior departments to which such an order has been given, and can carry out preliminary, current or documentary control over these companies. Dear Minister, on the grounds of art. 90, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 95 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly, I would like to ask you: at what stage of administrative, organisational and financial measures are we from the creation of a single automated centralised register of private security licenses, which should lead to effective system management, administrative control processes and the possibility of monitoring the legality of private security processes? I see that there is a delay in this purely administrative process by the Ministry of Interior to fulfil this legal obligation and the processes are slow and sluggish. My question to you is as follows: what is the readiness of the Ministry of Interior to create a single automated centralised register of licenses for private security activities? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u94	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Minister, you have 3 minutes to answer Mr. Baychev's question. You have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u95	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Baychev! The development and implementation of an automated information system "Licensing and control of the private security activity" for the services of a register under the Private Security Act is included as part of the priorities of the Road map for the implementation of the Strategy for Development of Electronic Governance in the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2016 - 2020 adopted by Decision No 983 of the Council of Ministers of 15 November 2016 under the Operational Program "Good Governance." In order to implement this activity, funds of 420 thousand are envisaged. lv. The deadline for its implementation is 31 December 2018. In June 2018, a draft proposal on the developed and established task for the construction of an automated information system was established.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The administrative and organizational measures are to be finalised by the Department of Public Procurement and the Ministry of Interior with the choice of a public procurement contractor to build an automated information system. According to § 8 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Private Security Activity Act, promulgated in the Official Journal, p. 10 of 30 January 2018, in force from 31 March 2018, the deadline for the establishment of the single automated centralised register of licences under art. 70, para. 1 of the Private Security Act is up to one year from the entry into force of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u96	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Baychev, you have the opportunity to take the attitude to the given answer. Please, you have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply, but I cannot be pleased with it, as I think it was purely formal and blanquet. I dare say that according to the data being exported, the turnover in this type of activity varies from around 1.. 1.5 billion. lv. up to 2,5 billion. lv. Something that is well above the budget of the Ministry of Interior, as you already know as a minister, and you were the Secretary General, and you are in the loop. This much larger budget we do not know what hands it goes into, what purely economic entities and which individuals are behind them. The other thing that also disturbs me is the prosecutor's inquiry and that it establishes some disturbing facts, namely that licenses have been given to criminals, mentally ill. You're a career police officer, you know, and you know about guns a man has been given, including personal security, to have an automatic machine gun, I don't want to think if that man with a machine gun is mentally ill, what could happen! The other thing I can say is that by failing to comply with this obligation, the Ministry of Interior has practically become an intruder. This does not speak well for the institution, even more so, it is called upon with quite other functions. I would also like to quote Deputy Prosecutor General Asya Petrova, I repeat the Deputy Prosecutor General Asya Petrova, not some opposition MP who says that the main problem is the lack of a common register of companies and their activities. It is not excluded to do this intentionally. I am troubled by this doubt of hers, and I ask you as quickly as possible to carry out all procedures so that there is no such doubt that something is being done intentionally, and even more so on the part of the Ministry of Interior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u98	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Mr. Minister, you have the opportunity for a doppelganger, will you complete your reply by commenting on the additional questions on Mr. Baychev's reply? You have this opportunity. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'll be brief. Mr. Baychev, the deadline is still not over. I've come to know the measures we've taken. These are procedures that must be carried out by law. The funding is foreseen, so I hope that within the legal period this will be a fact. I can tell you that even now these companies are registered, they have accountability, but it is not automated. With regard to the facts that you have given, if you have specific facts, I will check them and I will give you the result. But the directorates who legally exercise control exercise it at the moment, and I would not say that this activity is out of control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u100	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Marinov is from the MPs Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Anelia Klisarova regarding frequent cases of a new type of phone fraud. Mr. Timchev, you have the floor to develop the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u101	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Recently, the signals from citizens have increased, subject to a new type of phone fraud. We are talking about impulse calls from the country and from abroad in order to accumulate significant amounts on the subscribers' phone accounts of all mobile operators. Our question to you is specific: what will you take to solve this problem? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u102	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Mr. Minister, please answer the question. You have the floor!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u103	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Timchev, Yordanov, Mrs. Klisarova! Attempts to benefit from the so-called impulse numbers under the method of "missed call" from abroad have been spread with different intensity over the past few years. The scheme is expressed in short calls, with different amounts of money charged on the monthly account of the subscribers, whether a voice message is included or a free signal is reported when the call is returned. The calls come from foreign code numbers of different countries: Albania, the Kingdom of Great Britain, the island of Ascension, Paraguay, Ukraine, Haiti, Monaco, Romania, Greece, Nigeria, Congo, Slovenia, Italy, Finland, Lithuania and others. It is assumed that the phone numbers from which calls are made are generated through software. The National Police Directorate at the Ministry of Interior has so far not received any information about such calls from a Bulgarian phone. Following a consultation with the Ministry of Interior information system, it was found that no pre-trial proceedings for telephone fraud under that scheme were initiated from the beginning of 2018 until 26 September 2018. During the same period in the Directorate-General of the National Police, the sector of Fraud has received one signal for receiving fraudulent calls without the citizen being the victim of a crime. An inquiry was sent to the Kingdom of Great Britain, the Island of Ascension, Somalia, Albania and Lithuania in connection with international police cooperation requesting information about the ownership of the number from which the calls were detected. Up to now, answers have only been received from part of the addressees. In addition, upon receiving information on specific telephone numbers from which fraudulent calls are made, mobile operators shall be notified without delay with a view to taking action to limit them under the Law on Electronic Communications. A major tool for dealing with this phenomenon is prevention with a view to raising public awareness. The Ministry of Interior regularly warns and will continue to warn citizens about various schemes of fraudulent calls, including the described scheme. The problem is of public importance and other state institutions related to consumer rights and telecommunications policy should be involved in dealing with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u104	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. For a line? People's representative Mr. Timchev, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u105	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, your answer was very brief. For this kind of modern new fraud, the Ministry should have the resources to outrun the ingenuity of these people dealing with this kind of fraud. This affects a significant part of our country's population, including pensioners who, with their incomes, are in a very surprising situation. In addition to these informational efforts you make to introduce the public, I think you should, especially in small towns, your employees daily or monthly to engage and familiarize people with this. And I say again, maybe you should have some department that anticipates these things and beat the people who deal with this kind of scam. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u106	Thank you, Mr. Timchev. Mr. Secretary? You're not going to use the right to the back. We move on to the next question, which is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. It concerns measures of the Ministry of Interior for effective implementation of the provision of art. 178g of the Road Traffic Act in the event of violation of the provisions of art. 58 of the same and preventing the mass violation of these provisions. Movement and braking in the forced-stop bar, so-called emergency lane. Mr. Gokov, please develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u107	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! Dear Minister, my question may seem insignificant to you, but you know that driving in the emergency lane on the highways leads to very serious accidents, including injuries and deaths. Therefore, the provisions of the Road Traffic Act provide for a driver's prohibition to move or stop in the lane for forced movement or braking, except in the event of an accident or in the case of poor health. Due to the severe consequences in this driving in the emergency lane and the many accidents that have occurred with victims, including made us as National Assembly, as legislators, in 2017 and more precisely in September 2017, to aggravate the fines and administrative penalties on this occasion, as in art. 178g we have foreseen punishment with deprivation of the right to drive a motor vehicle for a period of three months and fine 1000 BGN. a driver who violates this Article or moves in the emergency lane and, where the infringement has been repeated, the penalty shall be the deprivation of the right to drive a motor vehicle for a period of 6 months and a fine of up to 4000 BGN. My question to you is: for the period from 26 September 2017, when this order of the Road Traffic Act enters into force, how many drivers of motor vehicles are imposed sanctions provided for under art. 178g, and how much for driving and stopping in the forced stopbar? What measures have been taken by you and your ministry to effectively implement these provisions in breach of the provisions of art. 58 and prevent the mass violation of these provisions.Move and stop in the forced-stop bar? Mr. Minister, you are a new minister and you must have no bearing on the measures, but I would like to know from you what future measures you will take to prevent this violation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u108	Thank you, Mr. Gokov, for the clarification. Mr. Minister, please come in and answer the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u109	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, to the question you asked: for the period 26 September 2017 september 26, 2018 for violation of art. 58, t. 3 of the Road Traffic Act and on the basis of art. 178g, para. 1 have been punished 199 leaders. I will allow myself from the stands of the National Assembly to recall what these members of the Road Traffic Act say: Art. 58. In the case of driving on the driver's motorway, it is prohibited: to move or stop in the forced stop bar, except in the case of damage to the road vehicle, as well as in the case of health problems of the driver or passengers in the vehicle. Article 178g of the same law states: It is punishable by deprivation of the right to drive a motor vehicle for a period of three months and a fine of 1000 BGN. a driver who moves in the forced stop bar on the motorway without the exceptions under art. 58, t. 3 or in the lane for oncoming traffic on the highway and on the road. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 is carried out again, the penalty is deprivation of the right to drive a motor vehicle for a period of six months and a fine of 4000 BGN............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Until now, the Ministry of Interior has implemented the following. The authorities of the Ministry of Interior with powers to work under the Road Traffic Act and carrying out direct control of the traffic on the motorways shall take account of any case of infringement of the Law established on the spot, including in the event of infringement of art. 58, t. 3 of the Road Traffic Act. In any case, where there are more than two holiday days, weekends in connection with which a temporary organisation of the highway traffic is introduced, the control bodies of the Ministry of Interior shall issue the respective individual administrative acts against the offenders of the Road Traffic Act, including in the event of infringement of Art. 58, t. 3 of the same law. In addition, during the summer season, when the movement of motorways is enhanced, police operations are conducted under the European Network of the Services of the Road Police and in the course of these operations control is ordered for non-management or suspension outside the regulated cases of motor vehicles in the lanes for the forced stopping of motorways. The Ministry of Interior is planning equipment for the staff of the Road Police with automated technical means of control to control the highways in respect of legal provisions, including art. 58, t. 3 of the Road Traffic Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u110	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Gokov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers! Dear Minister of the Interior, thank you for your answer. I'm not gonna tell you what it sounded like, but 199 leaders in a year with this massive violation of my rules seem a little small. I have no idea, and I did not get the impression of your reply to be punished for repeated violation of the provision of art. 58 of the Road Traffic Act. You are aware that this is not the most frightening crime to drive in the emergency lane, but my question is caused by two things. First of all, I ask myself: what is the point of making some heavy provisions, increasing the penalties - BGN 1000, BGN 4000.? On the income of Bulgarians are not small the size of the fines. The removal of the driver's license for three, for six months is also not small, it is even comparable to the use of alcohol, as I recall the penalties. What is the point of having these penalties when we cannot apply them effectively? The second reason for my question was this. There are quite a number of conscientious drivers in the traffic jams in the highway repairs are lining up and waiting. Last week, the 20 km stretch of the highway section of Thrace was about 10 km long, moving at an average speed of probably 10 km per hour, because 10 km we passed them in an hour. Back then, there were more cars in the emergency lane than in the other lane. This causes extreme indignation from other road guides who follow the rules. I think the Ministry of Interior should take some more serious measures. When we have any violations that are a prerequisite for serious accidents, we need to take more measures to prevent them, not just as legislators to raise fines, which has no effect at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u112	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, would you like to supplement your response? You have a chance to do it. Come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u113	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gokov, that this is indeed a serious violation of the Road Traffic Act, which can lead to victims including, you are right. This is currently established with the physical presence of the controlling bodies. Effective countering the infringement will be better when automated video surveillance systems are built to control automatically and generate the relevant fines. To be honest, the resources to cover all road networks are not enough. Police teams operating on the ground for this period are committed to handling road accidents, speed control, traffic control in emergency braking lanes. As a minister, I will work towards looking for a modern method that is applicable and results in other countries to control this type of violations. For the particular case that you mentioned during the traffic jam, I would like to inform you that in relation to the areas where there are repairs, as you know, API is issuing temporary traffic regulation orders. In some of the cases, the emergency lane is excluded and it becomes a lane that is included in the movement, which also requires additional control on our part, because people generally know that it is forbidden and not everyone has informed themselves that at the moment of this section a car can be moved. If you notice, as you travel, so I have ordered, there is already an additional resource of police officers, albeit somewhere with overtime where we have the opportunity, precisely for this: to inform and assist traffic in such narrow sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u114	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question. Is it relevant to the answers of Minister Marinov? No. Let's thank the minister and let him go. Thank you for participating in today's parliamentary control. Procedure, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u115	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister, Dear Members of the Parliamentary Group of BSP! Mr. Chairman, this is my procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u116	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u117	I see that the hall is empty, with the exception of the MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. I call on you to pay attention to this fact and to call on your colleagues to enter the Chamber because it is so that we have heard all kinds of tirads, but while BSP presents the Vision for Bulgaria and only BSP is in the Chamber. In order not to get this ugly picture and people from the screens to watch how management and majority do not function, please call them to report to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. I share the assessment and considerations. I'll take a note. I ask the Quaestors to ask the Members of the National Assembly who are in the couloirs or in the parliamentary rooms to be asked and invited to take their seats in the plenary. Obviously, the problem deserves attention at another time, at another level. Thank you for the note. I'll try to get her where she belongs. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] We continue with questions to Mr. Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy. We will start by asking the MPs Georgi Yordanov Yordanov, Mihail Ivaylov Hristov, Dora Ilieva Yankova, Georgi Yanchev Gokov, Ilian Angelov Timchev and Dragomir Velkov Stoynev. The question is about a strategy of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to compensate for the rise in the prices of bread and goods of primary necessity. You're welcome to develop the question. You have three minutes, Mr. Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u119	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. In recent weeks, we have observed an uncontrolled and unmotivated increase in the price of bread and essential goods. This particularly affects the survival opportunities of the socially weak categories of Bulgarian citizens, especially those with disabilities. The simple analysis, the simple arithmetic account shows that when buying only one bread of BGN 1.20. in an average pension of 180 BGN. to a disabled person, 20% of his pension goes only for the purchase of bread. And where are the funds for the other food products? Since October 1st, as we know, the price of energy carriers has increased. Here I cannot fail to mention the proposed package by Minister Ananiev in case of the need for hospital treatment, when 15%, which is about 100 BGN, should be paid by these people if necessary to enter the hospital. My question to you is: is there a strategy for your Ministry to compensate for this increase in the prices of the main food products, I repeat, in order for the physical survival of this category of socially weak Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u120	Thank you, Mr. Yordanov. Dear Minister, the procedure provides five minutes for an answer, as we are in a questioning procedure. You have the floor to answer, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u121	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Yordanov, Mrs. Minister! The management program of the Government of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period 2017 - 2021 focuses on achieving a higher standard of living and sustainable growth of incomes. In 2017, the average salary reported a two-digit growth of 11.8%. The leading importance was the private sector, where the average wage reported an increase of 12.7%. The dynamics of the indicator in the public sector also accelerated to 9.2% and contributed to the increase in income. In the context of positive price dynamics in the country, the purchasing power of the average wage continued to increase, with its real growth rate deflected with the consumer price index accelerated to 9.6%. In August 2018, prices of most food products and soft drinks, according to national statistics, remained at the level of the previous month. The prices of the following foodstuffs have increased: flour by 0.6%, white bread by 1.9%, bread by 1.5%, type and rye bread by 0.7%. Annual inflation reported for August 2018 compared to August 2017 was 3.5%, with food prices and soft drinks prices in August 2018 increasing by 2.9%, on bread and cereals by 2.6%, given that inflation of 3.5% in August 2018 compared to August 2017 is well below the average rate of wage increase of workers, respectively 7,1% and 8,2% in the first and second quarter on an annual basis this year. This means that real employment income is growing ahead of us. An additional positive effect on income also has the growth of the minimum wage. From 1 January 2018 it is BGN 510. and, compared to 2017, there was an increase of 10.9%. The increase in the minimum wage will contribute to increasing the vital level of the least paid workers and reducing the risk of poverty among workers. The programme of the government and the medium-term budget forecast provides for the minimum wage to increase and reach the end of the mandate of 650 BGN next year. The increase in pensions by 3.8% from 1 July 2018 also compensates for inflation. At this stage, estimates show that from 1 July 2019 pensions will be increased by 5.7%, which also precedes the growth of forecast inflation. The minimum amount of retirement and age pensions and the minimum amounts of other pensions for employment for the period from 1 July 2017 to 1 July 2018 have been increased by nearly 29%. It is a permanent practice every year for Easter and Christmas to pay additional amounts to pensions of pensioners with the lowest income. I would like to emphasise that in the market economy, the dynamics of commodity prices are the result of many factors, including those regulated by international markets and not directly linked to state policy. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy does not have functional responsibilities or competence to take an opinion on the findings made by you on uncontrollable and unexplained price hikes, I quote, but in its work it is responsible for the changes that would adversely affect the lives of Bulgarian citizens, especially the risk social groups. In this regard, continuous monitoring and analytical examination of the inflation processes in the country, including with regard to the main foodstuffs, shall be carried out. The data provided by the National Statistical Institute at this time clearly reflect that the rise in prices and the existence of inflation is the result of a positive movement of the main macroeconomic factors, but in order to try to find the right solution, we must look for the causes, factors and opportunities for countering and prevention. In this sense, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to fulfil its commitment to people who themselves could not cope with providing their essential vital needs. The social assistance policy pursued aimed at the most vulnerable social groups ensures their protection in the best way within the available resources, based on specific social work in each case. From this point of view, it cannot and should not be a fundamental and determining element of income policy, but it is important to support the achievement of its objectives and priorities, including as a factor for limiting the adverse impact of the rise in prices of goods and services of the first need. The establishment of a balance between public needs and budgetary resources so as to achieve a better focus on social assistance in the most effective possible spending of public financial resources in support of the incomes of the most vulnerable social groups is a common national priority and only by consolidating our common efforts and cooperation with citizens, businesses and social partners can we increase the efficiency of this mechanism. In this regard, our approach is to monitor the country's social economic processes and their impact on people's everyday lives by betting on measures that have a sustainable character and are essential for achieving the objectives set. On the basis of this approach, the legal framework of social assistance is improved so as to ensure better protection for people who need State support. The latest changes related to the increase in the amount of guaranteed minimum income by more than 15% since the beginning of this year have created objective conditions for extending the scope of aided persons and families and increasing the amount of aid. I would like to stress here that, in response to the current situation on the basis of the agreement that was agreed yesterday between the government and the nationally represented employees' organisations, the funds for targeted heating aid will be increased by 40 million. BGN, which represents 50% of their planned budget amount for this year, which is 80 million, and this measure will compensate for the increase in prices of energy carriers and other goods in the chain, including the essential goods to which your question is specifically addressed. I'll be able to make further arguments later. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u122	You'll have three minutes. I wanted to ask you then to further your thought. Thank you for understanding the procedure. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova, for supplementary questions and attitude. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u123	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Minister! Mr. Minister, you are in your role to share the program, the observations, the increase, but we are in a qualitatively new situation since mid-August. Since mid-August we have the dynamics of an increase in the price of grain. August, September, is already October, there is even a large increase, more dynamic and shocking. You know that this increase in the price of grain is a basis for pricing almost all goods from the food complex. It is about processing, wholesale and retail prices. In parallel, we know that in Bulgaria from household incomes around 32% go for food, while in the European Union there are 12 All over the Pazardzhik region, in Batak, in September, in Plovdiv, in Sofia, if in early September the increase was 15%, then in early October we have a 50% increase in bread prices. And that money takes income from pensions and salaries. What does this mean for us as MPs? We have a great concern.. there are talk of increased electricity prices, the water is increased, along with this price package for food along the grain will increase and we are actually in the spiral of inflation. People are asking us MPs, so from here on out of the stands, we want you to illuminate this process. Since the end of August, September, October, the government of which you are a member, how have you analyzed everything that is happening in Bulgaria, and what are the analyses and measures you have taken? This one first. And secondly, since there will be an enormous amount of income taken away from people, how will they be compensated? Maybe that's the first conclusion for those risk groups. Mr. Minister, you represent social policy. The people are getting more and more impoverished. The wood has increased, the bread has increased. There's a lot of problems. You say: "This does not concern my work. " "You must be one of the pioneers in the cabinet, want and place this topic, be on the side of the people and compensate for impoverishment, propose measures to compensate for impoverishment. Here are the two questions I want you to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, according to the procedure you have three minutes to answer the additional questions and supplement your basic answer. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u125	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, only in addition to what I said in your reply is that in terms of the poorest groups of the population there is a programme that is an operational programme within the European Union to help the poorest groups of the population with food of the first need. This programme covers a large number of target groups - about 340 000 - are those who receive the so-called food packages - which will also be received by those in need of basic food during this autumn. The other measure, which is being implemented successfully and is expanding more and more, is providing a warm lunch in so-called public dining rooms for the poorest part of the population. On the basis of contracts concluded with municipalities, this measure covers about 50,000 persons. I would like to stress once again that, in response to this trend, it is up-to-date, literally since yesterday, which you are talking about, about raising prices, where there are different factors, but the main thing is the increase in prices of energy carriers, which have been announced since 1 October by the State Energy and Water Regulatory Commission, especially gas, heat and so on. Although the target heating aid is calculated on the basis of the price of electricity, which has not been changed at the moment, it is as a reaction to what we have literally been seeing for several days. The new prices and the increase became known on 1 October, there will be an increase in energy aid funds, as they are called, or target heating aid, with which the mechanism for the allocation of this additional amount is to be developed as soon as possible, which amounts to 40 million and thus to compensate for and assist additional part of those in need to compensate for the increase in energy prices, because they are a factor for price increases, along with other factors for which you spoke This is a measure that has not been applied. This is a measure that strengthens this instrument "the heating aid requested', which has been in operation since 2008. It is aimed at and in response to this increase in energy prices and the expected increase as a result of prices in the chain. This I could answer as a concrete, already committed by the government on the basis of talks with the nationally represented employees' organisations. The Ministry of Labour and the Agency for Social Assistance will soon develop this mechanism for allocating this additional resource so as to respond adequately to the situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u126	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are any of the importers gonna take any chances? Mr. Gokov, come in. You have two minutes to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u127	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! Mr. Minister, I will not comment on your response to the substance. I do not think that this is exactly what we wanted as an answer, but I would like to tell you that poverty is an economic condition where both money and goods are missing and services of primary need that allow people to live in acceptable conditions. These are: food, water, education, health services and shelter. I'm not saying this about you because you're a proven social expert and you know these things. I'm saying this for the MPs, even though they're missing in the room. I would not be wrong to say that much of the Bulgarians do not have enough food and quality, water, education, health services, cozy and warm home. And the bread of the Bulgarians is sacred and irreplaceable. And the word "bread" has, in many cases, taken the meaning of food. We also have a saying: "If there is bread, everything is there. "The increase of its price along with the usual increase in household spending in winter by about 20%, the increased prices of gas, electricity and their influence in the chain of goods are a reason to think about an adequate compensation in order to survive the socially weak Bulgarians. There are many existing definitions of what poverty is, which leads to significant differences in understanding the term in different countries. For the same reason, a common definition of poverty has not yet been created and, without one, this is an excuse to speculate, as the Prime Minister does. I will quote his words to you when he said: "The Bulgarian saw himself with money and went to the border with Greece in resorts. And now comes the question: is the Bulgarian rich who can afford to buy bread and some other items of necessity, but it costs him more than 30% of the monthly income? The second largest feather in the expenditures of the Bulgarian, notice, are funds allocated to the maintenance of the apartment, for water, electricity, gas, heating, heating and other fuels. And that's about 15%. And for health the Bulgarian divides 5.4%. And now calculate how much finance he has left on the Bulgarian for his leisure, culture and rest. If you can't, I will tell you: the Bulgarian in both statistics and research devotes to leisure and activities 5.8%. And this is for the average Bulgarian. What about the others, where they live below the poverty line, for those more than a third of all Bulgarians?! The average person from the household Bulgarian eats 88 kg of bread per year. That's about 160, 200 breads, and that's his daily bread. When uncontrollably, in general, its price increases inexplicably and as managers, you do not have a sustainable concept of an adequate increase in income, but only a single, chaotic and populist push for the increase, and it is unclear whether for groups of people who really need it, then the situation becomes heated. We have a National Strategy to reduce poverty and promote social inclusion by 2020. At my discretion, it is a good document, another question, unfortunately, how it is applied. Thus, people remain with the feeling that even when supporting risk groups, the king is rather single, chaotic, and populist pushes rather than a slender and fair compensation system. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm coming, Mr. Chairman. At least we have a consensus on the need for measures to affect risk social groups, whose characteristics are specific....................... and households with a large number of children, single parents and so on. It is a good thing that you and the trade unions have a vision to increase energy support funds by about 40 million. lv. It is not good that you are not clear how these funds will be distributed and whether they will reach those who need them most. I suppose you realize that you are the Minister of Labour and Social Policy in the poorest country and you are facing the challenge, Mr. Minister, to combat the current general feeling in the Bulgarian for the inadequate amount of support and unfair distribution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u128	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. That concludes the discussion of asking. Before we move on to the next question, I would like to inform you that, as a result of the measures, the situation in the Chamber has not changed decisively, but there are representatives of two other parliamentary groups. With this, I do not want to withdraw my promise that I will raise the issue at the Presidential Council next week where his decision is to be found. Thanks for the remark, Mr. Chenchev. We're continuing with parliamentary control. Question from the National Representative Violeta Zheleva and the National Representative Georgi Gokov on targeted heating aid, changes in the context of energy poverty. Here you are, Mrs. Jeleva. Question to Minister Petkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u129	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister, Dear Minister! Energy poverty has been an acute and growing problem in Bulgaria for years. It is recognized as one of the most significant social problems, with negative prospects for the future. A study, including from the European Organisation for Energy Poverty, shows that over 30% of Bulgarian households cannot afford the luxury of keeping their home warm. Three out of every ten Bulgarians are struggling to live normally because they are energy poor are unable to afford the most basic levels of energy for adequate heating, cooking, lighting and more. This winter will be one of the worst for the socially weak in the expected appreciation of heat. In the previous question you mentioned the topic and said there will be an increase in the budget for social payments for heating. I do not think that this will be very significant, given that the poor, the socially weak, who live below the poverty threshold of BGN 321, are nearly 2 million and the effect will not be very big. Therefore, it is good to think about a long-term policy to reduce energy poverty in Bulgaria. In this regard, my question to you is: what is your definition of energy poverty in the context of Bulgarian conditions and when will we have an official definition of this concept? Given the constant increase in energy prices along with the level of household income, what are the criteria by which you define energy poor Bulgarians? Do you also foresee when the increase in heat prices should be taken into account and taken into account prior to the granting of the target heating aid? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u130	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Mr. Minister, please come in for an explanation on the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u131	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zheleva, in the context of the latest Commission decision on energy and water regulation to increase gas and heat prices, it was expected to raise the question of so-called energy poverty again. The position of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has always been that this is a complex topic which cannot and should not be solved only with targeted heating aid, especially that there is no accepted and clear definition. Unfortunately, despite our calls for the launch of such a public debate, after which to reach a generally acceptable definition of energy poverty, taking into account the specific conditions in Bulgaria, it has not yet started. In the public domain, assessments are made on the basis of models and characteristics applied in other countries and under other conditions, such as the 10% limit of household income for energy costs, which are no longer applied in the country concerned. It should be noted that energy poverty is not only about heating people. This includes energy efficiency such as thermal insulation of the dwelling, efficiency of the appliances used and so on. It is therefore necessary to make a thorough review in determining the elements of energy poverty and the problems related to them in the Bulgarian conditions. In this way, the right decisions in competence will be found. Defining energy poverty on a government principle will not lead to finding the most accurate answers for solving this complex issue. Of course, by appreciating our responsibility and commitment to people, we are willing and willing to contribute. However, it should be borne in mind that the legitimate objective of social aid, including target heating aid, is not to overcome poverty, including so-called energy poverty, but to ensure that the essential vital needs of the most vulnerable social groups cannot be addressed without the aid of the State. Aid is therefore only a means of dulling poverty's sharpness, but not a means of removing from poverty. It is also important to note that the target heating aid is not aid for energy use of the most deprived but is a means of ensuring the heating of these people for a certain period of five months, which is in line with the main objective of the Social Assistance Act. The Ministry of Labour and Social Policy consistently conducts targeted policies for ensuring social protection of people, raising their income and living level, supporting the most vulnerable social groups, developing the social economy and social inclusion. In this sense, our activity is an important element in the common set of measures and policies that affect other socio-economic spheres and areas to combat poverty phenomenon, including so-called energy poverty. The provision of targeted heating aid to the most vulnerable groups is only one part of this common objective. The mechanism for granting the target heating aid over the years has undergone many changes, including the supply and type of fuel used. The practice and the desire of consumers, which has always been particularly important for us, has imposed the current model. It enables each person and family receiving assistance to make their choice on how to heat up and change it accordingly within the heating season if there are events that require it. This mechanism ensures equal treatment of all aided persons and families, which is a basic principle and requirement in the Social Assistance Act. At the same time, there is a change in the Regulation on the terms and conditions for granting targeted aid and your considerations regarding price reporting and other energy carriers will be discussed. Finally, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will continue to work actively to improve the target energy support mechanism, and I am convinced that, as so far, together with the social partners, we will find the best solutions in the interests of the people who need the support of the state. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u132	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Zheleva, Mr. Gokov, do you have a line? Mr. Gokov has declared a wish. Come in, you have the floor for a reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u133	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Ministers! Dear Mr. Petkov, thank you for your answer. The question we asked with colleague Jeleva, and the answer, is in the context of our questioning. Perhaps this is a problem related mainly to the problem of the Bulgarians. Perhaps it was good of us to challenge debates on these issues and everyone to say their views in order to have an insight into how the ruling majority deals with this problem and how the opposition deals with it in order to take adequate measures. In your reply I expected to hear, for example, that the Ministry did an analysis of the impact of the increase in energy prices on the people, on the Bulgarians, especially on vulnerable groups of Bulgarians. I didn't hear you do that kind of analysis. Then the question comes: how will you distribute this agreed money with the trade unions that Minister Goranov announced yesterday? By the way, why is Mr. Goranov announcing such things without consulting the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy? It's weird for me, maybe not for you, but it's weird for me. And another question, we asked you: Do we have a definition of energy poverty, energy poverty in Bulgaria? I didn't hear in your response to have one or define these cases, except that you mentioned the ten percent if more of the household's income goes to heating are energy poor. If we don't have that definition, I don't know how we do the math and how we help these people. Winter is coming and we have to take into account how the Bulgarians will endure the heating season in the context of the constantly increasing prices of the energy carriers, the consequences of energy poverty, which are obvious cold, wet housing and so on. I will not speak, because they are related to problems that occur due to this energy poverty and this cold standing. Within two minutes, such serious social problems could be difficult to solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u134	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Minister, you're welcome to complete the answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u135	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, thank you for putting this issue back to the actuality of the issue of debate on the topic of Energy Efficiency. And in the answer to the question, I confirmed the ministry's readiness, and that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy has put and will raise this question, and will cause this debate, taking into account the complex nature and measures in terms of combating energy poverty. With regard to the target heating aid, I will once again confirm that their purpose is more modest, more limited to support those in need for heating during these five months of the winter season. When allocating the additional resources to be allocated from the budget for this purpose, this is the nature and purpose of the targeted aid that will also take into account the already existing increase in the prices of some of the energy carriers, which has been declared energy and water regulation by the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u136	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. That was the last question for you. Thank you for your participation in the parliamentary control today. We continue with questions to Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is from the National Representative Georgi Gokov on the implementation of the provisions of Decree No 4 of 14 September 2004 of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works on the terms and conditions for the accession of consumers and on the use of water supply and sewerage systems. [[Relations, excitement.]] I don't understand what caused the noise and the excitement. Please ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u137	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, first of all, congratulations on your appointment. I don't know if it's good, you'll see a lot of rush, but whatever. In my reception room, Madam Secretary, I get dozens of signals. The question I may have asked is nothing new, but there are many citizens who complain about the unfair reading of their water. According to them it is unfair, according to those who charge water, it is fair, because this right gives them the Regulation. I will quote it: Ordinance 4 of 14 September 2004 of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works on the terms and conditions of consumer accession and on the use of water supply and sewerage systems. I have detailed in the question what the problem is and now in two minutes it will be difficult to develop it in full, but it is that people are affected and they are thousands in a medium-sized city that remain with a sense of unfair treatment towards them. When the amount of water they consume is reported on the individual water meter in their residential building, the sum of these reports differs from the total water meter, that amount People believe that the reason for this difference is the theft of water, not counted by individual water meters by users in the building, which they cannot in any way prevent and detect. Madam Minister, my questions are: are you familiar with this mass phenomenon in absolutely all Bulgarian settlements where there are buildings with plumbing deviations with more than one user, differences in the report of the common water meter and the sum of the reports of the individual water meters of each small, medium or large residential building? Secondly, is there a practice for water operators to appoint committees at the request of the victims, as provided for in the Ordinance? Once again, why do we call them petitioners, we have to call them declarators. Thirdly, do you not think that this regulation needs a change at least in the whole art. 32 and especially in para. 5, with changes in the direction to automatically change the obligation of the water operators to establish a difference in the reported amount of water on the total water meter and the sum of the reports on the individual water meters greater than twenty percent, to determine the reasons for this? If within three consecutive months the operator has not identified the reason and has not prescribed its removal, it shall not be entitled to allocate the difference to the general subscribers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u138	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Dear Minister, you have the opportunity to answer the questions. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u139	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Gokov, thank you for this question, it is timely. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works initiated the development of a draft Ordinance amending and supplementing Regulation No 4, which dates back to 2004 on the terms and conditions of consumer accession and on the use of water supply and sewerage systems. As a result of the work of the established Interdepartmental Group, a draft regulation, which is published on the Ministry's website, is available for consideration and advice on the proposal. In relation to the obligations of the owners of the floor property and their risk management capabilities for the maintenance and operation of building water installations, the limit to which the operator operates the common networks and facilities of the water systems is defined. Currently, water operators have practice at the request of consumers in the case of identified differences between the report of the total water meter and the sum of individual water meters greater than the specified amount in the regulation to participate in committees to determine the reasons for them. In the event of a technical and operational problem, the building water installation, which is owned by consumers, as well as in the theft of water from the internal installation, is responsible for taking action to establish it themselves, and the operator may participate in establishing it as a specialised person who has the expertise to identify and assist in the possible causes. The new texts propose significant changes in the scope of the reporting and distribution of spent water quantities on floor property, where this is the operator's commitment. The proposal in the regulation is that the amount of water consumed for total consumption in the building should be distributed equally for each water supply site when all users are provided with metrology-friendly water meters and provide periodic access. In this case, the floor ownership by decision of the General Assembly is given the opportunity to be independent and to determine the specifics of the water consumption in the building and, in accordance with it, to manage the distribution of water between the individual consumers in principle, which they consider appropriate, based on owned ideal parts, the number of inhabitants or in proportion to individual consumption. This is a much fairer model than the previous way of reporting and due to the fact that both privileges and liability are distributed equally among all users of the service and not only to the correct and those who actually take into account indicators of waste water. Where there are users in the building who, despite the requirement to install an individual water meter within a one-year period, have not registered one or have not admitted the operator for a real physical report in the last 12 months, then those users will be deemed not to have provided measurement and participate jointly in the distribution of the amount of water that has been spent in the building but cannot be measured. In addition, I note that the draft new regulation sets out the framework which we believe is to the maximum extent applicable in the current conditions and protects consumers [[the President signals that time has run out]] who are correct and responsible for their property.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u140	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Mr. Gokov, you have two minutes to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for your tolerance for allowing an extension of time, because this issue is really serious and many people are affected. You've described the matter as timely, and I'm calling it a late question because it's been a long time. I have to tell you that I collect a lot of negatives on myself from people who come to the reception room and complain about this. I am pleased that there will be changes in Regulation No 4, unfortunately, I have not met them, I will promote that there is a new regulation and can be given an opinion on it by all interested parties on the website of the Ministry. However, it concerns me now what you are saying once again that, in the case of such quantities of water established, differences from individual and general group water meters, consumers themselves have an obligation to deal with the problem. First of all, older residential buildings are home to elderly people. Perhaps if we continue to reason in this direction, we will come to the question of adequacy and the possibility of implementing the Law on Floor Property. In all likelihood you will not be able to answer me, but to tell me: how many such requests to investigate the difference have been received in the water operators, because I argue that on the general background of many cases of such differences there are very few complaints submitted, and not because people do not complain against it, but because they cannot be organised to submit such a signal and such a request to the operator. The problems are very serious. Hopefully, with the new ordinance, you'll change them. I will monitor what is happening with this and I will tell the people who are coming to my receptions, but even if I don't do this, I assure you that people will not accept it. I've had some young people come to my reception room who are more proactive than adults, and they've filed, I think, a case in the Administrative Court, or I don't know where, against the operators. It is not normal to leave the initiative to the people, to the victims, because it can also come to a fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u142	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. You have an opportunity for a doppelganger, Mrs. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u143	Dear Mr. Gokov, when developing the regulation, which is uploaded for public consultation on the website of the Ministry, took part the Ombudsman of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Commission for Consumer Protection, the Commission for Energy and Water Regulatory, the State Agency for Metrology and Technical Supervision, the Union of Water Operators, the Association for Regulation of Relations in Floor Property, the Bulgarian National Association In conclusion, I would say that we will adopt all the opinions and proposals we receive during the public discussion. One month's term has all the users and you as MPs, to be active, to make suggestions. All proposals will be discussed carefully, and those of them, which the working group thought were good, will regulate relations with consumers in the water services, will be reflected in the final version of the regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u144	Thank you, Madam Secretary. We come to a question from the MP Stefan Burgeev about the state of road marking and road signs in the region of Pleven. Here you go, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u145	Dear Mr. Notev, dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I have the following question to you: what is the current state of road marking and road signs of Republican roads in the Pleven region, and what is planned as adequate and timely action in view of the upcoming autumn-winter season? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u146	Thank you for your brief but clear question, Mr. Burgeev. Come in for an answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u147	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Burgeev, the activities for laying and renewing the horizontal marking on the Republican roads, as well as for the delivery and installation of road signs are awarded by the Road Infrastructure Agency on the basis of contracts following public procurement. The contractors shall work under the terms of the financial framework of the programme for the maintenance of each calendar year under a limited financial resource. Where the road sections provide for rehabilitation and repair activities, they shall be carried out under an approved technical design, including an organisation of movement with the corresponding horizontal markings and road signs. In view of the expiry of the contract for production, delivery and installation of road signs with constant variable vertical signal sizes of the Republican roads in the territory of the North-West region, including the areas: Vidin, Vratsa, Montana, Lovech and Pleven, Road Infrastructure Agency. In 2017 on sections of the Republican road network in the territory of Pleven region were installed road signs with a total value of 86 797 BGN. with VAT, their distribution is 1st grade.. 18 459 BGN.; II-th class.. 11 678 BGN.; III-th class.. 56 197 BGN. Overall, the state of road signs on first and second classes and newly rehabilitated third-class roads is good, but there is a need to renew a significant part of the existing signs and place new ones where they are missing. District Road Management Pleven has stated the need for replacement or filling of the sign farm by drawing up a quantitative account of the necessary costs, amounting to BGN 96 523. After selecting a contractor, action will be taken on the implementation and provision of the necessary financial resources. With regard to the horizontal marking on the Republican roads in this territory, acting at the moment is a contract with an elected contractor in the North-West Region. It is 4 years old and will end June 2019. In 2017 was renewed the axial and part of the horizontal marking of all Republican roads first and second class on the territory of Pleven district, namely the road Pleven A new horizontal marking has also been placed on sections of third-class roads where partial rehabilitation has been carried out. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'll finish the answer to the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u148	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Here's a line, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u149	Although I was prepared for such an answer, I will keep the promise to myself, as you are a very new minister and I will not hysterize the problem, but I will try with very simple words to explain to you. You, with half-mouth and what is written, have noted that there are significant gaps, gaps and irregularities of the state of the horizontal and vertical road marking. I'll put it simply. A huge part of the road signs are uncleaned by shrub vegetation. My assessment, as well as the residents I talk to, and I often talk to the inhabitants of the settlements in the region, is that this is about 80%. In order not to go into technical details written by officials in ministries and so on, I will simply explain that up to five, eight meters there is no visibility for large signs and signposts. That's 80% of the region. It's about vertical marking. On the second-class, third-class and other roads is also a terrible problem lack of marking. The desire of my and the citizens is to find a way to put the horizontal marking of the main roads to a fourth-class road network at least the middle line to be the starting point. Very human and responsible, I ask you on behalf of hundreds of citizens. We are in the Danube plain and a huge problem are, Madam Minister, the mists. There are many people of all political backgrounds who travel to work. These are teachers who teach at the district center, health workers, nurses, nurses and so on. You said that about 100 thousand leva should be for vertical marking and maybe another 50 thousand for horizontal marking. It is funny to talk about such money in order to secure, secure and calm the lives of the citizens of Pleven. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u150	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u151	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Burgeev, you are absolutely right that road safety should be a priority. I assure you that road safety will be one of the main priorities of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and Government. I would like to add to my reply that the horizontal road marking, which was performed in 2017, is worth BGN 520 thousand. Before the start of the winter season, the centre line of the first-class and second-class roads, as well as the busiest third-class roads, will be renewed to ensure safe conditions for movement on the territory of Pleven district. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u152	Thank you, dear Minister. The third question is from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov about the state of the second-class road II-21 of the Republican Road Network Ruse. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u153	Dear Madame Chairman, dear Minister, Madame Minister, colleagues! Dear Minister, the residents of the town of Marten and Sandrovo once again expressed their concern about the condition of the road Ruse "Silistra." The risk intersections to the two settlements of the town of Marten and the village of Sandrovo create a lot of problems and are with frequent accidents. Our questions to you are: is your office aware of this problem, and what measures have you taken at the time to resolve it? Have checks been carried out on the presence of the required road signs and marking for these intersections in relation to the prevention of road accidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u154	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. For a response the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Mrs. Petya Avramova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u155	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Road II-21 Ruse is rehabilitated under the Project "Transit Roads V " Lot 19. The total length of the section, renovated under the Programme, is 93 km, and on the territory of the district of Ruse the section is 23 km. The intersection for the town of Marten falls within section I of the Project, the intersection for the village of Sandrovo is at km 9+688 and does not fall within the scope of a lot. Lot 19 was granted a permit for use on 18 January 2012. A permanent movement organisation was introduced after the completion of the rehabilitation according to an approved project agreed with the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. Road II-21 on the territory of Ruse district is in good operational condition. The employees of Regional Road Management Ruse, together with representatives of the road support company for the district, carry out systematic inspections of the sections of the Republican Road Network, including on road II-21 Ruse. Where problems have been identified, they shall take the necessary measures to eliminate them. Between 2017 and 2018 on the Republican roads in the territory of Ruse district for vertical alarm and horizontal marking, including for renewal the marking of the pedestrian paths, were implemented activities worth 199 thousand. BGN 756. with VAT. According to the Regional Road Management data, Ruse, at the two intersections of the town of Marten and the village of Sandrovo, the vertical signal is without missing signs, and the horizontal marking is in very good condition, it was renewed in 2017. It is planned that before the beginning of the new winter season a new marking should be placed on road II-21 Ruse "Silistra" along its length. There is currently cutting of shrubs and trees in the dividing line between the two sails. Given the fact that this time it is used to wait for heavy goods vehicles before leaving Bulgaria via the Danube Bridge, very often there is pollution of the waitresses, and the regional road management annually entrusts the execution of a barn despite its limited budget. According to the available financial resource for the road, care is taken for current and winter maintenance. The removal of damage to the flooring, machine mowing, landscaping and so on has been completed. I should point out that no sections with the concentration of accidents have been identified for road II-21 in a committee conducted with a representative of the Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior. In view of this, the experts consider that additional signs are not to be installed on this road, as the existing movement organisation fulfils its purpose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u156	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Milkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u157	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister Avramova, I understand from your answer that the Ministry has no problem. The road is wonderful, the accidents are no more than normal for our region, but according to those living on the ground, the situation is not like that. If you compare the car crashes for the town of Marten and the village of Sandrovo with the crashes on the road Ruse "White," there are probably no excess rates. First of all, let me explain to you that there are two intersections for Martin. What citizens are looking at is the second intersection for Martin, where there is no tape for the cars turning towards the village. Coming cars from Silistra, moving at high speed, often cause traffic accidents. I've pulled out in the last few months, but I'm not gonna quote you, severe car crashes with the same murder site on the road Ruse, Tutrakan, Silistra. Mayors of the town of Marten and the village of Sandrovo say now that the issue has become highly publicized that they have repeatedly written reports to the state and to the Ministry about the same problem, that is, it has not been invented by us, and the mayors of the settlements have repeatedly signalled the state on this issue. People from the town of Marten and the village of Sandrovo said that if urgent measures are not followed to properly regulate the intersections, they will go to protests. The bad thing is that this is just another topic that we ask questions about, and people have either already gone out to protest or they say they're going to go out to protest because they learned that when they yell, the system starts to work. I wish you as a new minister to make the system operational, not reacting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u158	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. For the coat, Mrs. Secretary? There won't be. We should thank Minister Avramova for participating in today's parliamentary control. Next are questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests. First will ask the people representative Svetla Bachvarova. The question is regarding compliance with the requirements of the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for awarding the implementation of activities in the forestry areas of state and municipal property and the use of wood and non-woody forest products. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u159	Dear Madam President, ministers, honourable Members! My question relates to compliance with the requirements of the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for the award of activities in forest areas. As is known, the Forest Act has no implementing rules, but it is therefore the regulations that give the main parameters for governance in the sector and control over the implementation of the activities in this extremely important subsector in the country. Also, the Forest Act is not covered by the Public Procurement Act, which means that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is responsible for what is being carried out with the procurement procedures. In the said regulation, the main objectives and principles that are laid down is that it guarantees publicity, transparency, freedom, fair competition in the conduct of procedures. The specific question topic is related to the state of the procedures carried out in 2018 for the conclusion of timber mining contracts suffered by biotic and abiotic factors. In this regard, I would like to say that at least since 2014, such wood has been harvested. The amount of harvested wood is between a million, a million and two hundred thousand cubic meters and therefore procedures have been carried out under the Ordinance, but in 2018 there is a difference. Therefore, my question is: are the requirements of the Regulation complied with and how much wood is obtained by enterprises where wood is damaged by biotic and abiotic factors? Is there a natural disaster in the municipalities where problems have been identified? Are there contracts signed on the basis of art. 27 of the Ordinance, suggesting direct award and not auctioning? What is their number and respectively the size of the harvested wood? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u160	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. For a response the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Mr. Rumen Porozhanov. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u161	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, in the first months of the management of the management team of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forests is focused on taking immediate and effective measures to absorb damaged coniferous wood in order to limit the rate of spread of the corals in the forest areas and maintain their health status. In this context, a crisis headquarters was established in September 2017 to reduce damage to coniferous forests and meetings at which progress has been taken into account and reported from the ongoing monitoring of forest health and absorption of damaged mass. I also had the opportunity in previous meetings to be responsible for the serious condition of the growing problem with the coroid in 2017 in the forests of Bulgaria. It was found from the analysis that four main possibilities for the accelerated utilisation of damaged wood in 2018, with a share of 75%, were the conclusion of timber mining contracts under art. 27 of the Ordinance, namely, without a procedure. State forest enterprises strictly comply with the provisions of the Ordinance, including for wood damaged by biotic and abiotic factors. The amount of wood harvested from the beginning of 2018 to the present time, including damaged wood by enterprises, is as follows: South-Eastern State enterprise................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ Only in the Southern Central State Enterprise of Smolyan, specific orders of the district governors of the districts of Smolyan and Kardzhali, which announced on 4 March 2015 a distress situation on the territory of these districts in relation to the fallen wet snow and strong wind which led to the closure of Republican, municipal, forest roads from downed numerous trees, caused and interrupted the supply of numerous settlements. The situation was abolished on 16 March 2015, again with orders from the district governors. A similar disaster occurred in January this year, on the territory of Smolyan Municipality, when a hurricane wind rooted out and knocked down a number of trees, resulting in an interruption in the power supply of settlements and closed roads on the territory of the municipality. In this regard, the mayor of Smolyan Municipality, by his order, declared a state of disaster at eight o'clock on 18 January, which lasted until 5.30 p.m. on 19 January this year. In view of the significant reduction in the time limits for the start of work in wood plantations, the territorial divisions of the enterprises in which wood damage from biotic and abiotic factors has been detected shall assign the yield according to art. 27 of the Ordinance, without conducting an open competition or negotiation, following a prescription as required by the Ordinance, of the respective forest protection station or regional forestry directorate. In 2018, in the order of art. 27 of the Ordinance, out of the six state-owned enterprises, a total of 1500 contracts have been concluded for the extraction of 555 thousand ccs damaged by biotic and abiotic wood factors, which represents 15% of the total implementation of wood so far this year. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u162	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions Prof. Bachvarova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u163	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The information was detailed. From what I've been able to write and what can be calculated, you can see that over two million cubic meters of wood is affected by the factors of biotic and abiotic. The use of art. 27 for the first time appeared in 2018 as an opportunity for realization of this wood, but there the requirements of art. Twenty-seven is two. Firstly, an urgent limitation of fires, natural disasters and production accidents. However, at the same time, it is pointed out that all activities must therefore be carried out within a period of not more than one month. The information and contracts sent to me by companies affected by the implementation of this procedure indicate that the contracts are not executed in one month, but go for three-four-five-six months and are constantly annexed, where the requirements of art. 27 are not respected. And my second question, which I would like to ask, is still related to the Ordinance and the requirement in art. 9b to be published on the website of state-owned enterprises, fully complete information on the contracts concluded and those which comply with those contracts accordingly. Unfortunately, I did not find any such information on the page of any state-owned enterprise, I only found the requests or procedures in which the necessary procedure for the award of this activity relating to the absorption of wood was announced. My two specific questions are: when preparing the references, have you been given any consideration to whether these contracts are within the time limits laid down in art. 27 and publicity in terms of their realization?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u164	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u165	Once again, I would like to stress that the competitions fully comply with the requirement to have a prescription of the respective forest protection station and regional forestry directorate. The problem with the Koreans, you know very well, part of your parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, were invited to the meetings of the Crisis Headquarters, more than three million were the cubes that were affected by the Koreans. What we can take into account right now is that the process is under control, yes, there are residual stains that are still being cleared, but the process is being contained. We have problems here and there in private forests and here and there in municipal forests. Undoubtedly this was the instrument for the urgent entry and destruction of contaminated wood, because the infected wood at the moment, you know very well that at the moment when the food eater destroys the stain, it is automatically transferred aside and this leads to consequences that become difficult to control. So when using this tool, perhaps not everywhere they have managed within one month of entry, because there are bigger spots that need to be destroyed. I'm sorry that I can't answer you for the publicity of the publication of the contracts, but I'm committed to checking and, if there's a problem, to put it away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u166	Thank you, dear Minister. For your treatment Professor Bachvarova, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u167	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! When I was introduced to the problems of wood mining in terms of forests that were affected and affected by biotic and abiotic factors, I was impressed by the fact that the use of art. 27, that is, without any procedure, it creates a number of practices, especially for companies that are not sufficiently close to those who decide to award procedures. Because if the territories in which these activities are to be carried out are announced on the website of the State enterprise concerned, then the forestry undertaking invites the companies concerned to tender, then by an order received by the forestry undertakings in the first month of the seventh month, the process becomes and is transferred mainly to the directors of the state enterprises themselves. The fact that wood harvested in this order, including the categories of large and medium, not only are not sold without auction or competition, but by price signature of the companies carrying out the respective production. That is why many of the companies in the sector are worried that such procedures, which are neither urgent, because the problem of the Korean is at least four or five years old, have always been conducted in which there has been an opportunity to be sufficiently transparent and clear those who earn them. The use of this loophole and the possibility in the Ordinance, if it is not controlled in the way it has requirements for it, that is to say, for its urgency within one month to implement the relevant procedures, creates prerequisites for a huge tension and practices that would not otherwise be possible. In conclusion, as a state resource, forest control is extremely important. The Ministry of Agriculture, as a body responsible for control, followed by the structures that deal, manage and manage the forest, to find the necessary options and opportunities to comply with the requirements of the Ordinance in the way it is recorded. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u168	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. The next question is from the National Representative Pencho Milkov on measures to prevent African swine fever in Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u169	Dear Madam President, colleagues, dear Mr. Porozhanov! Ruse is a border region for Bulgaria and the issue of African swine fever is a real danger. In many settlements, following an explanatory campaign on the initiative of mayors of municipalities and mayors, actions have been taken together with veterinarians for the voluntary killing of domestic pigs grown in the so-called backyard, namely individually in the courtyards of people who do not represent livestock sites. The period for hunting wild boar was extended, but the same should be carried out with an escort. There is evidence that on the second organ samples presented by the hunters of the Central Laboratory in Sofia, more than 35 days at the time of asking my question Thus, the gangs and hunters are forced to hold more than 35 days, again at the time of asking my question, the shot-off wild pigs in the freezers and do not have the opportunity to collect new ones. At the same time, the data for all new and new outbreaks near Bulgaria are known to all of us in Romania. There are pig farms with more than 150 thousand animals on the territory of Ruse region. In the event of an outbreak, unrecoverable damage may be achieved for this livestock sector in the country. So far, the fight to prevent the disease has been fought by the mayors of municipalities. And now my questions, Minister. What measures at national level has the Bulgarian State taken to prevent African swine fever in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and are these measures sufficient? What measures are being taken in other countries and can they be perceived as good practices and implemented in Bulgaria? What measures will be taken in the event that the disease is detected on the territory of Bulgaria...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What will be the consequences for farmers and for this sector of livestock as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u170	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u171	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Milkov! Yes, it is a very serious subject, I can talk to you for half an hour from this tribune, and there are many questions. In order to prevent African swine fever by my order of 28 February 2018, a group was designated to prepare and present an analysis on the need to take measures against the disease, as well as possible financial costs. A coordination council has been established on 27 June this year to coordinate the implementation of the measures of the HC disease prevention and control plan, in view of the complex episootic situation in Europe and especially in Romania. In Romania, the disease has actively entered since May, June and is currently spreading. The increased attention is given to all slaughterhouse owners and official veterinarians for the prevention of infection from establishments to meat-producing establishments. Measures have been taken to disinfect the means of transport entering and exiting the establishments, slaughterhouses and border crossings of the entry vehicles. The border crossings, one by one, have not been restored at the same time, both the crossing pits and the pounds that spray the vehicles. The control of catering establishments is strengthened as during the summer tourist season. The Ministry of Tourism has notified all tour operators of measures to prevent food for personal consumption by tourists. By letter to the regional managers of all 28 administrative districts in the country, through the mass media, advice is distributed to the population for prevention of non-proliferation of the disease in the case of slaughter of pigs for personal consumption. In order to stimulate hunters, the prices of permits are reduced as well as the minimum prices for the use of wild boar under organized hunting tourism. A fence was built on the land border of the Republic of Bulgaria with a length of 133 km. Legislative changes have been taken to alleviate individual hunting. I would like to tell you that the fence was able to do it in nearly 45 days, including with the cleaning of the polo, including with the construction, with the setting of a double, where necessary, anywhere with the And at the moment, I can assure you that there is no movement of animals from Romania all along the land border, including Ruse. And not only to Ruse, but down, going west, we have a disease on Romania's side. At the moment, I can assure you, we have daily tours of the fence by our forest workers. There are no lacerations and no movements of animals, including not just wild boars, but other domestic animals. They've given me a list of the countries that are affected here. They're very affected. You know how she jumped to Belgium. We've already had over 6,000 wild boars destroyed there. Each Member State of the European Union is obliged to implement the general measures under European law, but can also define stricter measures than they do. They wrote me a lot of stuff here. Half a minute more, Madame Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u172	Yeah, sure. Here you are, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u173	We have taken all the necessary measures, which are also standard for the European Union. They seized absolutely all the products, of course not by searching the cars and so on, by Border Police and by our employees at the entrance, the tourists, as the main vector for distribution are precisely the food products that are infected. Another vector is the movement of animals, feed and so on and so forth. With regard to the outbreak which it was, measures were taken as quickly as possible to destroy the animals in the village of Tutrakantsi. In the neighboring village, which was in the three-mile zone, the samples were negative. With regard to the hunt, we had a meeting with the two fishing alliances the other day, Wednesday, if I'm not mistaken, 1100 samples were taken from the hunting trip that was the other day. So far, they've all been negative, they've finished all the samples. Negative are the samples and this gave us a good reason to liberalize the hunting regime, so along the land border and along the river, where we had banned the race, we allowed a race, but without dogs, as dogs allow pigs to become much more aggressive and walk between 10 and 20 kilometers of additional transition. In the rest, you accept the half of our northern border, to Vidin, there we have solved the hunt with a race for now. In the same way we have authorised the hunting with a race, as the tourist season is ending, around the Varna resort settlements. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u174	Thank you, dear Minister. Come in for a cue, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u175	Dear Minister, I dare say that you have answered my questions in part, because from a brief reference you will see that I have asked you what the measures would be and how these large enterprises would be affected, which is of particular importance to the area from which I am, namely Ruseska. As I told you, there are large pig farms with over 150,000 animals. With regard to disinfection and the measures you said, I asked you for a reason: are there and do you consider measures in neighbouring countries to be positive? There the disinfection is not only at the border, but also between the settlements, which I consider a positive measure. As far as the fence is concerned, you know, and I will tell you, as living on the border, on the Danube, that the wild pigs swim and the fence is a very good thing, but first, by abstracting the doubts in its quality and efficiency, I will not affect this topic, the wild pigs may otherwise pass. As regards hunting, I have received a written reply from you regarding the order to restrict hunting and the report that has given rise to the ground. I have received both reports, including the second of September 25th, but although some liberalisation, which you are talking about afterwards, the protest is a fact and yesterday the hunters were on the Danube Bridge, so this liberalisation is also controversial because hunting without dogs, they say, will be ineffective. My main concern, the main reason to ask this question, and I hope that you, as a minister, will take all measures the Bulgarian state will do so, is that Bulgaria is not the 71st country in which this disease will be present, because along the feral pigs we talked about, the significant blow, the specifics of pig production in Bulgaria, is that it develops in large complexes, unlike Romania, and the disease would affect an entire industry. Her recovery would take many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u176	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. For the coat, Mr. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u177	Thank you. Dear Mr. Milkov, I told you that you asked a lot of questions, and within two or three minutes I cannot answer all of them. I want to assure you that from the dates I've listed, including the demand, yes, this is not zoonosis, this is causing great economic losses. The big economic losses are related to industrial farms - 62 or 63 are, the number is controversial. We're assuming it's 62. They're all checked in for safety. Where the safety wasn't enough in Slivo pole, I went on purpose, I checked out a really lovely farm. What we're trying to do is yes, the mayors are helping. They help, but they help communicate with the population from the point of view of animals looking at themselves in the backyard. Everything else is in the functions of the authorities of the state, both on the border and on disinfection, so I would like to tell you that it is not only the mayors who are involved in this process. With regard to the biosecurity of businesses, we and at the moment, at any given moment these 62 enterprises look at nearly 400,000 animals or three times a year, they become between a million and two hundred and a million and three hundred, we are aware and we are in absolute communication with the industry. We also had a central epizootic tip about two weeks ago. Yes, it's very difficult for us. We want to do not a 10-mile zone around these industrial enterprises, which will be clean from the point of view of the animals, because there is no biosecurity in the home yard. In Romania over a thousand are the cases of a backyard and 62 000 are the destroyed animals only in a backyard. Over 260,000 are already the animals that were destroyed on industrial farms. I was counting up to 200,000 there until recently. They must have a new hearth. Industrial farms, they do everything they can, but the disease can penetrate in a different way, including feed. They must not allow feed to be consumed less than two months in their silos and so on. In conclusion, I would like to assure you, as we can talk a lot, I invite you to even comment in the Ministry on this because we are dealing with all seriousness to the issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u178	Thank you, dear Minister. There is a question from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva about overcoming the consequences of the plague on small ruminants in the districts of Burgas and Yambol and the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the development of livestock farming in Strandzha. Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u179	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Our question with colleague Dimitar Boychev is related to a topic that was at its peak in July and August, but has not lost any actuality in the coming months, as reported in the media in recent days. This is about the plague on small ruminants, sheep and goats, which mostly affected the border regions of Southeastern Bulgaria, the districts of Yambol and Burgas. You'll allow me to do a brief flashback so I can formulate the question. On 19 June 2018, the National Diagnostic Research Institute of Veterinary Medicine confirmed positive results for small ruminants plague in establishments in the village of Voden. I purposely stress this factology because there has been a lot of speculation on the subject there is or there is no plague. Then on 28 June, there was a positive sample in a herd in the village of Kosti, Tsarevo municipality, Bourgas district. In July, a secondary outbreak was opened in the municipality of Bolyarovo. Hundreds of sheep and goats were killed at all the sites mentioned. The plague crisis has received a wide public response. The comments and discussions continued in different directions. For their part, representatives of the opposition repeatedly accused the employees of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency that euthanising had not been necessary and there was an opportunity for alternative measures. The first analysis showed that one of the reasons for tension among farmers and distrust of institutions were gaps in the information policy of the Agency. The topic was again up to date on September 17th, when a signal for dead animals was sent from the farm in Bolyarovo. In this plan, our question is as follows: what is the position of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the development of livestock farming in Strandzha? Is a concept being developed that is consistent with the risks of border regions and mostly along the border with Turkey because seven years ago animals of another disease were killed there again? Would you provide a summary picture of the disaster, how many of them are positive, the number of animals destroyed, the total compensation paid, and possibly what system of measures should be taken in order not to repeat the crisis after some time? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u180	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. For your answer, Mr. Minister, please come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u181	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sawateva, dear Mr. Boychev! The subject we have debated here many times. You know that we requested with the Minister of Interior Radev a hearing on the subject because there were many, how can I say, speculative statements? These speculative statements, despite continuing from certain places, I believe they are dropping one by one and this is sufficiently visible and clear. A little additional information from what you put out as a chronology. I then described it very thoroughly, including with the animals themselves and so on. Serologically 17,000 animals from 494 farms were examined in the affected areas. Here we are talking about the samples that were taken in the 20km zone around the seven, from the five villages in which there was an open virus, and they are within the three districts of Haskovo, Kardzhali and Burgas. I'm talking about these new 8,000 samples that ended after the action in the five settlements of 256 animals against the small ruminants plague virus. In connection with the eradication of outbreaks of the disease, up to now 3857 sheep and goats have been destroyed and farmers have been compensated 100% of 827 thousand. lv. I would like to tell you that the benefits were not only reasonable but also sufficient to compensate for additional losses that the owners would suffer. Separately by means of minimal assistance.de minimis. to help farmers in the districts of Yambol and Burgas and, above all, in these seven municipalities, which were banned from the municipalities of their production of sheep-growing mothers and goats affected by the disease, 2 million were paid. Nine hundred and twenty-five thousand. BGN, or total funds amount to 3 million. 752,000. BGN, such as those who are the first ones for the service of the animals that have been taken, they are subject to declaration and recovery by the European Commission up to 75% of them. The remaining compensation shall not be subject to such reimbursement. As regards the development of livestock farming in Strandja, it should be noted that it is one of the typical disadvantaged regions of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry that pursues a policy aimed at protecting, promoting and developing the existing potential of breeds and species. The activities envisaged in the Rural Development Programme and the direct payments thus take into account the identified needs and not only of this area, but also others. In this respect, it should be stressed that livestock farmers applying for the various measures of the Rural Development Programme receive compensatory payments in the implementation of an investment measure relating to the modernisation of farms, including processing and marketing of agricultural products, respectively higher amounts of financial aid, the aid intensity is higher. On the other hand, taking into account the specifics of mountain and semi-mountain areas, farmers are provided with support for their cultivation of dairy cows or sheep under lighter requirements for 2016. I do not want to enter here into the debate that we have created prerequisites for these livestock farmers, where we had the killing of the animals, to receive all the payments due to them, including now with binding and transitional national assistance based on the force majeure, for which each of them has protocols. In view of the epidemiological situation created and in order to prevent the spread of small ruminants plague and the occurrence of new outbreaks, the Ministry provides: updating the Conservation Programme against Certain Cross-border Animal Diseases, which includes enhanced serological and virological surveillance in the border regions of Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo, mentioned in the Draft Decision on the implementation of the European Commission for Bulgaria, the preparation of a Programme for the surveillance, control, prevention and eradication of small ruminants plague, the holding of periodic bilateral meetings on the exchange of information on the disease between the central veterinary services of the Republic of Bulgaria and Turkey, further training of registered veterinarians in the areas of disease and measures to be taken in the event of suspicion of small ruminants plague, including the conduct of simulation exercises. The subject is undoubtedly very long here, and we have spoken very much about it. Unfortunately, it's not over because, as I mentioned, these 256 samples that show antibodies means that we've had an animal disease that's gone through. Speculation that this is based on a vaccine that was made illegally by someone else is untenable because if these herds were vaccinated, they all had to have a similar positive antibody sample. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u182	Thank you, dear Minister. For two supplementary questions, please come in, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u183	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, thank you for your specifics. You mentioned figures that I hope will also appear in the mass media, as they give a very convincing informational picture of the situation that was really critical and which affects dozens of farmers in important areas of the country, because there depopulation is not an illusion, it is a fact. Personally, I was impressed by the serious number of samples carried out, as well as what you said about the number of animals in which antibodies were found, which actually confirms that the disease is a fact that it is an opinion of veterinarian specialists. I think that figures and specific information are the best way to stop misinformation and the emergence of false news on a rather sensitive subject. Of course, it is also important to take into account the aid that has been received, but therefore, in a moment's time in the attitude that I will take on the subject. I'll ask you two supplementary questions. One of them is related, as I said, to the report on the problem during the crisis situation. It is a question of how difficult it is for veterinarians to fulfil their commitments, they should be more generous in information about herd owners, to inform them of what is happening, of the inevitable extreme measures to be taken. In this sense, my supplementary question is: is there a change in information policy in order to avoid this tension that has occurred in this particular case, and is there a need for a change in the legal basis so that there is no problem in the access of veterinarians in herds in subsequent incidents? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u184	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u185	Yes, it was undoubtedly noted that the information notification issue had initially not reached each one. Not that meetings were not held at regional epizootic councils, not that they weren't attended by mayors and producers who would still hand over the situation, but it was easier for everyone to say that they didn't understand, someone didn't explain it to him and so on. Yeah, we've reported that the vets haven't talked to each one individually, and there's already plenty of information. I believe the Food Agency is improving this communication policy. I will give you another example: Do you think that there is not enough information in the herd in Bolyarovo, which is surrounded by sympathizers from a party that is not in parliament standing in front, keeping Anna's flock from taking a second sample? At the moment, she has agreed to take a second sample on her terms. There's no terms, there's a law! What do you expect there? You think she doesn't have information?! We can't identify the disease from the samples taken from the dead animal. 11 animals died there. Yeah, well, it's a good thing the herd is on lockdown right now, sitting in a place like a commune. I'm guessing he's being stripped of his breeding status right now because he doesn't meet the requirement. It can be the person who, 24 hours a day, should allow veterinary authorities to have access to the herd. The fact that someone does not want to accept the information that they are looking for different other reasons not to have information on the topic continues. Let's see what we do with those 260 animals with antibodies. I don't think there should be any way to destroy herds or anything like that. We need to see the animals that have the antibodies and how to approach them, because they're virus carriers. Everyone with antibodies is a virus carrier. So from now on, the samples will continue. That was round two, there's going to be a third, and I guess there's going to be a fourth, because this is a dangerous zone. For no one it is a secret, we have said it many times that in Turkey this disease exists and just all the diseases, unfortunately, in most cases, as in cattle, pass in one form or another from our neighbour, where it develops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u186	Thank you, dear Minister. For consideration, Mrs. Sawateva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u187	Dear Madam President, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! For us as MPs from Burgas region it is not important to take the necessary measures in the particular situation. You were sufficiently detailed in the information you provided, and we saw the steps that were taken consistently. I would also focus on the rapid and adequate payment of benefits. I specifically followed the situation of compensation for the owners of the village of Bones, and I am convinced that in this case it has been done the right way. However, the important thing is to think about the future of the industry. From what you've said, I've highlighted three accents. One is related to updating the programme, which includes enhanced control in these areas, a better information policy that also includes additional training of veterinarians. These are important things that should not have a campaign nature, but should happen systematically, continuously, because it is important in this part of the country that people have a chance of livelihood, and livestock farming is one of the possible ones, one of the few possible livelihoods in this area of the country. Of course, this problem, which arose in June, continued in July and August. Put and sanctify each other a small problem related to him that many places in Strandja are viewed unmarked lives, that is, there are allowed, if not illegal herds, illegal animals, which predates illegal trade and may be one of the factors for the spread of such diseases. These measures that you have said, with increased control, I hope they will eliminate the possibility of growing unmarked animals. At the moment the owners are suffering damage from not having done what was necessary to mark the animals, because they have no right to receive compensation, which is a very bitter lesson. Of course, we have a lesson and from another point of view, yes, the owners are taking very hard what is happening on their farms and there is no other way, but there is no justification for the people on the side who seem to be trying to pour oil into the fire and make their choice even more difficult. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u188	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. There is a question from the National Representative Rumen Georgiev on measuring the degree of integration of the agricultural policy of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry through added value and employment. Here you go, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! Dear Minister, the analysis of agricultural policy in Bulgaria shows that the mechanisms of both the common agricultural policy and the national agricultural policy are aimed at stimulating the cultivation of over-intensity crops. However, there are no incentives and mechanisms for it to be processed in the country to a final consumer product. It is known that the best measure for the economic efficiency of the integration of sub-sectors in the sector is added value. In the Annual Report on the State and Development of Agriculture in Bulgaria from 2017, Section II "Exports of plants and products of plant origin" states: The export of plants and products of plant origin in 2016 increased by almost 16% compared to the previous year, occupying the largest share of total agricultural exports of the year almost 50%. The biggest export of cereals is wheat, barley, maize, which represents 25% of total agrarian exports. The formation of a positive trade balance under Section II amounts to 1 billion. 300 million. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures in question are compatible with the internal market within the Let me make it simple: that is, we in the Report recognise that we are exporting the primary product of corn, wheat, barley with no added value. I will give an example of wheat: if wheat is processed into flour, the added value is increased twice if processed into pasta, in bread, where the price of bread is increased to three times, if feed is produced four times, the feed for meat and milk is fed nine times, if this stuff produces meat and bread, milk and local products 13 times, if it goes to the plate of tourists 20 times the added value is increased. I mean, where is the state policy and incentives here to create conditions to rework this wheat and keep it as added value in Bulgaria? In this regard, my questions to you are: what are the data for 2017 and 2018 on the export of plants and products of plant origin, what is the policy of the Ministry of Agriculture for stimulating and the mechanisms in the sector for processing them to a final product of high added value and employment? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u190	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u191	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Georgiev, I will allow myself to start joking because I think we have enough good relations. I suggest that we develop a catering export strategy together, which only means ready-to-eat food! You're absolutely right, you're absolutely right about some information. As regards exports of agricultural products in 2017 and the first half of 2018, according to NSI data, agricultural products worth nearly 4.2 billion were exported from the country in 2017. EUR, which is 1.1% above the level of the previous year. Exports of plants and products of plant origin amounted to nearly 2 million. EUR (EUR) by 5.2% less on an annual basis. The positive trade balance or trade in these products from 2017 exceeds 1 billion. EUR, as an increase in exports of other products is reported in the meantime. The share of plants and plant products in the total agricultural business decreased from 42.9% in 2016 to 46.2% in 2017. The most significant in terms of value is the export of cereals and is mainly wheat, maize and barley, which represents 22.4% of the total export of agricultural products, followed by that of oil seeds and fruits, namely mainly sunflower and According to preliminary data, during the first six months of 2018, exports of agricultural goods increased by 13.5% compared to the same period in 2017 and reached 1.9 billion. EUR, including 8.9 million. EUR is on plants with products of plant origin. Exports of cereals and seed of oil continue to hold the largest share in total agricultural exports of 20.6% and 12,8% respectively. At the same time, in recent years there has been a tendency to increase exports of processed products with higher added value and consequently increase their share in the structure of agricultural exports. Compared to the previous year in 2017, there is a significant increase in exports of: milk and dairy products has an increase of 15,1%; animal and vegetable fats and oils The policy of the Ministry of Agriculture is to stimulate the processing of agricultural products to a final product with high added value and employment. The main objective of agriculture policy is the development of a competitive and sustainable industry and, in this sense, all the instruments offered by this policy contribute to the production of products with higher added value. This includes: income support; stimulating investment and innovation processes; strengthening farmers' market positions; promoting the production of organic, specific and traditional local products; improving the professional qualification of the employed in this and so on. A major tool, as you know, to achieve higher competitiveness is the Rural Development Programme. For the period from the beginning of its action and for the current two programmes, the period "5436 assistance contracts' for nearly 2 billion. lv. One of the measures for the RDP, in which beneficiaries are of significant interest, is 4.2. This is for processing in order to modernise physical assets, for enterprises processing agricultural production for the production of new and quality products. To date, more of the project proposals submitted under the measure are aimed at producing dairy and local products, plant and animal oils, fruit and vegetable processing. Since the beginning of this programming period, 235 contracts with a total subsidy value of 319 million have been concluded so far. lv. It is undeniable that the Rural Development Programme is the main tool for processing and raising the added value, and there are also a lot of foreign investments. Maybe after your questions and a line I'll add something I mean.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u192	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Georgiev, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, colleagues! I'm gonna try to start a joke, too, except with data from the National Statistical Institute. For the period from 2007 until now, EU funds in the field of agriculture and rural development have entered unprecedented financial resources. Unfortunately, compared to gross domestic product and gross added value, these indicators, as a relative share, have decreased, which shows that there is something quite wrong with the entire agricultural policy that should be food policy. For the period in which Bulgaria is a member of the European Union, we have lost over 10 billion in added value. lv. and about 500,000 jobs. This is based on an analysis and a report from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Dear Minister, the data you quoted for 2017 and 2018 shows that we have again increased exports of cereals, wheat, barley and maize. That is to say, this trend that I started, and you so jokingly said to carry out catering, that is, the added value will go out again, outside Bulgaria, and that is why I believe that the overall policy needs to be changed. This thing, of course, depends a lot on what will be pawned in the new common agricultural policy. You know that we, as a Bulgarian country, will have the right to have our own policy, so I call on you to be more responsible in the Committee on Agriculture and Food to address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u194	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Mr. Minister, please come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u195	Thank you. In a nutshell. You've only memorized the numbers for the export of raw produce, and as you've seen, I've given you the growth for all the other manufacturing products in dairy, local and so on. Yes, the situation is undoubtedly quite different from more than 20 years ago, where within a Union of Economic Assistance Enterprises worked, exported cans in a different form, it was a processed product, and at the moment everything is on the market and it is not so easy. What I would like to ask Mr. Milkov to leave, but on Sunday and Monday I will be in the richest Arab country and I expect to come back with something interesting, so I will invite you on these two topics, to comment on them, namely on the additional processing. Yes, very difficult to rework all the wheat, all the corn, but there is an indication on more and more feed that can come out, and it's about countries that need this thing, and we have to work and I think we are trying and achieving good results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u196	Thank you, dear Minister. The last question to Minister Porozhanov is from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Dora Yankova and Lalo Kirilov on providing firewood for the population for the upcoming winter season. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u197	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! Our question with colleague Dora Yankova is related to providing firewood for the population for the upcoming winter season. The fact is that in the months of September, October, November firewood is one of the most sought after goods of the population, and therefore large demand leads to an increase in prices and a deficit. We dare argue that as a result of the meetings and talks held in different areas of the country, this proved to be a very serious issue for the local population, where the allegations are in two directions. The first is that there is not enough firewood and, secondly, that prices are extremely high. Timber traders, including firewood, complain that supplies that are periodically required by woodworking companies, such as those who have declared firewood, must wait 25, 30 or more days. Of course, there is the option of buying firewood from state-owned enterprises, but for most of the population this is almost impossible to do. In practice, in Bulgaria the population is related to the supply of firewood and traders realize it in the nearest place to save transport costs respectively. That's one question being asked. The other major problem, which is also being posed, is the existence of a large price margin in the price of firewood supplies even in neighbouring municipalities and I give an example: Satovcha, Dospat. What is said to be that the price difference between the two municipalities is 30 That's where the mayors are worried, too. Our question to you is: what is the real picture of providing firewood, because all these claims are based on meetings and subjective notions of those who are currently seeking to resolve the issue? What is the reason for this drastic price difference that occurs in different municipalities and especially in prices between state-owned enterprises? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u198	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Mr. Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u199	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Dear Professor Bachvarova, Dear Mrs. Yankova, Dear Mr. Kirilov! The organisation by state forest enterprises to supply the population with firewood starts annually in the summer months. It is related to the determination of annual amounts of firewood for the municipalities and/or settlements concerned, the selling prices, the respective harvesting sites, the approval of the lists of eligible residents drawn up by the mayors. Despite the actions taken, the provision of firewood can start earlier and traditionally buy them immediately before the start of the heating season by the population. The total amount of firewood determined for the year for direct sales to individuals is two main ways: current root and harvested wood in a temporary warehouse and a total of 1 million and 300,000 spatial cubes. m, which is 28 thousand. Cube. M is more than the reported sales for 2017. As of the end of September 2018, according to the data of the territorial divisions of the state forest enterprises of the population, a total of 700 thousand spatial cubes were provided directly. m, or 54% of the specified volume for the year. In September alone, they are directly realized by individuals 230 thousand spatial cube. m of firewood. Up to now, over 100,000 households have already purchased firewood for personal use. Realized quantities are 32,000 spatial cubes. M, or 4% less than the same period for 2017, the reason for which is a delay by the entitled, who organise the extraction of wood for heating for the relevant needs. This is absolutely comparable as data. With regard to the sales prices of the burning wood, there is a certain increase within three to five levs for a spatial cubic meter in individual state forest and hunting farms, which represents an increase of about 7% compared to last year's prices. The increase is due to the increased costs of wood production and due to the decreasing labour force for forest activities and increased demand in the wood sales auctions held during the year. According to the regulations in force, the prices on which the firewood is sold are validated by the director of the state enterprise of each territorial unit and on a proposal from his director, for the wood extracted from municipal forests by the municipal council. This explains the existing price differences between the supply of wood in neighbouring municipalities covered by different farms and enterprises. Firewood shall be sold to the population and by traders who purchased wood after auctioning from forestry and hunting farms. By the end of September 2018, these sales amounted to nearly 2 million spatial cubes. m. Companies sell them to the population on a market basis and at prices with included costs of loading, transport, processing and a certain profit. Wood obtained from private and municipal forests is also available on the market and the Forest Law regulates the priority of meeting the needs of the population with burning wood from the forests, which are managed, managed and used by municipalities through municipal forest enterprises. Notwithstanding the established organisation and the rhythmic satisfaction of the demand for firewood by the population of all directors of state and hunting farms, additional instructions are given to maintain constant contact with local authorities. It is also ordered to maintain readiness to provide assistance by state forest structures even at places where the population supplies firewood from municipal or private forests. Just one supplement. On Tuesday, I held an extraordinary meeting on the subject of Firewood and the provision of the population. Some of the information I'm giving to you is also related to this meeting. I have given clear orders to all directors of state forestry farms by 15 October to hold meetings with mayors on the territory of state forestry holdings. To make protocols from these meetings with the relevant problems from one place or another; a second meeting by the end of October and a third meeting by 15 November so that we have feedback on the problems in each settlement. You know that sometimes we have a problem, and especially in Pleven region or elsewhere, where there are prevailing municipal forests, so that we can react if municipalities fail to satisfy the need for firewood in any way, to find the appropriate mechanism to ensure this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u200	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Yankova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u201	Dear Madame Chairman, dear Minister, Madame Minister! It has become clear, Minister Porozhanov, and I tell you a joke, surely the headlines in the newspapers should be: The winter caught us off guard again. For which way? - Why do I say that? You know about our tours in the country and people are sincere. One of the questions they ask is: for the price of wood, and is there wood; the price of bread and bread? Not at all about price policy. Since this is a problem that is being planned and you said that summer and spring between municipalities and southern enterprises, there is prior planning between the mayors, I think it is not right now that the minister in October should be serious, business and responsible, for which give God to support and assist this process in October and there will be no problems. You should intervene so that the army, which is below you and which is related to southern enterprises, to northwest enterprises, to the six enterprises, very forest, including I am aware that the mayors in business coordination between the population and the municipal forests, will have no problem. Last night in Batak, the mayor said: I have a meeting with the head of the South Central Enterprise, I need a hundred acres. This coordination is going well, but the administration could have pulled this further. The second question: it is expensive and it gets hard and hard to say and swallow when the wood is chopped go to places 120 a cube to a certain family. This may already be speculation, and we must in some way decide on these issues and see this problem. And another question on which I think you are able and able, if we have to make and a legislative decision, it is not normal for a root tariff in Dospat to be cheaper, the Southern enterprise, and for a root tariff in Satovcha, the neighbouring one, to be more expensive. It is true, but it is a state forest, and when we give a tariff per population root to deliver wood, it is right for me to create a sense of justice that the state forest has one price. You may say something else, but me and my colleague and the population as we spoke, it's a sense of justice in the country. That is why I appeal to you: you have made the finals even more responsible ministerial business coordination, out of the stands you have taken these commitments. The population, God forbid it snows, be able to supply the necessary wood and be calm for the winter period. Thank you, Madam President, for understanding the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u202	It's an important subject, so I figured I wouldn't limit you. Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Mr. Minister, the doppelganger? You won't use it. We should thank Minister Porozhanov for his participation in today's parliamentary control and move on to the questions to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova. A question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov about systematic blackouts in the town of Marten, Ruse municipality, Ruse district and guaranteeing the electricity supply during the winter season in Ruse district. Here you go, Mr. Stoilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u203	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, Madam Minister, honourable Members! The residents of the town of Marten once again went out to protest and blocked the road Ruse.. Silistra to insist that the problem of the system stops in the city will be put to an end for years. Breaks lead to poor quality of life and cause a lot of damage to electrical appliances. People wonder why every month their city is on the power outage list, and there is no result. Our questions to you are: what measures has your office taken regarding this problem, and what time will it be resolved? How and who will compensate citizens for the property damage they have suffered as a result of this problem, and have all the measures been taken to ensure the quality of electricity supply in the area during the winter period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u204	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. For a response.. the Minister of Energy Mrs. Temenuzhka Petkova. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u205	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Stoilov, Dear Mr. Milkov, in relation to the questions raised by you regarding the system interruptions in the town of Marten, Ruse District, I inform you the following. The district of Ruse and the town of Marten are served by the electricity distribution company. The power supply of the town of Marten is carried out by electricity lines Marten and Sandrovo from TPP Ruse. In relation to the question you have asked, information was requested from the North Electricity Exchange related to the case in question. On the part of the Electric distribution North it is pointed out that the main reason for the exclusions of the power lines were the found theft of elements of the cables medium voltage placed in the passable collector of the TPP Ruse. As a result of these thefts, unplanned exclusions increased, requiring the electricity distribution company to power the Marten power line with an individual cable. The two power lines were excluded from the TPP Ruse substation. For their power supply is built a new cable line from the substation Slatina, owned by the Elektro distribution North. The measures were taken to limit significantly the emergency interruptions in the town of Marten. In order to prevent future power outages for customers in the town of Martin, at the beginning of 2018. "Electrodition North" launched an investment program for the construction of a new regional node station "Iztok Ruse". The new facility will power the Sandrovo, Martin, Slivnitsa and Roma power lines. With the construction of the new node station, the two power lines Marten and Sandrovo will have independent emergency protections, which will increase the security of power supply in the area. The North Electricity Station is scheduled to start operating in December 2018. With regard to your request, I would like to inform you that for the fourth consecutive year, the Ministry of Energy shall carry out planned checks in the electricity system operator and the electricity distribution companies operating on the territory of the country, including North Electricity distribution. Despite the fact that these scheduled inspections are underway, in relation to your inquiry with my order from yesterday, an extraordinarily out-of-plan inspection has been carried out on the specific case. It will be carried out in the period 11 October, and for the results of this verification I will have the commitment to report to you in due time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u206	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Milkov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u207	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Minister, I'm going to start backwards. First of all, thank you for ordering a check on our signal, but for years the electricity in Martin is irregular. For years, people have solved this problem themselves by putting in extra funds so they don't burn their appliances, but they burn again, the electricity goes out. I don't know in previous checks or in checks as a result of questions from my colleagues at previous meetings or the mayors, when they wrote, what were the results, that only after once again people went out and blocked the road three weeks ago, a week ago happily, we looked at pictures in the newspapers, was delivered this node station. It is really a noun because we hope it will solve a noun problem with which for years people in this nearest settlement and only another city in our municipality, namely the city of Martin, live in unacceptable conditions. I hope, as a result of the verification that you will carry out, that the state will finally exercise power and that the problem will be resolved, because it is inadequate for the company to include a problem of solving in its projects for the period 2019 - 2023, which information has already been delivered, given that this problem has been for many years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u208	Thank you, dear Mr. Milkov. Will there be a hole, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u209	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milkov, thank you for the addition you've made. Indeed, there is a problem in this area and, as I have already mentioned, we have requested the relevant information from the electricity distribution company operating on this territory. Such information has been provided to us. Indeed, North Electricity colleagues have taken very serious measures to invest a very serious resource. This key substation, which is being built, has already been built and is expected to be put into operation in December 2018, its value is just over 400 thousand. lv. These are really very serious investments. Along with that, nearly 90 grand. lv. are invested in other activities so that the security of electricity supply in the region can be ensured. The main reason why it has come to this unpleasant situation for citizens is precisely a series of thefts of relevant infrastructure, which is the main and major problem. In order for colleagues to be able to overcome these thefts in the future, they have been forced to and have taken measures to build such a type of system to ensure the security of the electricity supply and minimize all these attacks on energy infrastructure. That's the main problem. I wanted information on how many complaints were filed by the citizens of the town of Marten. For the period from 1 September 2016 to the present year, the complaints are four in specific cases. "Northern distribution' has carried out an inspection, as provided for by the regulations within the relevant time limits. As a result of the checks that were carried out, it was found that these power outages in these particular four cases were for reasons outside of the North Electricity distribution. On this basis, according to the legal order, there is no legal basis for claiming these amounts by the electricity distribution company. I am using this case once again to assure you that all the necessary measures have been taken by my colleagues from the Department of Energy. Planner checks are underway, but in this particular case we will check the problem in detail and I am committed to reporting to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-05.u210	Thank you, dear Minister. We should thank the Minister of Energy Ms. Temenuzhka Petkova for participating in today's parliamentary control. This was also the last question about today's parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session on October 10th, Wednesday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
