ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Before we move on to today's agenda, I will read you a message. Deputy Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, ) (a.k.a. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria by its own orders has authorised the dispatch of troops from armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with a common staff of 30 soldiers to participate in the multinational exercise in the Republic of Romania for the time from 11 February to 17 February 2018. Second, the dispatch of a military ship "Bodri" with its state arms and crew up to 55 troops outside the country for participation in the anti-submarine exercise of Romania's naval forces with international participation, which will take place in the city of Constanza, the territorial sea and Romania's adjacent zone from 4 to 11 May 2018. The provisions of the Defence Act and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria are notified to the competent state authorities. The notifications were received on 7 February 2018 with entry number 803-09-5 and entry number No 803-09-6 and granted to the Defence Committee. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR RAIL TRANSPORT. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 19 December 2017, adopted in the first vote on 25 January 2018. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u2	Thank you, Madam President. If I may, first of all, the admission procedure in the Chamber: on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Hall Mr. Veliko Zanchev Deputy Minister of Transport and Mr. Veselin Vassilev Executive Director of the Railway Administration Executive Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u3	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Please vote for admission in this Chamber. Vote 154 MPs: 140 against 4, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u4	The Law on Railway Transport is amended and supplemented by the Law on Railway Transport. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u5	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission. Vote 148 MPs: 125 against 1, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u6	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u7	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote those supported by the Commission from § 1 to § 9 included. They voted 144 MPs: 112, none, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u8	"Additional provision'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u9	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I vote on the name of the division which the Commission supports. They voted 139 MPs: 110, none, abstention 29. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u10	According to § 10 the proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov, Rosen Zhivkov, Pavel Hristov and Claudia Gancheva according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for §10: ..................................................... This law introduces the requirements of Directive 2004/49/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 29 April 2004 on the safety of Community rail transport and amending Council Directive 95/18/EC on the licensing of railway undertakings and Directive 2001/14/EC on the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the collection of charges for the use of railway infrastructure and safety certification (Railway Transport Safety Directive).
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u11	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the version of § 10 on the Commission report. They voted 142 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 26. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u12	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u13	Statements? I can't see. I vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. They voted 133 MPs: 111, none, abstention 22. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u14	Proposal by the MPs Pavel Hristov and Claudia Gancheva according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 11: ..................................................... The animal health law makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 12 1 is amended as The Ministry of Interior shall carry out the veterinary care activities of the Ministry of Interior by a departmental veterinary care unit and by officials of the ministry's structures in accordance with this law. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraphs 3 and 4 are inserted: The disinsecting and disinsecting under para. 1 of the mobile railway units entering the country shall be carried out at border crossing points for payment at price, in service facilities within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 48 (a) (b) (i) The additional provisions of the Railway Transport Act, owned or managed by a railway infrastructure manager, by a railway undertaking or other natural or legal persons. The infection is carried out by a scheme approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (4) The price of the service under para. 3 shall be determined by the operator of the service facility according to the methodology under art. 35, para. 3 of the Railway Transport Act, in agreement with the Railway Administration Executive Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u15	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I shall put to the vote the version of § 11 on the Commission report. They voted 149 MPs: 117, none, abstention 32. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u16	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 12: ................................................................................... The investigations of railway accidents and incidents which have not been completed until the entry into force of this law shall be completed in the order so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u17	Statements? There aren't any. I shall put to the vote the version of § 12 on the Commission report. They voted 146 MPs: 121, none, abstention 25. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u18	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u19	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the Commission's support § 13. They voted 146 MPs: 121, none, abstention 25. The proposal is accepted, and with that, the Bill. Thank you, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u20	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u21	Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. A report from the Commission on the control of security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications follows. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u22	Madam President, please vote for admission to the Chamber of Ms. Tanya Karakas, Director of the Directorate of Legal Law and Business at the State Agency of National Security, and Mr. Anton Borisov Director of the Directorate of Legal and International Affairs in the State Commission on Information Security.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u23	Dear MPs, we are voting for admission in the hall of Mrs. Karakash and Mr. Borisov. Vote 141 MPs: 129 against 3, abstention 9. The motion is accepted. I ask the Quaestors to invite Mrs. Karakash and Mr. Borisov to the Chamber. Proceed, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u24	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 754-01-88, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2017. At its regular meeting on 1 February 2018, the Commission for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 754-01-88, submitted by Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs on 15 December 2017. The event was attended by Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the National Assembly, Ms. Tanya Karakash, Director of the DANS Directorate, Mr. Boris Dimitrov, Chairman of DCCI, and Mr. Anton Borisov, Director of the DCCI Directorate. The bill was presented by the MP Dimitar Lazarov, who stressed that the proposed changes concern the provision and exchange of classified information between the Republic of Bulgaria and another country or international organisation. Currently, these issues are settled in the same name Chapter 7, Article 7. Art. 113 116 of the Classified Information Protection Act. According to the provision of art. 113, para. 1 of the Law The Republic of Bulgaria provides or exchanges classified information with countries or international organisations with which international contracts for the protection of classified information have entered into force. At present, ZDSKS does not provide for exceptions to this principle. In this regard, the Republic of Bulgaria has signed numerous contracts in the field of protection of classified information. At the same time, our country has not entered into any such international treaties with a number of countries with which it maintains diplomatic relations, such as the Kingdom of Belgium, the Netherlands, Switzerland and others. The absence of international treaties to protect classified information shall prevent the provision and exchange of such information with the abovementioned countries, some of which are also members of the European Union. The inability to provide or exchange classified information about the country's security needs in cases of lack of an international contract for protecting classified information has also been identified as a minor problem in the cooperation of the security services in the Republic of Bulgaria with their partner services in other countries. The bill for amendment and supplement of the ZPCS aims to fill this gap. It provides for the creation of an opportunity to provide and exchange such information with other countries or international organisations and without the existence of an international agreement for the protection of information entered into force. [[Lowered noise in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u25	Quiet, please! Mr. Lazarov, a little higher so the coworkers can hear.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u26	In the preparation of the Bill, a study of the legislation of European countries in the area under discussion has been carried out and it has been found that exceptions to the rule on the existence of an international treaty are allowed for the needs of national security and defence, as well as in exceptional political or economic circumstances. Such exceptions are provided for in the legislation of Romania, Croatia, Switzerland, Slovakia, Czech Republic, Germany. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Committee for Control of the Security Services, the implementation and use of the Special Intelligence Funds and the access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications with 4 votes.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u27	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. There is no report from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. Do the importers wish to present the Bill and the reasons for it? Here you go, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u28	Mrs. Chairman! Importers of the Bill, which, by the way, before being signed and submitted, was discussed with representatives of DXI, DANS and working group. They worked it out. In practice, apart from what was read in the report, it is about two texts that allow for such information without such contracts being concluded, all the more so that in some Member States legislation does not provide for the exchange to take place on the basis of such contracts. This is when it comes to the exchange of such information only for the protection of national security, and the exchange of this information takes place through the State Agency for the Protection of Classified Information. This way of providing from the Bulgarian state to another country without the bilateral treaty can be done only when the conditions in the host country fully meet the requirements of our law regarding the storage of information and access to information. The law was supported by representatives of the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs, of the DPS. I think there will be support from colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party. The law is indisputable, it's classic, it needs his emergency reception.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u29	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. This was an importer's opinion. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Velkov. First statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u30	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to address the proposal to amend and supplement the Law on the Protection of Classified Information and as Vice-President of the Security Services Control Commission and as a person who has participated in meetings and discussions of such matters. First of all, I would like to say, honourable Members, that the proposed amendments to art. 113 and 114 are reasonable and create the necessary conditions for the level of protection of classified information and its exchange with other countries, which meets the challenges of modern requirements. I would particularly point out that these decisions are taken on the basis of a preliminary, reasoned opinion from that entity providing the information and that those written assurances are provided by the relevant competent authority of the other State. In this regard, I would like to address, with your permission, Madam President, to the President of the Commission, Mr. Lazarov, I would like to say that we appreciate the dignity of what you have done and to tell the importers that this is one of the few cases - this is my opinion - in which we see a perfectly prepared document. In any case, this will contribute to increasing the level of protection of classified information. At the same time, honourable Members, with regard to the reasons that start with the finding that the Law exists since 2002, but I am paying attention to something else, the following is explicitly written inside: the same Law governs public relations relating to the creation, processing and storage of classified information, as well as the conditions and arrangements for granting access to it. In this regard, honourable Members, when we, with a proposal to amend the Law, regulate relations with other countries with regard to the provision and use of such information, should also look at the system of storage of this information that we have created inside us and think of those who are responsible for protecting classified information and determining access to it. I quote the Ancient Roman Sentiment: "Who will protect us from the guards? " In connection with the established and delivered by the Special Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria, that in the nightstand of a municipal mayor, the mayor of Septemvri was found such information.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... And since it's in the nightstand, it should be suggested that something in the spirit of yesterday's speeches by colleagues that he obviously has a rich peace of mind, that he is a fan of literature and that it has become a desktop reading. So today, we and Mr. Philip Popov and another colleague are waiting for the consent and we are submitting a request to the Commission President Mr. Lazarov for a hearing of the Chairman of the State Agency of National Security about how such material, which is such information and should be stored in the spirit and requirements of the Law, ends up in a mayor's nightstand? And we are going to extend the question,... whether this information was intended only for this mayor or for everyone else in the area? This is sensitive information concerning the election during a certain period. Let's be precise and clear. After changing the Law, we will vote for the adoption of this change and I call on my colleagues, but at the same time we will not close our eyes to any actual attempts to violate this same Law, whose amendments we will adopt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting at first reading the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Classified Information. Importers are Dimitar Lazarov and a group of MPs, submitted on 15 December 2017. They voted 126 MPs: 126, no opposition and no abstentions. The proposal is adopted, with which the Bill was adopted at first reading. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u32	Madam President, to the extent that the Law is consensual, it is apparent from the statements of colleagues from BSP, colleagues from the other parliamentary groups are also importers of the bill, there were no proposals for amendments between first and second readings, please on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure to put to the vote the adoption of the Law at second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u33	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. We shall vote on the proposal in accordance with art. 80, para. 2 for a second vote we are voting on the procedure. They voted 119 MPs: for 119, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u34	The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law for the Protection of Classified Information (prom., SG No. ...) § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 113 Paragraphs 3 s 7: are created. The Republic of Bulgaria shall provide or exchange classified information only in cases related to the protection of its national security when there is no international contract for protecting classified information with another State or international organisation in force. (4) Alinea 3 shall apply to classified information of the Republic of Bulgaria with a level of security classification for use in service, "Confidential" and "Secretary." (5) Paragraph 3 shall not apply to foreign classified information provided to the Republic of Bulgaria by another State or international organisation. (6) The provision or exchange under para. 3 shall be carried out only in the event of prior written assurance by the State or international organisation concerned that the legislation and the classified information protection system established provide the classified information the same or higher level of protection than that provided for in that law, including the corresponding liability for breach of its protection rules. (7) The written assurance under para. 6 shall be provided by the relevant competent security authority of the other State or international organisation. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 114 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 2. They're creating an al. 2.... The decision to provide or exchange classified information under art. 113, para. 3 shall be taken by the DCCI for each specific case on the basis of a preliminary written reasoned opinion from the organisational entity providing the information. (3) In the reasoned opinion under para. 2 a mandatory indication of the country or international organisation requiring the provision of classified information, the need and specific national security interests to be protected and the level of security classification of the information is required. 'Concluding provisions'. Madam President, in the report is written "Concluding provisions', but the provision is a technical correction, it should be a closing provision. "Concluding provision' § 3. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u35	I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Velkov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u36	Thank you. I'm sorry, but I didn't hear very well what Mr. Lazarov suggested. As far as I understand it, it was a plural point of final provisions to be a final provision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u37	It's a warrant because it's one. Are there any other statements? There were no lines to Mr. Velkov's statement. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the paragraphs that have been read, the change "Concluding provision" and the name of the Law. Voted 118 MPs: 117, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE RURAL ACADEEMIA. A report from the Committee on Agriculture and Foods is available, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u38	Dear Madam President, I ask for a procedure for the admission of Professor Vasil Nikolov, Chairman of the Agricultural Academy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u39	We are voting on the proposal for admission. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite Professor Nikolov to the hall. Continue, Mrs. Dimova, with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u40	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Academy Act No 801-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 January 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 31 January 2018, discussing the quoted bill. In the meeting of the Commission took part: from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Atanas Katzarchev the Head of Cabinet of the Minister; Diana Fileva the Chief Legal Consult in the Directorate of Legal and Hristo Rangelov the Senior Legal Consult in the same Directorate. From the Agricultural Academy: Professor Vasil Nikolov Also attended were Prof. Gandev, Director of the Institute of Innovation Plovdiv, Associate Professor Odzhakova, Director of the Experienced Station of livestock and agriculture Smolyan, and Prof. Laleva, Director of the Agricultural Institute Stara Zagora. In addition, representatives of NGOs and industry organizations from the sector were present. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by Professor Nikolov. The amendments proposed by the Bill concern the model of funding, the organisation of management and the structure of the Agricultural Academy, as well as its property and the way of management. With regard to funding, it is proposed that the Academy, which is currently a secondary authorising officer with a budget to the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry, should have an independent budget as part of the consolidated fiscal programme. The Academy is given the opportunity to raise additional income from aid and other grants free of charge, and the persons providing these funds will have to declare their origin. The budget of the Agricultural Academy and its implementation report will be adopted by the Management Board. It is planned for the Agricultural Academy to develop a Research, Scientific-Applied, innovative and implementation strategy in the agricultural sector, which will be updated every 3 years. With regard to the structure and organisation of management, the proposals are as follows: The number is reduced and the composition of the Management Board of the Academy is changed. The Academy will be led by a president who will be appointed by the Prime Minister on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests and a board of directors, which will consist of a President and 8 members of the House of Habilitated Scientists. The Chairman of the Agricultural Academy will also be Chairman of the Management Board. The scientific, scientific and applied activities and training of PhD students will be carried out in addition to existing scientific institutes and scientific centers at the Agricultural Academy, which will be legal entities. Accordingly, the Transitional and Final Provisions provide from 1 April 2018 for state enterprises: Experienced station on servitude and agriculture.. Vratsa, Experience station on Societals Pavlikeni, Experience station on water agriculture. Pazardzhik, and Experience station on livestock and agriculture.. Smolyan, to be converted into scientific centers at the Agricultural Academy. The assets, liabilities, archives, and other rights and obligations of state enterprises will be transferred to the Academy. The experimental, applied and service activities will be carried out by the Research Centre, which will be established through the merger of the other state-owned enterprises and the Agromarket Information System (SAP). The Centre will become their universal successor, will enter into their rights and obligations and will be a legal entity with the status of state enterprise under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law. The Centre will also be able to carry out other activities related to the main subject of activity. Its funds and operations will be included in the consolidated fiscal programme as funds and operations of other economic entities under the Public Finance Act and will not be part of the state budget. The structure, organisation and activity of the state enterprise will be determined by rules adopted by the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. With regard to the two experimental bases of the State-owned enterprises at the Institute of Agriculture, Shumen, and the Institute of Mountain Stocking and Agriculture, Troyan, it is intended to be converted into scientific units of State-owned enterprises at the relevant institutes from 1 April 2018. Their assets, liabilities, archives and other rights and obligations will be transferred to the relevant institutes. All employment relations with the employees of the experimental stations and the experimental bases will be arranged according to art. 123 of the Labor Code. In the subsequent discussion of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, the amendments related to the change of the model of funding of the Academy were positive, but they made a number of comments regarding the proposed restructuring and the financial justification of the bill. They stressed that the restructuring of the Academy would lead to an increase in staff numbers, which was not reported in the financial justification. They recalled that undertakings that will be transferred to the scientific institutes and to the state enterprise have obligations which will also be transferred. Accordingly, even with its establishment, the state-owned company will find itself in a difficult financial situation. They noted that structures are transferred to the enterprise, which exist only formally and have never been active. At the same time, the scientific potential of researchers working in another part of the enterprises has not been taken into account and with their transfer to the Scientific and Production Centre, which will not develop scientific activity, this potential will not be used. In conclusion, they said they would refrain from supporting the Bill, but they would make proposals between first and second readings. The parliamentary group of the DPS also assessed as positive changes related to financial autonomy and the opportunity for the Academy to spend its own funds. They announced that they would support the Bill at first reading with the hope that the changes would contribute to improving the activity and the serious financial situation of the Academy, but expressed the concern that the new model would not achieve the expected results. Syndicate representatives said support for the financial autonomy and the lack of a fixed cost ceiling, but insisted on increasing the transfer to the Academy. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 13 votes for the Agriculture and Foods Committee with 13 votes for the Agricultural Academy Law, No 802-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 January 2018........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. A report from the Committee on Budget and Finance follows. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance under the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Agricultural Academy Act No 802-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 January 2018. At a meeting held on 1 February 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the bill mentioned. The meeting was attended by: Atanas Kazarchev. Head of Cabinet of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Professor Vasil Nikolov, Chairman of the Agricultural Academy (SAA), and experts from the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. The bill was presented by Mr. Katzarchev. He pointed out that the aim of the Bill is to create conditions through an autonomous budget of the Academy within its scientific potential to motivate researchers to create a product that is useful to society, thereby strengthening its capacity based on the revenue they will generate from the applied science they develop. He said that in this area every scientific discovery immediately goes through tests and reaches the market faster. The lack of financial and resource security slows this cycle. The opinion of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests is that the better option for the development of the SAA is to ensure autonomy of the same as the research institute and centre, so that it can decide for itself in which direction to invest and develop the science related to agriculture. The Chairman of the SAA Professor Vasil Nikolov added the presentation by clarifying the changes that are envisaged. The first change is that the SAA remains a secondary officer of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, but with an autonomous budget. The second change is in the Management Board of the Agricultural Academy. The Management Board is proposed to be appointed by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry on a proposal from the Chairman of the Agricultural Academy. The third major change - from 19 state-owned enterprises, former experienced stations, 15 to be merged into a state-owned enterprise and part of the state-owned enterprises whose functions are unique to remain as research centres with Institute status. Since the number of researchers is smaller there, it is suggested that they are called In the subsequent discussion, the MPs expressed a positive opinion on the changes in principle, but many questions were raised about the change of the funding model, the way of the unification of state-owned enterprises, through the revenue received will there be charges for activities related to science and technical equipment and others. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria................ for Bulgaria.............................. that they generally approve the change of the Law, but will refrain from voting and make proposals between first and second readings. After a discussion of the bill, a vote was held which ended with the following results:.................................. 13 MPs.................................................................................................................................................................................................................. On the basis of the above, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Agricultural Academy Act, No 802-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Will there be an importer's opinion and motives for the bill? No. I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u44	Madam President, honourable Members! I begin by saying that since 2008, the Law on the Agricultural Academy has not been amended. During that time, problems arose that required and required a change in the Law. As a rule and in principle we accept that this change should be directed towards better funding and solving the Academy's issues because at present it is in critical condition. The critical condition is primarily the financial collapse in which it is currently present. The reasons of the importers are very precise that the Agricultural Academy is a unique scientific structure for the country. I mean, it has more than 130 years of history, with different periods of its development, but it has been a support of Bulgarian agriculture anyway. She was maintaining a genofunda and continues to do so despite the difficult condition she is currently in. Against the background of these motives, the findings that are made next are related to the fact that we need to make a change in the Law. This change will change the model of budgeting, but somehow remains further behind the question related to the sufficient funding of research in Bulgaria, not only of the Agricultural Academy, but also of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. Firstly, what is proposed is linked to a change in funding, the transfers that the Agricultural Academy will receive, and the budget that will form will be based on the implementation of a budget that is part of the consolidated fiscal framework. Now, here I find it a little difficult to accept that this means an autonomous budget. Rather, I imagine that the autonomous budget is the one where there are transfers of subsidy and everything else that the Academy manages through international projects, through its own revenues to accumulate as a financial resource, to have the opportunity to distribute it and thus to stimulate institutes and activities that are respectively profitable and the practice needs them. This seems to me to be one of the important issues in which between first and second readings I wish we could find the intersection and the opportunity to really make the necessary steps for the budget in the way they are settled in higher schools and also in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The second change that we also welcome is the Governing Council, with a change in its structure. The Governing Council has so far been almost 50-50 "Representatives of the Agricultural Academy and of all other higher schools. What is being proposed at the moment is really as a body that has to make decisions in terms of its scientific activity, in terms of funding and budget allocation at the Academy, to be included in the Board of Directors people who are from the Academy itself. Experience in recent years has shown that quite often there is opposition, competition, and also experience almost to be derived from the results achieved at the Academy. It is no secret that in practice higher schools have a limited opportunity to carry out scientific projects. The Academy is the one that is a kind of donor of all other activities that are carried out in terms of research. If the bill had stopped so far, we would have supported it, but then structural changes are proposed, which for us are not working and difficultly justified, not even logical and do not rest on absolutely no financial analysis. What's this about? Four experienced stations, state-owned enterprises, become an institute. Here the question is: how is this status defined as an institute, provided that the majority of them have one or two collaborators involved in science, and there are stations that are in the large state enterprise that have four or five collaborators and work with different scientific directions? That is to say, the analysis that is done on my part and on the part of the actual facts that exist at the Academy, these four separate structures as scientific units, it is hardly necessary for them to be or should be supplemented. Shumen and Troyan, these are experimental stations, experimental stations that were eager to be separated from the institutes, are now returning to them. Experience has shown that scientific and experimental activities are difficult to coordinate within an institute. This decision is good and I think the institutes themselves support it and the people who work there. The creation of a state-owned company is proposed to unite all other state-owned enterprises that exist at this stage. Sixteen state-owned enterprises unite in one. The objections here are as follows: firstly, each of the state-owned enterprises has its own unique activity, specialized and very difficult they can be united under one hat. Secondly, of these 16 enterprises, three have absolutely no activity and no contribution in any scientific direction, and of the other two, these are Targovishte and Han Krum, who have the opportunity and carry out scientific projects and also make significant income from their own activities. When these 16 enterprises unite them together, it seems to me that we will reach a situation where the entire enterprise will have extremely difficult problems and obligations to be realised. After all, 250 people will be employed here who should be paid each month. This is in terms of structure and objections in this direction. The latter objection relates to the reasons presented by the importer and they are the economic justifications made in the bill itself. The bill says 1988 people work at the Agricultural Academy. The average monthly salary is with time served and also with the doctoral degrees that are obtained is BGN 609. for 2018, the budget is symbolic " 23 million cost ceiling," 16 "17 million is the subsidy, and 6 million is the own revenue. There have been factual errors in the economic justification provided since 1 April. The Agricultural Academy of Experimental Bases, which go to Troyan and Shumen, and with the four bases, which have the status of an institute, numbers reach 2400. This means that this transfer, which is intended to regulate and create prerequisites for an increase in wages, is in practice not correct and should be reviewed. During the discussions in the Commission, it was said:......................................................................................... We will refrain from supporting this bill, but between first and second readings we will make proposals that will be justified, which will rest on reliable information about what the state of the Academy is, what we are looking for and what steps should be taken in order for this scientific institution to really be leading, it is the only one, but also to be leading in agrarian research, to be able to absorb funds from European funds, to participate in projects and programmes, which is one of the main advantages, an opportunity to develop scientific potential in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u45	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u46	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Agricultural Academy Act aims to improve the conditions of the Agricultural Academy to develop as an effective and accessible for agriculture and business intellectual center for Bulgarian agriculture, in a modern and attractive organization for young people with good motivation for applied research and vocational training, a tool for generating innovative agricultural and food policy, a partner of local authorities in the direction of reducing imbalance in the development of regions through its structures. The current model of funding and management of the Agricultural Academy contains a number of weaknesses that hinder its development and functioning as an effective scientific structure of research, scientific application, innovation and design, as well as advisory activities in the field of agriculture, livestock and food. To solve the ill problems of Bulgarian agricultural science The bill provides for changes in three directions. Firstly, a change in the outdated model of budget management, which demotivates scientists and specialists and is an obstacle to the entry of well-prepared young staff at the Academy. In order to strengthen control, financial discipline and improve the funding model of the Agricultural Academy by means of mechanisms to increase research resources, for innovation, the introduction of the principle of autonomy in the area of funding of the Academy is proposed. This will increase its scientific freedom, restore democratic and academic beginnings, which will lead to its equality with other scientific institutions, such as the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and state higher education institutions. The proposed change is aimed at turning agricultural science into a development factor for the agricultural sector based on new knowledge and innovative activities for the creation of a quality scientific product and the realization of complete projects in the public interest. At the same time, it is expected to create appropriate working conditions and ensure decent remuneration for those working therein. The lack of a fixed cost ceiling will lead to a significant increase in own revenue and cash management in order to optimize and stabilise the Academy's scientific, experimental and applied activities, as well as to provide additional jobs. Secondly, a change in the composition and number of the Management Board of the Academy. At present, it consists of a chair and 16 members, with only 9 members of the structure of the Academy. The rest are representatives of a number of institutions that are not directly interested in its development, such as the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and five other higher education institutions, as they work competitively with it in the field of scientific development, also have similar target groups, sources of funding and others. The reduction in the number and change in the composition of the Governing Council will result in it becoming a really functioning management body of the Academy. Thirdly, the change in the organisation and management of state-owned enterprises, which are state-owned enterprises within the meaning of the Commercial Law. At present, the majority of 22 state-owned enterprises do not fulfil the expected functions of scientific production, demonstration and implementation centres for the Academy due to the lack of scientific and administrative capacity. The bill provides for some of the enterprises to become structural units of the institutes whose experimental activities serve and another part which are unique in nature to be transformed into scientific centres of the Academy with the status of institutes. The third part, which covers three-quarters of the enterprises mainly engaged in agriculture, will be merged into a state-owned enterprise. This will allow the integration of their resources for the implementation of the programmes of institutes with the greatest needs at a certain time for testing of the newly created varieties in different regions of the country under different conditions. It will also create demonstration centres where there is the greatest need. It will work quickly to replicate the genetic resources they have an increased interest in. The planned reform will help to bring together the scientific units of the Agricultural Academy and to implement their mission, namely the development of scientifically sound sustainable and highly efficient agriculture. I believe that the changes provided for in this bill will achieve the necessary change aimed at the revival of Bulgarian agricultural science and the creation of a basis for the development of the Agricultural Academy as an effective intellectual center of Bulgarian agriculture, attractive to young and promising scientists. The activity of scientists will be stimulated to increase the revenue from scientific developments for the creation and implementation of new scientific products, new varieties, hybrids, inventions, as well as technologies. The Academy should be a mediator between the needs of business and the formation of priorities for its development, as well as policies, offering scientifically justified solutions, platforms, strategies in the formation of the country's agricultural policy and the European Union. As a result, I have reason to say that the parliamentary group of GERB will support the proposed bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u47	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any lines? There are no lines. We continue with the speeches. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, for your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u48	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, before us is an amendment of the Law on the Agricultural Academy, which is only partially and is only, so to speak, regrouping and I think the problems of agricultural science in Bulgaria are not decisive. Of course, it is good to centralize this structure in the beginning and this is done with the association of individual experimental stations in an enterprise. Contrary to Mrs. Bachvarova's opinion, I think that turning some of the stations into institutes is good because it happens in areas that are sensitive to our agricultural science: in Vratsa, in Pavlikeni, in Pazardzhik, in water farming, respectively in Smolyan, to raise, so to speak, their level and this, as it was said, have few staff in its current state. Of course, it depends on how these units develop. In the proposal for change there are attached tables. One of them shows that the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry takes agricultural science seriously by increasing the budget. For example, I took out a number. The staff budget so far has been 17 million. BGN, now becomes 23 million. lv. So in this respect, I have no comments. However, I would like to emphasise once again that the proposal to amend the Law does not carry out almost any reform in this area. I've been, I've worked with some of the institutes, I know what it's about. That there is no market ground for the work of these fellows, the gentlemen here on the left, know everything. [[Arrival in SG of BSP for Bulgaria.]] That the work of these units, of the scientific institutes, of the enterprises is not put on the market at all, is, in my opinion, a huge mistake in the concept of the Agricultural Academy. There continues to be talk about who paid what, who would increase what, why the cleaners approached as salaries to the scientific assistants. There is talk about this, not about how these units will start working on the market and those who work well on the market will start receiving remunerations that are repeatedly above the current aid they receive practically. From another point of view, those who work for production and make profits bring it to the plant. I don't see any difference from what they did 30 years ago. It's the same thing now! They import and from there there becomes redistribution and respectively babysitting of institutes that really cannot work for a number of reasons. We will therefore support this proposal. As I said, it is a start of reform for me, but the real reform of the Agricultural Academy will take place when the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry has put forward a proposal that has put the institutes on market ground. And most importantly, scientists by law to start enjoying their products, so-called royalty. We can look at neighbouring Turkey, where half the wages of researchers in their institutes are formed by their rights to the products created. We have discussed some rights for musical works that have come here in Bulgaria, from I do not know where you are to pay them money, and we have not discussed the rights of people who have created varieties of tomatoes, cucumbers, wheat and barley that feed us. Do you understand where we're going with this? I think that as a National Assembly I should, and I will insist between first and second reading to begin what in the past the National Assembly began to happen, namely the transformation of the Agricultural Academy, which Mrs Bachvarova did not like very much, in some specialized centers to cover the various activities and to put it on the market accordingly. Once again, I ask the question if science is not put in the market, it will continue to receive aid, to wait for results and seed French and Austrian varieties of wheat in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u49	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. You're welcome to speak, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u50	Madam President, honourable Members! It is an indisputable fact that the Agricultural Academy is in critically remorseful condition. At the same time, it is an undisputed fact that the Agricultural Academy is a national treasure. Given the tens of years of work of hundreds, thousands of researchers at the many institutes in the agricultural academy system, it has a unique genofund that many advanced countries, for example, do not have. The Agricultural Academy has unique scientific and production potential in all its divisions. There is a very widely developed network of institutes, of experienced stations that operate throughout the country. One more thing we're unique in the world. We may be the only country in which there is a scientific institute for almost every agricultural culture. I say all these things because we all care about this academy, given the potential it has. With this bill being proposed, a first step is being taken, a reform is being started by the Agricultural Academy to start the way we all want it to. By the way, we've all been trying to stabilize the Academy over time, but due to the fact that it's back on the agenda today and we're talking about it, it means that we haven't made much progress. Of course, there are a lot of problems at the Academy. They're leaving a lot of valuable footage. Famous professors and tax collectors, who have worked for many years and have given their contribution to agricultural science, are leaving the Academy today due to poor wages, poor wages, colleagues who receive these research workers compared to their colleagues from other scientific units in Bulgaria. The number of unemployed fellowships and PhDs at the Agricultural Academy is very high, again for the same reason. The Agricultural Academy is a conglomerate of some very good and wonderful institutes. At the same time, however, there are still so many that more institutes, experienced stations and divisions of the Academy, which are in tragically sad financial condition. I have personally visited several institutes of the Agricultural Academy. I can give an example with the Generaltoshev Institute, where the Director of the Institute says: "Money gassia, I cannot pay the salaries of the staff! " At the same time, there are dozens of other institutes and experienced stations that are creaking out and waiting for the tranche of the hat. In what is proposed in the Bill, there are three good things. The first and most important is to break the way of funding the Academy. Colleagues, knowing the way of funding other academies, the Agricultural Academy is perhaps the only one who has a different way of funding from the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, from the Vuses or from other related academies. With the first proposal that is being made to break the funding template and move on to another type of funding, I think it will finally break the dogma that did not give air to the Academy, I admit what we could not break once upon a time, and I very much hope with this new way of funding the Academy will go in a completely different way. I will not talk about the changes to the Governing Council because they are the lesser part of the changes that are being proposed. However, I cannot fail to mention the third group of changes proposed in this bill, the restructuring of state-owned enterprises. If the first step changes the budgeting of the Academy is a very big step, colleagues, in the third part the restructuring and in the reforms of the Academy, the step is very small. In this sense, we will support this bill, we will give a preliminary vote, a credit of trust. I'm saying a request, because what is offered here, as mathematics says, is necessary, but insufficient condition, Professor. We expect you at second reading or in the future to propose much more radical and much more valuable, deep reforms in the structure of the Academy. Here I will agree with colleague Petrov that the Academy should work on a market basis, the Academy should produce a product that is desired by our farmers and they have an interest in this product. I will read several figures from the current budget, of which it is clear that with this budgeting we cannot move one step forward. Of the total cost of 23 million for wages we have 17 million, for alimony 6 million, and for capital expenditure Only these figures show that there is no way to make progress at the Academy. In closing, Mr. Professor, you will have an incredible resistance to the reforms at the Academy outside, you will have an incredible resistance to reforms within the Academy, because no system wants to reform so quickly, so I wish you success! Last, we will support with the idea that this bill is coming to the end and at the next introduction of ZID to the Agricultural Academy Act we will see more radical and more valuable reforms in the Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u51	Thank you, Mr. Abase. Are there any lines? I won't. I give the floor to Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u52	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, there is no doubt that there is a need for amendments to the Agricultural Academy Act. Professor Bachvarova said that since 2008 no such has been made, but among the three proposals for changes there are also some concerns. First of all, this is the hasty introduction of the Bill. There was no broad public discussion and debate both outside and inside the structure of the Academy itself. Last week, during the Committee on Agriculture, some of the directors of some institutes and experienced stations attended, but unfortunately, we did not hear their opinion. None of them spoke, not even spoke and the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Food and former Minister of Agriculture Mrs. Desislava Taneva to see her views in this direction, she was still responsible for the Academy. Next, the reference to the proposals submitted on the bill is before me and unfortunately there is only one proposal in it, which also raises doubts about the lack of a broad public debate on this topic. I will read you the reasons related to one of the changes to the unification of the experimental stations. The reasons of the importers: The Draft Law for amendment and supplement of the Agricultural Academy Act provides for a change in the organization and management of the experienced stations, which are state enterprises under art. 62, para. 3 of the Commercial Law. At present, they do not fulfil the expected functions of scientific demonstration and placement centres due to lack of scientific and administrative capacity for the Academy. I will now read you the notes and the proposal of associate Dr. Galina Naydenova, Director of the Experienced Soy Station - Pavlikeni. I told you this was the only proposal on this bill. In this way, the draft law has no clarity as to the fate of the scientific activities of the stations, such as selection, variety-supporting selection of varieties created in the stations and with active certificates; maintenance of assortment orchards that are the only ones in the country. Why there is no need for additional or double rules for scientific activity in the Academy's system some for scientific institutes and others, if at all, for state enterprises. It is precisely because of the lack of regulation of the scientific activity of the experimental stations that the number of scientific assistants and the number of the working units in them in the last years has decreased three times. There is no such reduction in the composition in any of the other units as well as in the central management of the Agricultural Academy. On the other hand, some of the experimental stations have been supporting themselves for years, almost fully supporting the scientific work assigned and owned by the Academy. From this point of view, these are the most effective units in the Academy's system, with the greatest success in terms of received own funds from scientific and applied activities. Why is it believed that such units will worsen the status of the institutes? The accession of such a unit to an institute with the same objectives of research can only be considered as providing resources, also allows for administrative optimization and at the same time for the coordination and effectiveness of research and applied activities of the individual territorial units of the Academy. The stations that were branch offices of the institutes before 2009 were functioning excellently, which can be verified in the financial and scientific reports of the Agricultural Academy for this period. The separation of these units as state-owned enterprises or commercial companies was for conjunctural reasons. Thus the Academy met a requirement for a large reduction of its staff...................... you remember Minister Djankov.............................................................................thenid these cuts should be made............................................................................................................................................... In science, there's no mechanical way to do these things. With regard to funding, the Agricultural Academy not only can support itself, but it can also be extremely profitable for the state. Remember, you know that today the food they eat in space astronauts is a Bulgarian scientific application and success. Next, regarding changes to the Governing Council. I hope very much that it will not become a political body and remove science from the management and management of the Academy. Previously on § 2, Art. 3 The Governing Council consisted of 16 people: 9 outside and 7 from the Academy. I hope that with the proposed changes the President, who will be proposed by the Minister of Agriculture, and the President of the Academy himself will propose the other 8 members of the Board of Directors, will somehow not close these problems in a more political circle. Perhaps if there was a general meeting by all the heads of scientific and production units of the Academy and they chose and proposed to the Minister of Agriculture and to the President these 8 members of the Management Board would be fairer. In this way, the opinion of science will also be heard because I am so worried that the Governing Council will become a political body. As Professor Bachvarova said, from our parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria.We will abstain at first reading and we will make proposals in the Law between first and second readings. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u53	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Are there any other statements? I can't see. We are going to vote on the first vote of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Academy, No 802-01-6, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2018. Please vote. They voted 124 MPs: 92, none, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FEATURES. Please, Mrs. Dimova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u54	Please provide a procedure for the admission of Todorka Yankovska Deputy Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u55	I shall put to the vote the admission procedure in this Chamber. They voted 106 MPs: 103, against 1, abstention 2. Sustained. Please invite those admitted. Continue with the presentation of the text, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u56	In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law for Feed. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u57	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: for 103, they won't mind, they abstentioned 3. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u58	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the following 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 7 the words "the Community' shall be replaced by "the European Union'; (b) c. 8. (aa) in the text before the letter........................................................................................................ are replaced by (bb) the following points shall be inserted: Regulation (EC) No 999/2001 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 laying down rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain transmissible spongiform (o) Commission Regulation (EU) 2015/786 of 19 May 2015 laying down criteria for the adoption of detoxification methods applicable to products intended for animal feeding provided for in Directive 2002/32/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 125/10 of 21 May 2015);), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall, by regulation, lay down the requirements for direct deliveries under art. Point (d) of paragraph 2 of Regulation (EC) No 18
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u59	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the wording of § 1 with the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: for 107, none against, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u60	The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 2, p. 2 the words "European Community legislation" shall be replaced by "the European Union's mandate."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u61	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We move on to a vote to create a new § 2 with a text proposed by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 107 against and abstentions there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u62	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ Article 3 is replaced by Art. 7a. The labelling of products shall clearly indicate whether they are intended for feed or other use. The intended use other than feed cannot be changed by another feed business operator at a subsequent stage of the chain.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote, first, the text of the importer for § 2, which shall become § 3, and shall be supported by the Commission, and the version of § 3, which shall become § 4, which shall be proposed by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u64	The Commission proposes to create new § 5 and 6: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8, para. 1, t. 6 the words "the Community of Europe" are replaced by "the European Union." § 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the word "Community" is replaced by "European Union."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission proposal to create two new paragraphs: § 5 and § 6, with the text for § 5 and § 6 on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 108 MPs: for 106, against none, abstention 2. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u66	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4, which shall become § 7. According to § 5, there is a proposal of the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 the word "uses' is deleted; (b) point 5 is amended as follows: It's five o'clock. by feed business operators who produce, trade or feed medicated feed or intermediate products to produce them. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: On the basis of the information referred to in para. Summary of the quantities of compound feed produced for the respective quarter, to be published on the website of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall be prepared. Data shall not constitute official statistical information and shall only be used for official feed control purposes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 4, which shall become § 7, which shall be the importer's, and shall be supported by the Commission, and the version of § 5, which shall become § 8, which the Commission shall propose. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u68	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is The approval by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency is also required for sites where detoxification of non-compliant feed is carried out in respect of undesirable substances as defined by the ordinance under art. 11, para. 3 for maximum permitted concentrations of undesirable substances and products in feed. The detoxification method shall be determined in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2015/786. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7, which shall be § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u69	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I am voting on the text of the importer, which is generally supported by the Commission, which proposes a new version of § 6, which becomes § 9 and is presented by the rapporteur, and the text of the importer for § 7, which becomes § 10, and is supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u70	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: In the application under para. 1 shall be reported according to the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities and shall apply: (b) points 1 and 2 are repealed; (c) c. 4 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied' and the activity of the operator shall be "supplied'; (d) c. 6 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 2. In para. 6 words................................................................................. 2, p. 1, 2, 4 and 6 2, p. Four and six. 3. In para. 7 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u71	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for § 8, which shall become § 11. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u72	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17, para. 1, t. 3 the type and registration number of the means of transport in the case referred to in Article 3 shall be added at the end. IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA Code) 8, The following points are inserted after point 6 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Implementing Regulation
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u73	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of § 9, which shall become § 12, proposed by the Commission. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u74	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: In the application under para. 2 indicate the registration number of the means of transport and apply: (b) point 1 is repealed; (c) c. 4 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The documents referred to in paragraph 4 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 3 shall be verified, including by reference to the relevant public register and, where not maintained, the information shall be required and received by the competent In the case of incompleteness and/or inaccuracies within 7 days, the applicant shall be notified in writing and a time limit shall be fixed for their removal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the wording of § 10, which shall become § 13, which shall be proposed by the Commission. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u76	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 14. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words "al." 3 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced by............................................................................................................ 3, 2. In para. 2: (a) the text before t. 1 is amended as follows: In the application under para. 1 shall be reported according to the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities and shall apply: (b) points 1 and 2 are repealed; (c) c. 6 shall be added at the end when the payment is not made by electronic means. 3. A new para is being created. 3: In case of approval of an object under art. 15, para. 5 to the documents under para. 2 shall apply: 1. declaration of the method of detoxification used; 2. a scientific assessment by the European Food Safety Authority for compliance with the method with Regulation (EU) 2015/786. 4. So far, the Al. 3 becomes para. 4 and in it after the words. The following shall be added to the list: 5. So far, the Al. 4 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u77	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote, first, the text of the importer for § 11, which shall become § 14 and which shall be supported by the Commission, and, second, the text which the Commission shall propose in its version for § 12, which shall become § 15. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u78	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 19 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 2. In para. 15 words. 2, 3 and 5 and shall be replaced by......................................................................................................... 2, 3, 5 and 6, and finally added... when the payment is not made by electronic The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u79	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text proposed by the Commission in its version for § 13, which shall become § 16, and the text of the importer supported by the Commission, for § 14, which shall become § 17. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u80	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22a, para. 2 words. 2, 3, 4 and 5 3 and 5 The Commission proposes to create a new § 19: "Seriously, I'm In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 2 words. 2, 3, 4 and 5 3, 4 and 5
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u81	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the wording of § 15 which the Commission shall propose and which shall become § 18 and the creation of a new § 19 with a text which the Commission shall propose. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u82	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 20. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23f The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 3 the words "feed', "feed' and "feed' of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 May 2001 laying down the rules for the prevention, control and eradication of certain bovine animals' (Regulation EC No 999/2001) are deleted. 2. The creation of para. 6: The use of processed animal proteins shall be carried out according to art. 7 paragraphs 1 to 3 and Annex IV to Regulation (EC) No 999/2001.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 20, which shall be supported by the Commission and the version of § 17, which shall become § 21, which shall be proposed by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u84	Under § 18, there is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal on this. 1 and generally in the rest. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Chapter 3 after Article 3. Section II shall be established with art. 23g. 23h and 23i: Section II - Trade in feed offered by means of distance communication Art. 23z. (1) Trade in feed offered by means of distance communication shall be carried out in compliance with art. 11 (3) of Regulation (EC) No 877/2009, the Consumer Protection Act, the Ecommerce Act and the implementing regulations. (2) Trade in distance feed may be carried out by: 1. operator in the feed sector which has been registered or approved under this law and is entered in the registers referred to in art. 17 or 20; 2. a feed business operator registered or approved under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union, another Member State of the European Economic Area Agreement or of the Swiss Confederation. (3) Feed offered by means of distance communication must comply with the requirements of that law, Regulation (EC) No 178/2002, Regulation (EC) No 183/2005 and Regulation (EC) No 877/2009. (4) Official controls on trade in feed offered by means of distance communication shall be carried out under Regulation (EC) No 882/2004 and Bulgarian legislation. Art. 23rd. (1) For the marketing of distance feed, feed business operators shall submit a model notification to the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate at their headquarters. The model of the notification shall be validated by order of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and shall be published on the Agency's website. (2) In the notification under para. 1 indicate the means of distance communication to be used, including: e-mail address, website, telephone number, postal address and apply: 1. a list containing the names and registration or identification numbers of the operators with which the persons referred to in art. 23h, para. 2 have contracts for the marketing of feed at a distance; 2. a document of equivalent registration according to the relevant legislation, telephone and e-mail address of contact, for operators under art. 23h, para. 2, p. 2. 3. a copy of a contract with a provider of means of communication at a distance where the trade in feed at a distance is carried out through such a person.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u85	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 18, which shall become § 22. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. Sustained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u86	The Commission proposes to create a new § 23: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the words "law of the Member States' shall be replaced by "the European Union'. According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 4 sentences are created second and third: "When first produced feed materials are placed on the market, they are accompanied by a declaration of origin and compliance according to a model established by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The template shall be published on the Agency's website. 2. In para. 5 the word "fermermers" is replaced by the person who raises them. 3. In para. 6 words................................................................................. 1, 3 and 4 and shall be replaced 4. The creation of para. 7. For the purposes of point (b) of the first subparagraph of paragraph 1, Member States shall ensure that the competent authorities of the Member States and the competent authorities of the Member States of the Member States of the European Union have the right to adopt delegated acts in accordance with paragraph 1 of this Article in order to ensure that the competent authorities of the Member States of the Member States of the European Union have the right to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 4 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the creation of a new § 23 with a text proposed by the Commission and the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 19, which shall become § 24. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u88	According to § 20 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Professor Svetla Bachvarova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 26c: Art. 26c. (1) Feed business operators shall organise at least once every three years training of staff and their staff on the hygiene and safety of feed corresponding to the activity they carry out. (2) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, on a proposal from the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, by order, shall validate the training themes for each of the activities at each stage of the chain. The order is published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (3) The training may be organised by the operators in the feed sector, including through their employees who have completed a training course for the relevant activity or through higher schools and other organisations registered at the National Agency for Vocational Education and Training under the Law on Vocational Education and Training. Training can be present or remote. The training programmes and the list of persons to conduct the training shall be agreed with the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (4) The training carried out on the relevant topics under para. 2 shall be certified by the person or body carrying out the training by means of a document to be provided to the official control authorities in the exercise of their control powers under art. 45. (5) The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency annually prepares and publishes on its website up-to-date information on the topics for training.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u89	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 20, which shall become § 25. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u90	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 26: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss A new article shall be created. 29: Art. 29. Persons employed or employed by an operator in the feed sector shall provide free access to the sites under art. 45, para. 1, t. 1 of the inspectors, the official veterinarians and the employees of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency for the implementation of their control powers. The Commission proposes to create a new § 27: "The Bible says: In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1 the word "uses' is deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u91	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote, first, the wording of § 21, which shall become § 26 of the Commission, and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 27 with a text proposed by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u92	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 in the text before t. 1 the words "law of the Member States' shall be replaced by the reference to the European Union. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The destruction of feed in the territory of the Regional Food Safety Directorate issuing the disposal order shall be carried out in the presence of an inspector or official veterinarian from the Regional Food Safety Directorate and a representative of the establishment where the feed is destroyed. The owner of the feed or his authorised representative may be present at the disposal. 3. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: For the destruction of the feed, a protocol shall be drawn up in duplicate, which shall be signed by the persons present in the disposal. The first copy shall be kept in the Regional Food Safety Directorate which issued the disposal order. The second specimen shall be kept by the feed owner. A copy of the minutes shall be made available to the representative of the site where the feed is destroyed. 4. A new para 6 is being created. The destruction of feed on the territory of a Regional Food Safety Directorate other than that which issued the disposal order shall be carried out in the presence of an inspector or official veterinarian of the Regional Food Safety Directorate in whose territory the feed is destroyed and of a representative of the establishment where the feed is destroyed. The owner of the feed or his authorised representative may be present at the disposal. 5. The creation of para. 7 and 8: For the destruction of the feed, a protocol shall be drawn up in three copies signed by the persons present in the disposal. The first copy shall be kept in the Regional Food Safety Directorate which issued the disposal order. The second copy shall be kept by the Regional Food Safety Directorate on whose territory the feed has been destroyed. The third specimen shall be kept by the feed owner. A copy of the minutes shall be made available to the representative of the site where the feed is destroyed. (8) The Protocols under para. 5 and 7 contain: 1. date of destruction; 2. method of destruction; 3. type and quantity of the destroyed feed; 4. name and location of the site in which the feed is destroyed. 6. So far, the Al. 6 becomes para. 9 and in it the words by para. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. 7. The creation of para. 10: The costs of destroying feed shall be borne by the owner of the feed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u93	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 22, which shall become § 28. They voted 96 MPs: for 96, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Excuse me, Mrs. Dimova. Colleagues, we have visitors to the balcony from the town of Svoge, please welcome them. [[Applause.]] Thank you. Please continue the presentation of the text, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u94	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and in it the word "the fermers" is replaced by "the entities." 2. The creation of para. 2: The requirements of para. 1 shall also apply to the use of feed for non-food producing animals. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34b The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words. 11, para. The maximum residue levels for pesticides set out in Regulation (EC) No 396/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 23 February 2005 on maximum residue levels for pesticides in or on food and feed of plant and animal origin and amending Council Directive 91/414/EEC are added. 2. In para. 2: (a) c. 1 after the word "supplied', the maximum residue levels of the pesticides shall be added; (b) c. 2 after the words the acceptable concentrations and the maximum residue levels of the pesticides shall be added. 3. In para. 5, t. 1 the word "movement' shall be replaced by the word "movement' and shall be replaced by the word "movement' and shall be replaced by the word "movement'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u95	Statements? There are no speeches. We move on to the vote on two texts. The first is the version which the Commission proposes in the wording of § 23, which becomes § 29 and the version which the Commission proposes in the wording of § 24, which becomes § 30. They voted 93 MPs: 90, against and abstention 3. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u96	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 34c the following amendments shall be made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The destruction of feed under art. 34b, para. 8, p. 3 shall be carried out in accordance with Article 3. 32, para. 3.. 10................................................................................ 2. Allinei 4, 5 and 6 are canceled. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: For the official controls on feed carried out, a consolidated report shall be drawn up according to a model approved by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. The Conventional Protocol shall be drawn up in accordance with the requirements of art. 9 of Regulation (EC) No 882/2004
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u97	Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote. The first is the version which the Commission proposes in the wording of § 25, which becomes § 31, and the version which the Commission proposes in the wording of § 26, which becomes § 32. 99 MPs voted: 97, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u98	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 27, which shall become § 33: ................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 45 the following additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 1 after the word "animals', the places for the production of non-food-producing animals shall be added; (b) c. 2 after the word 2. In para. 6 is created t. 3: "3." an act of prohibition. 3. In para. 7 words "Securities under art. 6, p. 2 "The Acts under para. 2 " are replaced by the Acts under para. 6, p. Two and three. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 34: ................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words "competent contact point" serving the system for rapid communication under art. 30b of the Food Act is replaced by a contact point serving the Rapid Alert System for Food and Feed (RASFIF) under art. Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 implementing Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the list of approved active substances (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1). 2. In para. 2 the word "Communication" shall be replaced by a warning for food and feed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u99	Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote. The first is the text of § 27, which becomes § 33 in the version proposed by the Commission, and the second is the version proposed by the Commission to § 28, which becomes § 34. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u100	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 35: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 48 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1 the word "the fermermer' is replaced by "the person'; (b) c. 3 the words "law of the Member States' shall be replaced by "European Union'. 2. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: The result obtained from the control report shall be final and shall not be contested. (4) The costs of taking and examining the samples under para. 2, p. 2 shall be at the expense of the feed business operator and shall be paid according to the tariff under art. 3, para. 4 of the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency or the price list of the relevant laboratory designated for carrying out the control report. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 36: ................................ 36.................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. When samples of feed cannot be analysed in the laboratories under para. 1, the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency entrusts the analysis to another accredited laboratory.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u101	Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote. The first is the version which the Commission proposes in the wording of § 29, which becomes § 35, and the second is the version which the Commission proposes in the wording of § 30, which becomes § 36. Vote 89 MPs: 87, none, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u102	Under § 31, there is a proposal from the MP Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 3 the words "law of the Member States' shall be replaced by "European Union'. 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The cost of examining the samples under para. 1, except for the monitoring samples, shall be on the account of the feed business operator and shall be paid according to the price lists of accredited laboratories designated to carry out an analysis of official control samples. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the version which the Commission proposes in the wording of § 31, which becomes § 37, and the second text is the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 38 and is supported by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 88, against none, abstention 1. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u104	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 33, which shall become § 39: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53 para. 3 is amended as The operator responsible for the introduction of the consignment from a third country into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria shall notify the introduction of the relevant BIP by providing or sending the entry document under the ordinance under art. 41. The notification shall be made no later than 24 hours before the arrival of the consignment at the point. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 34, which shall become § 40: ..... 40................... 40...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 the words "with feed" shall be deleted. 2. In para. 7 words are deleted and sentences second and third are created: The certificate and documents are provided in original and translation in Bulgarian. The responsibility for the authenticity of the translation is the operator responsible for the introduction of the consignment into the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. In para. 8 words shall be deleted. 4. In para. 9 the words.......................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 41.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u105	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote three texts: the first is the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 33, which becomes § 39; the second text is the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 34, which becomes § 40, and the text supported by the Commission by the importer for § 35, which becomes § 41. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u106	The Commission proposes to create a new § 42: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53d, para. 1 in the text before t. 1, the words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 43.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u107	Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the creation of a new § 42 with a text proposed by the Commission and the second text of the importer of § 36, which is supported by the Commission, and which paragraph becomes § 43. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u108	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 37, which shall become § 44: ..................................................... Article 53h is amended as follows: Art. 53z. (1) In the case of the export of feed, they shall be accompanied by a certificate issued by an inspector or by an official veterinarian of the Regional Food Safety Directorate to whose territory the object from which the consignment is exported. (2) For the issue of the certificate under para. 1 the exporter shall submit an application to the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate no later than 10 days before the date of export stating: 1. the country to which the consignment is intended; 2. the type and quantity of feed; 3. the registration or identification number and the name of the object from which the consignment is exported; 4. additional requirements for feed, if provided for in the country for which export takes place. (3) The certificate under para. 1 shall be issued according to a model of the third country to which the consignment is exported and, where there is no such country, by a model approved by the order of the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. (4) The certificate under para. 1 shall be issued after the relevant checks have been carried out, the results of laboratory tests when samples have been taken and after loading the consignment. The certificate shall be issued by the inspector or the official veterinarian and placed on it the stamp of the respective Regional Food Safety Directorate, respectively the stamp of the official veterinarian. (5) When the certificate under para. 1 shall contain data on the quality composition or full value of the feed, the inspector or the official veterinarian shall take a sample and send it to a laboratory under art. 49, para. 1 or 2. (6) The inspector or official veterinarian controlling the object from which the consignment is exported shall be present at its loading. (7) The damage caused by incomplete or false information under para. 2 is on account of the exporter. (8) The head of the laboratory under para. 5 sends: 1. original of the test report or analysis report to the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate; 2. a copy of the test report or analysis report to the inspector or official veterinarian who took the sample. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 38, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 53i is amended as follows: Art. 53rd. (1) When in the certificate referred to in art. 53z, para. 1 entry of data under art. 1 is required. 53z, para. 2, p. 4 other than those under art. 53z, para. 5 to be verified by a test or analysis report, the inspector or the official veterinarian shall take a sample of the feed and send it to a laboratory under art. 49, para. One or two. (2) The head of the laboratory under para. 1 sends: 1. original of the test report or analysis report to the Director of the Regional Food Safety Directorate; 2. a copy of the test report or analysis report to the inspector or official veterinarian who took the sample.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u109	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 37, which becomes § 47, and the second text is the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 38, which becomes § 45.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u110	Paragraph 37 becomes 44, not 47.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u111	Vote 82 MPs: for 82, against and abstention there is no. For the record, I request that the reference be made to § 37, becomes § 44, and this text has been adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u112	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 46. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 53l The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I 2. In para. 2 after the word "mediculator" is added "or inspector" and the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011) of Annex I to Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 May 2011 concerning the placing
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote both texts: the first is the text of the importer for § 39, which becomes § 46, and the second is the version which the Commission proposes in the text of § 40, which becomes § 47. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u114	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 48. The Commission proposes to create a new § 49: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54, p. 2 the word "Community" is replaced by "European Union." The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 42, which shall become § 50. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 43, which shall become § 51.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u115	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote four texts: the first is the text of the importer for § 41, which becomes § 48 and is supported by the Commission; the Commission's proposals to create a new § 49 with a text which the Commission proposes and which was presented; the text of the importer of § 42, which is supported by the Commission, and which paragraph becomes § 50, and the text of the importer of § 43 which becomes § 51 and is supported by the Commission. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The proposals are accepted. Colleagues, I adjourn the session that we will resume in 12:00 P.M. Thank you. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u116	I think we can move on, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u117	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 44, which shall become § 52. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 45, which shall become § 53. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 54.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u118	Statements? I won't. We are going to vote on three texts: the text of the importer for § 44, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 52; the text of the importer for § 45, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 53, and the text of the importer for § 46, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 54. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u119	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 55: ........... 55....................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66, para. 3 words................................................................................. The following points The Commission proposes to create a new § 56: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 66d: Art. 66. (1) Physical person who violates the provision of art. 23i is punished with a fine of 1000 to 3000 BGN, and in case of repeated infringement the fine is of 3000 to 3000 BGN. £5000. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 3,000 to 5000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement the penalty is from 5000 to 10 000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u120	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote. The first is the Commission's version of § 47, which becomes § 55, the second text is the Commission's proposal for the creation of a new § 56. Vote 95 MPs: for 95, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u121	The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 48, which becomes § 57: ...... 57............................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 68 is created. 3 A natural person who does not execute an order or act banning the authorities of official controls under this law, if not subject to a more severe punishment, shall be punished with a fine of BGN 1500 to 3000 and in case of repeated infringement the fine shall be from BGN 3000 to BGN 5000. (4) When the infringement under para. 3 is committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 3000 to 5000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement the penalty is from 5000 to 10 000 BGN. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 49, which shall become § 58: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss A new article shall be created. 70: Art. 70. (1) Physical person who does not pay the costs under art. 50a, para. 4 when it is not subject to a more severe punishment, it is punished with a fine of 1000 to 3000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement the fine is from 3000 to 5000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a penalty of 3,000 to 5000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement the penalty is from 5000 to 10 000 BGN.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u122	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put two texts to the vote: the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 48, which shall become § 57, and the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 49, which shall become § 58. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u123	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 59. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 51, which shall become § 60: ........................................................ Article 3 is replaced by the following: 72a: Art. 72a. (1) Physical person who violates the provision of art. 29 is punished with a fine of 1000 to 3000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement the fine is from 3000 to 5000 BGN. (2) When the infringement under para. 1 was committed by a legal person or by a sole trader, a penalty of 3,000 to 5000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement the penalty is from 5000 to 10 000 BGN. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 61. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 53, which shall become § 62: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In § 1a of the additional provisions, t is created. 17: Seventeen. The following information shall be provided by the competent authority of the Member State in which the goods are to be placed on the market:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u124	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put the following texts to the vote: the text of the importer for § 50, which shall become § 59 and shall be supported by the Commission; the version which the Commission shall propose in the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 60; the text of the importer for § 52, which shall become § 61 and shall be supported by the Commission; the version which the Commission shall propose in the text of § 53, which shall become § 62. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u125	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the division "Concluding provisions'. Under § 54, there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 54, which shall become § 63: .............................................................................. In the Act on Veterinary Practice (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 47, para. 6 words are published on the website of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 118, para. 4 words in the Official Journal of the European Union are replaced by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency website. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 126 is The measures imposed under para. 1 shall be revoked by order of the competent authority where the need to apply them is sought. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) the creation of para. 1: The municipal councils shall determine, by regulation, the volume of livestock activity and the places for farming of agricultural animals within the meaning of the Law on livestock farming in the territory of the municipality concerned. b) Previous text becomes para. 2 and in it is created t. 9. Nine. carry out control of compliance with the regulation under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 5. Article 194 is amended as follows: Art. 194. When returning the consignment under art. 193, para. 1, t. 2 is impossible, the requirements of art. 219a and 219b 6. Article 195 is repealed. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is a) Previous text becomes para. 1; (b) the creation of para. 2 - 4: When the veterinarian detects violations of the requirements of para. 1, it prevents transit and returns the consignment. (3) In the cases under para. 2 where return is not possible, animals shall be taken from the official veterinarian of the BIP for the benefit of the State and directed to: 1. sale of a tender in cases where the certificate accompanying the consignment indicates that the animals are intended for breeding or production, covering the costs until their sale; 2. slaughter in cases where the certificate accompanying the consignment indicates that the animals are intended for slaughter. (4) In the cases under para. The requirements of Article 3 shall apply. 219a, para. 3 - 6........................................................................................... 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 219, para. 2 words are published on the website of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. 9. Article 8 shall be inserted in Chapter 8. 219a - 219d: Art. 219a. (1) Where a third country consignee refuses acceptance of a consignment of animals originating in the European Union in a favourable epidemiological situation, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency shall notify the competent authority of the Member State concerned which issued the certificate accompanying the consignment and, upon agreement of that authority, the official veterinarian of the BIP shall return the consignment. The costs of returning the consignment shall be borne by the person responsible for the consignment. (2) When the return of the consignment under para. 1 it is impossible for the competent authority of the Member State issuing the certificate to accept the consignment where the consignment does not pose a risk to the life and/or health of persons and/or animals, by order of the official veterinarian of the BIP animals, to the benefit of the State and to: 1. sale of a tender in cases where the certificate accompanying the consignment indicates that the animals are intended for breeding or production, covering the costs until their sale; 2. slaughter in cases where the certificate accompanying the consignment indicates that the animals are intended for slaughter. (3) In the cases under para. 2, p. 1 The auction shall be conducted under conditions and in order laid down in a regulation of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. (4) In the cases under para. 2, p. 2 the official veterinarian who has issued the order shall immediately inform the central management of BABBH, which shall determine the slaughterhouse. The slaughter is organized by the director of the ODBH, whose territory is the slaughterhouse. (5) The derived raw materials in the slaughter under para. 2, p. 2 where they are fit for human consumption, shall be granted to persons authorised as a food bank operator or specialized institutions providing social services under the Social Assistance Act. Expenditure on the transport, stay and slaughter of animals and on the storage of derived products shall be paid by the persons or specialised institutions to whom they are granted. (6) The derived raw materials in the slaughter under para. 2, p. 2 where they are not fit for human consumption, shall be provided for another realization or destruction at the disposal of the Director of the relevant ODBH, specifying the conditions for realization or destruction. The costs of destruction shall be borne by the person responsible for the consignment. Art. 219b. (1) Where a third country recipient refuses acceptance of a consignment of animals of a country of origin from the European Union and the consignment presents a risk to the life and/or health of persons and/or animals due to the existence of a circumstance under art. 179, para. 3, the official veterinarian of the BIP shall issue an order for euthanasia to animals subject to animal welfare requirements. Euthanasia and destruction are at the expense of the person responsible for the shipment. (2) The Executive Director of BABH shall immediately inform the measures taken under para. 1: 1. border inspection posts in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. border inspection posts in the territory of the other Member States of the European Union; 3. the European Commission; 4. The country of origin of the consignment. Art. 219c. (1) Where an infringement of the requirements of Regulation (EC) No 1/2005 is detected in respect of imports, export or transit of consignments of animals during the checks of BIPs in the Republic of Bulgaria, the official veterinarian shall, by order, impose one of the measures under art. 23 of that Regulation, with the cost of its implementation at the expense of the person responsible for the consignment. (2) When for the execution of a measure under para. 1 it is necessary for the animals to stay temporarily, the order shall indicate the nearest rest point with spare capacity for the stay of the animals and the costs shall be borne by the person responsible for the consignment. (3) When in the cases of para. 1 a measure has been imposed under art. 23, Paragraph 2 (d) of Regulation (EC) No 1/2005 shall apply the requirements of art. 219a and 219b. (4) The official veterinarian of the BIP shall issue an order for the killing or euthanasia of the animals where: 1. the consignment of animals under para. 1 poses a risk to the health and/or life of humans and/or animals, and/or 2. the existence of a circumstance under art. 179, para. 3 and/or 3. there is no other way to eliminate violations of animal welfare requirements. (5) Death or euthanasia shall be carried out in compliance with animal welfare requirements, the costs being borne by the person responsible for the consignment. Art. 219. Under a measure imposed under art. 207, para. Art. 2 and 3, Art. 219a, para. Art. 1 and 2, Art. 219b, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 219c, para. 1 and 4 in respect of non-Union goods, the authorities of BABBH shall notify in writing the customs authorities which decide to withdraw, destroy or sell in accordance with the provisions of Title V, Chapter 4 "Definition of goods' of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 9 October 2013 laying down the Union Customs Code (OJ L 269/1 of 10 October 2013) and Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2015/2447 of 24 November 2015 laying down detailed rules for the application of certain provisions of Regulation (EU) No 952/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down the Union Customs Code (OJ L 343/558 of 29 December 2015).) (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 285 are created. 8 and 9: When research under para. 2, p. 2 may not be carried out in a laboratory of BABBH within 45 days of submission of the application under art. The Executive Director of BABBH shall inform the applicant in writing and send the samples for testing to an official IMP control laboratory in the territory of the European Union. (9) The costs of sending the samples and carrying out the research under para. 8 are at the expense of the applicant. 11. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 425a: Art. 425a. (1) Who, when transporting animals and at the request of an official veterinarian, does not submit required documents under art. Art. 4, Art. Article 5 (4) or Article 5 (4) 6 paragraphs 1, 5 and 8 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2005 is punishable by a fine of BGN 200. A ticket shall be issued for the fine imposed at the place of infringement by the official veterinarian who has established the infringement. The model of the form of the ticket is validated by the Executive Director of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and its instructions are in Bulgarian and English. An act establishing an administrative infringement shall be drawn up on a person who contests or refuses to sign the ticket. (2) Physical person who transports animals in violation of the requirements laid down in art. 4 of Regulation (EC) No 1/2005 is punishable by a fine from 1000 to 3000 BGN and in case of repeated infringement from 3000 to 5000 BGN. (3) When the infringement under para. 2 was committed by a legal person or by a sole trader, a penalty from 5000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed, and in case of repeated infringement from 10 000 to 20 000 BGN is imposed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission on the name of the subdivision and the version proposed by the Commission in § 54, which shall become § 63. 110 MPs voted: 109, none, abstention 1. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u127	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 55, which shall become § 64. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 56, which shall become § 65: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union shall make the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 words "Commission Regulation (EC) No 376/2008 of 23 April 2008 laying down common detailed rules for the application of the system of import and export licences and advance fixing certificates for agricultural products (OJ L 114/3 of 26 April 2008'.), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EC) No 376/2008' and the Regulations relating to its.' are replaced by "Commission Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1237 of 18 May 2016 supplementing Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the implementing rules for the system of import and export licences and supplementing Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council with regard to the rules on the exemption and retention of collateral imported in respect of those licences and amending Commission Regulations (EC) No 2535/2001, (EC) No 1342/2003, (EC) No 2336/2003, (EC) No 951/2006, (EC) No 341/2007 and (EC) No 382/2008 and repealing Commission Regulations (EC) No 2390/98, (EC) No 1345/2005, (EC) No 376/2008 and (EC) No 507/2008 (OJ L 206/1 of 30 July 2016.), hereinafter referred to as the "Delegated Regulation (EU) 2017/137', Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1239 of 18 May 2016 laying down rules for the application of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council as regards the system of import and export licences (OB, L 206/44 of 30 July 2016.), hereinafter referred to as the Implementing Regulation (EU) (b) in para. 2 the words "Regulation (EC) No 376/2008' are replaced by "Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1237, Implementing Regulation (EU) 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the words "Regulation (EC) No 376/2008 and the Regulations relating to it' are replaced by "Delegated Regulation (EU) 2016/1237', Implementing Regulation (EU) 2016/1239 and the Regulations relating to it'; The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 57, which shall become § 66.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Dimova. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 55, which shall become § 64, the wording of § 56, which shall become § 65, which the Commission shall propose, and the text of the importer of § 57, which shall be supported by the Commission and which shall become § 66. Voted 103 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 2. The proposals are accepted. That's where we ended up. Mrs. Dimova, if you'd like to express your gratitude.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u129	Thank you for your patience. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u130	Thank you, too. Colleagues, visiting the National Assembly today are guests from Stara Zagora. Please say hello. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u131	We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE LAW FOR STATE CHARGES. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u132	Thank you, Madam President. Report on the Draft Law amending the Law on State Fees, No 754-01-81, submitted by Mikhail Hristov and Krum Zarkov on 22 November 2017, adopted at the first vote on 11 January 2018. The Law on State Fees is amended by the Law on State Fees. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1, as well as the title of the section "Concluding provisions'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u133	Statements? I don't see anyone who wants to. I put to the vote the name of the Law supported by the Commission, § 1, and the name of the Law "Concluding provisions." 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u134	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In the Law on Higher Education (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70, para. 2 the words "blind, deaf and invalids" shall be replaced by "sensory disabled people" and other "sensory disabled people."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u135	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 2 of the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u136	By § 3, the Commission shall support the text of the importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u137	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote § 3, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u138	Under § 4 there is a proposal from the National Representative Svetlana Angelova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In the Railway Transport Act in art. 52 the word "invalid' is replaced by "disabled'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u139	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 4 on the Commission report. They voted 104 MPs: for 104, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u140	In paragraphs 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9, including the Commission, shall support the text of importers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u141	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs 5 to 9 supported by the Commission, including. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u142	Proposal by the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new §10: ..................................................... The Social Security Code shall make the following amendments: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 5 the word "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'; (b) c. 6 the word "invalids' is replaced by "persons'. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 74, para. 3 the words "born invalids and disabled persons with acquired disability' shall be replaced by the person with congenital and the persons with acquired permanent disabilities. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u143	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u144	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First, as one of the importers of the bill, I thank all those who supported it, the MPs who made a quality proposal to improve it, and personally to Mrs. Svetlana Angelova, who works very hard under the Law. [[Applause from GERB]] As well as Dr. Ademov. Thank you. I also refer to the administration that will apply this law. Let the lawmaker's will be quite clear. The changes we make are terminological. They neither extend nor reduce the circle of persons affected by the amended provisions. We have removed.. and this is for good.. an inadequate word from the Bulgarian legislation. From now on, it is in the hands of the administration that this law should be applied specifically and not create problems. We're sure that won't happen, but it needs to be said. The will of the legislator in this case should be and is clear. Thank you again. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u145	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Are there lines? I can't see. Another statement? Here you go, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u146	Thank you, Madam President. I wonder for myself why this change is necessary and what an insult there is in the word that has acquired citizenship. It has historical significance, etymology is clear. The word is for me a word that no one can, should not, should not be offended. Looks like the word is French. I don't want to get into this argument, this drama, this research area. We know that the House of invalids exists in Paris. That's what it's called, what it was built for, which one it was built for. When such a exchange of words becomes, a correction in the language, I keep thinking of the great Orwell and his book "1984" and of the new speech, which is a concept of this incredible book, which, I have the feeling, has had insights these days and will look far into the future. Here I see a touching consensus among all. I don't know what this movement is we're doing. How are we going to change things with this new concept? And this new talk is pouring all over us. There are a number of other words that are new. I won't mention them now. I'll do it in the context of this when they use it. I've resented many times and wondered why we should replace the concepts, the words, who drives us, at what cost, aren't we getting into some scheme, is it not some other directive, that somewhere it was done that someone thought it was more appropriate?! That's my reasoning. If you hold on so much, if it is so important to you, do it, but I wonder what will result in the polzurodu, for the Bulgarian interest and for what we are called for? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. The line is Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u148	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Shopov! I admire your amazement because the reference to Orwell was good. The point is that when you change the notions or turn them into new concepts that describe known social, biological and other phenomena, you ask the question what is the point of this, as far as I understand it, or you are looking for meaning in this thing. At the very least, we need to answer for ourselves what is the point of this. Perhaps because some words and concepts are loaded with negative connotation or rather create the feeling of social isolation in certain groups. Your question or your statement, as far as I understand it, is related to the content of the question. I would like to assure you that no one is thinking, never thinking, and has no intention of thinking. And when it comes to some actual way of helping these types of people, with legislation and not just legislation, but practically helping, then there are absolutely no institutions. I'll try to help you in your answer. It's part of the hypocrisy of liberal bourgeoisie.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u149	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Another line? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Shopov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u150	Thank you. I have asked questions, and I think I have received an answer that is extremely impondent to me and which I would continue to reason with, to seek the genesis of this pointless action that we are doing today in plenary, and which, from now on, obviously, will have some meaning and meaning for some. Yes, this is part of the liberal model in which we are pushed and which a liberal model constantly replaces the concepts, the true values that try to be decent, decent and show concern for people, but only to show without real care. Here I remember another literary example. Ursula Le Gwyn, in one place in the final of her books, asked about the essence of the words, the true meaning of the names to which she gave a great deal of importance, that very often the essence of things becomes the sound of the words, and this is a process that can be moved, manipulated, guided. Here, Mr. Zablyanov, we come to the answer. The goal is to steer the process. These are depth levers that change people's minds. These are lasting, essential, very important, important levers for changing society, processes and the essence of the processes from the names of words, names, and transformation of certain processes into realities. In the future, let's not fall for it and not participate in such senseless businesses as this!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there any other speeches? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the newly created § 10 which the Commission has proposed and supported. Vote 108 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted, and with that, the Law. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE OF THE SOCIAL HELP LAW. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u152	Thank you, Madam President. Before that, allow me to make an offer for admission to the Chamber of the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mrs. Sultanka Petrova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u153	Please vote regime for the admission of Deputy Minister Petrova. Vote 99 MPs: 95 against 3, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u154	Report on the Draft Law amending the Social Assistance Act, No 702-01-59, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 December 2017, adopted on the first vote on 24 January 2018. The Social Assistance Act was amended. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for the name of the compartment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u155	Statements? I can't see. I put to the vote the name of the Law, § 1, § 2, § 3 and the name of the section of the Law, which the Commission supports. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u156	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the National Representative Hasan Ademov, made in accordance with Article 4. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In the Law on Child Protection (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43b, para. 3, p. The word "BULSTAT" is replaced by "BULSTAT" code. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: In order to obtain a licence, the persons referred to in art. 18, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 of the Law on Social Assistance submit to the President of the State Agency for Child Protection an application and a description of the social service on models approved by him and indicate a single identification code or code under BULSTAT. (b) paragraph 3 is repealed; (c) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The application referred to in paragraph 1 shall be accompanied by the following information: 2 persons under art. 18, para. 1, t. 4 of the Social Assistance Act present legalized translation in Bulgarian to: 1. the documents certifying the registration under their national law; 2. a declaration that the applicant is not declared bankrupt, is not in bankruptcy proceedings and is not in liquidation; 3. evidence of criminality of foreign nationals and of foreign legal persons........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: In the cases referred to in para. 1 providers of social services for children submit an application on a template approved by the President of the State Agency for Child Protection and if they are persons under art. 18, para. 1, t. 4 of the Social Assistance Act shall also apply the documents referred to in art. 43c, para. 4 no later than one month before the expiry date of the licence. (b) paragraph 3 is repealed. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43z, para. 3 t. 4 is amended as follows: "4." do not fulfil the obligations under art. 43d, para. Art. 8 and art. 43f, ) (a.k.a.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u157	Thank you. Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 4 on the Commission report. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The proposal is accepted, and with this, the bill at second reading. Moving on to the tenth item of today's agenda: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, this revenue is to be considered as assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. Importer: Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018 Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u158	Madam President, honourable Members! I present to your attention: ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of a Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the Secretary of State for Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning mutual support through the exchange of air transport services and air force activities (ATARES) and the Technical Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Denmark, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual support through the exchange of surface transport services for the provision of activities of the Armed Forces (SEOS), No 802-02-3, 16 January 2018. At a regular meeting held on 1 February 2017, the Defence Committee examined in its first vote a bill whose title I have just read. 21 Members of the Parliament took part in the meeting. The Chairman of the Defence Committee Konstantin Popov explained the meaning of the two technical agreements and stressed the need for their vote. The bill was presented on behalf of the importers by the Deputy Minister of Defence Atanas Zapreyanov. The notes for Bulgaria's accession to the two technical agreements were signed by the Bulgarian side on 20 October 2017. The subject of the first Both agreements provide activities of the Armed Forces within the Centre for the Coordination of Movements "Europe" which Bulgaria is a member of under the Law ratified by the Forty-fourth National Assembly on 13 July 2017, published in the Official Journal of the European Union. in DV, No. 60 of 25 July 2017 The two agreements regulate logistical support between the participating NATO member states when transporting personnel and the supply of property for exercises or operations based on mutual provision of services through relevant aircraft, ships, container and vehicle equipment. A basic principle in the operation of the agreements is that the services provided are met with relevant counter-services in full, within a reasonable time, but not necessarily on a bilateral basis or on the basis of obtaining the same counter-service. Thus, the principle already verified in practice creates unlimited opportunities for each country to use the best services of any country at the moment and to provide services to others through the Support Centre on the basis of an equalisation mechanism over time for a sufficiently long period of time. Each Member may make available its capabilities to another Party. The party using them shall reimburse the costs incurred by providing its capacity for use by the other parties at an event. The main swap unit is equivalent hours to avoid direct payments but introduces an equalisation mechanism for mutual services where reporting takes place at the end of each five-year period. The two agreements contain the necessary applications with definitions, sections and multiple anexes, which in detail regulate practical action, procedures, accountability, compensations, dispute resolution, accidents and incidents and action when exceeding the operational parameters of the five-year limit between participants. Financial payments may occur as a last resort when the services provided are not covered after the end of the five-year period. This requires ratification of the Draft Law by the National Assembly, provided that at the moment possible financial dimensions are impossible to predict. It should be borne in mind that the financial contribution for the country's annual membership contribution to the activities of the Centre for the Coordination of Movements In the event of any payment on the intended equalisation mechanism, the funds will be available. Given the considerably larger activities Bulgaria provides as a host country than our participation outside the region of Southeast Europe, it can be assumed that the country will not have to compensate with direct payments. The technical agreement shall be proposed for ratification by the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria since there is a hypothesis of a long-term financial obligation under the mechanism for the operation of the agreements cannot be determined in advance and fixed as an assumed amount. In the discussion of the Bill, full support for its ratification was expressed. 21 MPs took part in the subsequent vote. The Defence Committee adopted the following opinion with full consensus of 21 voted for. Asks the National Assembly to support a first vote Draft for the ratification of a Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the Secretary of State of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Mutual Support by Exchange of Air Transport and Air Force Activities (ATARES) and a Technical Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on Mutual Support by Exchange of Water Services on the Surface for the Protection of Armed Forces (SEOS), No 802-02-3, of 16 January 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u159	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Budget and Finance Committee. Mrs. Angelova, you're only going to say a draft of ratification so we don't read the whole title because it's too long. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u160	Thank you, Madam President. I'm presenting. ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Technical Agreement, No 802-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. At a regular meeting held on 1 February 2018, the Committee on Budget and Finance examined the Draft for ratification of a Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the Secretary of State for Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual support through the exchange of air transport services and air force activities (ATARES) and the Technical Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual support through the exchange of air transport services on the surface to provide activities of the armed forces, No 802-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Atanas Zaprianov, Deputy Minister of Defence. The two technical agreements provide for activities of the armed forces within the Centre for the Coordination of Movements "Europe" (MSCE). The notes of the Republic of Bulgaria's accession to them were signed on 20 October 2017. The ATARES Technical Agreement has the aim of implementing international cooperation for the exchange of air transport services and SEOS in the field of transport. A basic principle in the operation of the two agreements is that the services provided are met with relevant counter-services in full, within a reasonable time, but not necessarily on a bilateral basis or on the basis of obtaining the same counter-service. Thus, each country has the opportunity to receive the best services of any other country at the moment. By means of an equalisation mechanism at the end of the 60 months period it is possible to seek and implement a financial reimbursement of the costs incurred if the service received by the Bulgarian side is not reimbursed. The practice shows that this option is extremely rarely used by ISS members. The clauses of the two technical agreements provide for the emergence of financial obligations between participants in the exchange of services in the field of transport and movement, which the fact requires their ratification by law on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria. Following the presentation and discussion of the Bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 13 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u161	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. The third report belongs to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Again with the short name.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u162	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe on the ratification of the Technical Agreement, No 802-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. At a regular meeting held on 24 January 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law tabled by the Council of Ministers. The reasons under the bill were presented by Anatoly Velichkov "Deputy Minister of Defence," as follows: On 20 October 2017, notes for accession to the technical agreements ATARES and SEOS were signed by the Bulgarian side. The subject of the technical agreements ATARES and SEOS is the international cooperation for the exchange of air transport and surface transport services to provide activities of the armed forces within the Centre for the Coordination of Movements (MSCE). The technical agreements ATARES and SEOS provide definitions, indicate the applicability and specify the procedures for the application and the principles for compensation for the exchange of services in the field of transport and movement, the responsibilities of the participants and the resolution of disputes and others with the agreement that national requirements are priority over the activities covered by the agreements. The reasons for the ratification of the technical agreements ATARES and SEOS by the National Assembly are as follows: The technical agreement on the Centre for the Coordination of Movements is ratified by Law adopted by the 44th National Assembly on 13 July 2017. (prom., D.V., No. 60 from 2017). The statement was made in the notes signed on 20 October 2017 for accession to the technical agreements ATARES and SEOS: The Technical Agreement will enter into force on the date of the written notification by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria of the completion of its national procedure. After hearing the reasons for the bill, a discussion and a vote was held, as a result of which, with 17 votes for the draft, without abstention and abstention, the Committee on Foreign Policy proposed to the National Assembly, on the grounds of art. 85, para. 1, t. 4 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, to accept at first reading the Law for ratification of the Technical Agreement submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u163	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Statements? I can't see. I put to the first vote a bill for the ratification of a Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the Secretary of State for Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual support through the exchange of air transport services and activities of the Air Force (ATARES) and of a Technical Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the exchange of surface services for the provision of activities of the Armed Forces (SEOS), No 802-02-3, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 16 January 2018. They voted 88 MPs: 88, with no objection and no abstention. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mr. Toshev, for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u164	Thank you, Madam President. On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the two votes of this bill be passed in one sitting.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u165	Any other suggestions? I can't see. I put to the vote Mr. Toshev's proposal to accept this ratification at second reading. They voted 83 MPs: 82 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mr. Toshev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u166	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of a Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the Secretary of State for Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning mutual support through the exchange of air transport services and air force activities (ATARES) and the Technical Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning the mutual support through the exchange of surface transport services for the provision of activities of the armed forces (SEOS) A single member. Ratification of the Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the Secretary of State for Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning mutual support through the exchange of air transport services and activities of the Air Force (ATARES) and the Technical Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland concerning mutual support through the exchange of surface transport services for the provision of activities of the Armed Forces (SEOS) to which the Bulgarian Party joined with the Notice of Accession on 20 October 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u167	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Velkov. [[noise]] Just don't read the title again, just say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u168	There's no way I can read it, Madam President, because I know it by heart.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u169	Then don't say it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u170	I felt, so, Mr. Toshev, a slight growl in one part of the room, but that's good, because someone is afraid of me. What would I like to say, honourable Members? Dear Mr. Toshev, Mrs. Chairman! We have examined the agreement at the Commission, we believe that it is timely, that it will work and we even think that we are slightly late with ratification. We call on our fellow Members, I speak on behalf of the Vice-President of the Commission, to support this Agreement. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP, GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u171	Thank you, dear Mr. Velkov. I'm voting on the one member, and I'm going to read it now because it was a little short for Mr. Toshev, and I'm going to read it again. I'm the only one. The Technical Agreement between the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Belgium, the Minister of Defence of the French Republic, the Federal Ministry of Defence of the Federal Republic of Germany, the Ministry of Defence of the Italian Republic, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway, the Minister of Defence of the Kingdom of Spain and the Secretary of State of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on mutual support through the exchange of air transport services and air force activities (ATARES), to which the Bulgarian Party joined by a note of accession of 20 October 2017, and a Technical Agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the Ministry of Defence of the Kingdom of Norway and the Ministry of Defence of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland on the exchange of services in the field of transport on the surface to provide activities of the armed forces (SEOS) to which the Bulgarian Party joined with the addition of 20 October 2017. Please vote regime. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. Ratification was accepted at second reading. Moving on to the next point: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE TURISM LAW. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017. The first report belongs to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u172	Dear Madam President, first I would like to do a procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to be admitted to the Chamber by the Ministry of Tourism: Mrs. Irena Georgieva, Deputy Minister of Tourism, and Mrs. Lilyana Arsova, Director General of the General Directorate of Tourism.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u173	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the motion for admission to the Chamber. Vote 81 MPs: 79, none, abstention 2. Sustained. Please invite the admitted Mrs. Georgieva and Mrs. Arsova. Please continue, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u174	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe under a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 702-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017. The Commission on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting, held on 31 January 2018, examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 702-01-52. The meeting was attended by: the Ministry of Tourism supposed by Nikolina Angelkova Minister, and Lilyana Arsova Director General of the General Directorate of the Tourism Policy and by the Commission for the Protection of Users suppose Dimitar Margaritov Chairman and Konstantin Arabadzhiev Vice-President; Blagoy Stanchev from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria; representatives of employers' and trade unions; representatives of tourist, hotel and restaurant national and regional associations. The bill was presented by Minister Angelkova. According to the importer, the purpose of the proposed bill is transposition of Directive (EU) 2015/2302 on package travel and related travel services and the harmonisation of Bulgarian legislation with this of other countries of the European Union as regards the activities of tour operators and travel agents. The rights of the traveler and the tour operator are more detailed. Compensation for non-compliance has been changed under the Directive. A limitation period shall be fixed for claims for benefits. The Ministry of Tourism becomes a central point of contact with other EU countries in relation to the provision of tourist services. The deadline for categorizing by the mayors of municipalities is increased from two to three months. The possibility of inspections by officials from the Ministry of Tourism of persons engaged in tourist services on both sites and activities is envisaged. Protocols to be sent to the Commission for the protection of consumers for the imposition of penalties will be issued for detected infringements. The Commission for Consumer Protection is then obliged to notify the Ministry of Tourism of the actions taken, the penalties imposed and the results thereof. The upper limit of the property sanctions is increased from 1000 to 3000 BGN. A double-size penalty shall be introduced when the infringement is repeated. Applications for information forms for travel package contracts have been created. The minimum limits of liability for the conclusion of compulsory insurance contracts are set, depending on the turnover declared in the last year. The adoption of the bill reduces the administrative burden of providing services under the Tourism Act. Relevant changes to the Consumer Protection Act are proposed. The importer declares that the adoption of the bill is not related to the use of additional appropriations. In a written opinion, the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria supports the Bill and proposes specific remarks, including the simplification of bureaucratic procedures. The Burgas Regional Tourism Chamber has made concrete proposals under the Bill, including the establishment of a control unit in the Ministry of Tourism; the identification of tourist police in separate regions; a double and triple increase in sanctions. The President of the Commission for Consumer Protection Mr. Margaritov supported the Bill, but expressed his opinion that the duplicate control activity does not achieve a reduction in the administrative burden and there is no way for the Commission for Consumer Protection to punish on constructive protocols drawn up by the Ministry of Tourism. The employees of the Commission for Consumer Protection carry out control activities under 12 laws and there is no particular control unit for tourism activity to be transferred to the Ministry of Tourism. In the subsequent discussion the present representatives of the tourism industry supported the changes in the bill and expressed an opinion on the creation of a single branch organisation with the leading role of the state. In this way, the Ministry of Tourism could be discharged from some of its powers by transferring them to this organisation and strengthening its control functions by not only controlling its activities. The MPs of GERB expressed full support for the bill, including on the challenging discussion § 62 and § 63. People's representatives from the Bulgarian BSP supported in principle the bill, in its part, harmonisation and reduction of administrative burdens, and the opinion of the Commission for Consumer Protection, requesting the annulment of § 62 of the submitted Bill, which concerns the carrying out of control by authorised persons of the Ministry of Tourism and the imposition of penalties by the Commission for consumer protection. People's representative Petar Kanev expressed doubts about the possibility of unification of the tourism industry in short time. Minister Angelkova pointed out in the questions that the transfer of 30 staff from the Commission for Consumer Protection will be necessary, along with the funding to create a control unit (inspector) in the Ministry of Tourism. It disagreed with the position of the President of the Commission for Consumer Protection. In relation to the reduction of the administrative burden, a total of 19 types of documents are dropped as required for the provision of the various tourist services. Following the end of the discussion and the results vote: the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism adopted the following opinion: He proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 702-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u175	Thank you, Mrs. Saveklieva. Following is a report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government on a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 702-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 18 January 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 702-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Irena Georgieva, Deputy Minister of Tourism. The proposed amendments to the Tourism Act are first needed by 1 January 2018 at the latest to transpose Directive (EU) 2015/2302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on package travel and related travel services amending Regulation (EC) 2006/2004 and Directive 2011/83/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council and repealing Council Directive 90/314/EEC. Directive 2015/2302 aims to clarify and modernise the scope of the protection of tourists by amending existing European Union consumer protection regulations and repealing Directive 90/314/EEC, which has been transposed into the Tourism Act. It shall apply common rules for the formation of tourist packages and for the organisation of travel within the European Union and shall ensure that traders and tourists comply with their rights and obligations independently of national law applicable to the contract. Directive (EU) 2015/2302 also extends the right to package travel to all consumers who buy tourist services for the same journey or holiday. The transposition of Directive (EU) 2015/2302 aims to harmonise Bulgarian legislation with that of other countries in the European Union as regards the activity of tour operators and travel agents. This, from a commercial point of view, reduces barriers to cross-border trade for tour operators and tour operators wishing to work across the European Union by ensuring a level playing field on the tourist market. The protection for package travel is extended to all consumers who buy tourist services for the same travel or holiday. Out of the scope of the Law are excluded business trips organised by companies and purchased on the basis of a general agreement. The Law also aims to implement Decision No 338 of the Council of Ministers of 2017, which adopted measures to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by removing the requirement to present some official paper-based certification documents. By corresponding amendments to the Law on Tourism, the obligation to submit paper documents by citizens and by the business of certification documents in the provision of administrative services under the Law on Tourism, including a new application form is introduced, which in its main part has a declarative character for most of the circumstances for which supporting documents have been required before the changes until now. With the adoption of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, measures will be achieved to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses. In order to ensure more effective control of compliance with the requirements of Directive (EU) 2015/2302, which are introduced into the Tourism Act, as well as other requirements of the Law on tourist activities, the texts on how control is carried out are refined. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 10 votes for the Council of Ministers, 0 votes against the Council of Ministers, and 4 votes abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Tourism, No 702-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017 to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u177	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. Mrs Peeva will present the next report on the bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u178	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 702-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017. At its regular meeting on 31 January 2018, the Committee on Education and Science examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 702-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017. In the meeting took part: from the Ministry of Education and Science The draft was presented by Irena Georgieva "Deputy Minister of Tourism," which stressed that the aim of the proposed changes is to transpose Directive (EU) 2015/2302 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 November 2015 on package travel and related travel services. The Law extends the protection of package travel to all consumers, including those purchasing related tourist services. The terms and conditions under which they are provided and the requirements for their suppliers shall be aligned. Modern commercial realities with the entry of e-commerce and tourism are reported. The harmonisation of Bulgarian legislation is achieved with the legislation of the other countries in the European Union regarding the activities of tour operators and travel agents. A level playing field on the tourist market is ensured, an opportunity is created for mutual recognition of consumer protection by the Member States of the European Union in the event of the insolvency of traders. The Bill also proposes the requirements for standard travels to apply to travels with a common price for children and students. The administrative burden of 19 types of documents that affect the provision of almost all 35 administrative services under the Tourism Act is reduced. The text on how controls are carried out shall be reviewed, it shall be possible to interact between control bodies by providing information or participation in joint checks. The adoption of the bill will not lead to the need for additional funds and accordingly to changes in the budget of the Ministry of Tourism. Deputy Minister Denitsa Sacheva expressed the opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science The following discussion was attended by the MPs Milena Damyanova, Galya Zaharieva, Irena Anastasova and Asya Peeva. The National Representative Milena Damyanova presented the opinion on the submitted Draft of Ms. Vanya Kastreva, Head of the Regional Management of Education, received by letter to the Commission for dropping out of art. 79, para. 4 of the Tourism Act of the text, which concerns the approval of the head of the relevant regional management of the education of the contract, which is concluded between the tour operator and the director of the kindergarten and the school respectively. Irena Anastasova said that the contractual relationship between the tour operator and the kindergarten, respectively the school, should be refined because the school should not have financial commitments for funds that are not from his budget but are paid by the parents. Galya Zaharieva noted with concern that the Law proposed that the ban on night travel of children and students should be governed by a regulation. The need was highlighted between first and second reading representatives of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Tourism to discuss the proposed texts concerning travel of children and students. Deputy Minister Irena Georgieva and Deputy Minister Denitsa Sacheva answered the questions asked by the MPs. After a vote with results: supposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Tourism, No 702-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u179	Thank you, Mrs. Peeva. The next report is the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you go, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u180	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 702-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017. At its regular meeting held on 13 December 2017, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017. The draft was presented by Mrs. Irena Georgieva Deputy Minister of Tourism, Mrs. Lilyana Arsova, Director General of the General Directorate of Tourism and Ms. Antoaneta Cholakova, Senior Expert in the same Directorate. The amendment to the Tourism Act shall be imposed in order to align it with Directive (EU) 2015/2302 of the European Parliament and of the Council by 1 January 2018 at the latest. Directive 2015/2302 aims to clarify and modernise the scope of the protection of tourists by amending existing European Union consumer protection regulations and repealing Directive 90/314/EEC, which has been transposed into the Tourism Act. It shall apply common rules for the formation of tourist packages and for the organisation of travel within the European Union and shall ensure that traders and tourists comply with their rights and obligations, irrespective of national law applicable to the contract. Directive (EU) 2015/2302 also extends the right to package travel to all consumers who buy tourist services for the same journey or holiday. The adoption of the draft LID of the Law on Tourism and the transposition of the Directive aims to harmonise the Bulgarian legislation with that of the other countries in the European Union in terms of the activities of tour operators and travel agents. This, from a commercial point of view, reduces barriers to cross-border trade for tour operators and tour operators wishing to work across the European Union by ensuring a level playing field on the tourist market. The transposition of the Directive extends the protection of package travel to all consumers who buy tourist services for the same travel or holiday. Out of the scope of the Law are excluded business trips organised by companies and purchased on the basis of a general agreement. The draft law aims to reduce the administrative burden, as well as to strengthen the role of mutual recognition of protection in the event of insolvency. In order to ensure more effective control of compliance with the requirements of the Directive which are introduced into the Tourism Act, as well as other requirements of the Law on Tourist Activities, the texts on how control is carried out are refined. As a result of the transposition of the Directive, common rules for the formation of tourist packages and the organisation of travel within the European Union will be applied, ensuring traders and tourists respect their rights and obligations regardless of national law applicable to the contract. The protection of package travel should be extended to all consumers who buy tourist services for the same travel or holiday. It is envisaged to harmonise Bulgarian legislation with other countries in the European Union in terms of the activity of tour operators and travel agents and to reduce barriers to cross-border trade for tour operators and travel agents who wish to work across the European Union by ensuring a level playing field on the tourist market. In the subsequent discussion Mr. Ivan Ivanov, Member of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, asked what the amendments in art. 22 which provides for changes in the way a travel management organisation is established. Mr Christian Vigenin, Chairman of the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, asked on what basis are the sanctions provided for in the Bill. In response Mrs. Irena Georgieva, Deputy Minister of Tourism, said that the change in art. 22 comes from the need to reduce the administrative burden. As far as sanctions are concerned, it has been noted that they are fully in line with the directive. In conclusion, the President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds noted that the scope of this Law is very large, which is why it would be good to review the texts once again and to reflect, if possible, the proposals made by different municipalities and NGOs. In view of the above and as a result of the vote, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 6 votes to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 702-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 30 November 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u181	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall. Keep some peace and quiet. I open the debates on the first vote of the Law on Tourism. You have the floor to speak. Here you go, Mr. Prodanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The proposed changes to the Tourism Act are in three main guidelines. What is the opinion of the BSP group on these guidelines? Firstly, the first major change is the transposition of the European directive concerning package tourism services. I would like to point out here that we are already a little late, as it had to be accepted even at second reading by 31 December 2017 at the latest. Secondly, this is one of the few European directives that basically protects the rights of consumers of package tourism services and not corporations, as in most European directives. So here we have no problem supporting this part of the amendments to the Bill. The second main direction with the changes is related to easing the administrative burden for business and dropping the requirement to provide some paper documents. This change is also supported by our group. The controversial proposal for a change that we do not support is in the third part and it concerns the control that the Ministry of Tourism is required to establish a control unit. By the way, reading the transcript of the meeting of the Council of Ministers, I find that even the Council of Ministers itself does not support this change, and here I believe that the Ministry of Tourism has done just a little bit of will by proposing a different text to the National Assembly than the one adopted at the meeting of the Council of Ministers. What do I mean about control? The Ministry of Tourism proposes the creation of a special unit to control tourist sites. In certain conditions, if business is united and it categorizes and certifications its sites according to European and global standards, then there is nothing better than the state, respectively the Ministry of Tourism, to exercise control, is even mandatory. But unfortunately, in our case we do not have such a circumstance, because the tourism industry is currently very divided. There are over 200 branch organizations in the tourism industry. So we still don't have the kind of circumstance that would make us support the creation of such a unit in the Tourist Ministry. At this stage, we think it is unacceptable for the Minister of Tourism and the Ministry of Tourism to legislate, categorize, certify and at the same time verify itself. At the same time, we have a body, the Consumer Protection Commission, which has so far been carrying out this activity. He has offices in all district and county cities of the country. If we allow this change, which is proposed by the Ministry, to post employees from the Ministry of Tourism, for example a group of two or three examiners from the Ministry of Tourism to go to Varna, to detect violations in certain tourist sites, then to write a constitutional protocol and refer to the CPC. Then the CPC should go back to check these sites and draw up appropriate acts if violations are detected. This, in our opinion, is unwarranted. First of all, because there are prerequisites for corruption practices. Secondly, because you spend wrong government money. Because three-four-five seconded inspectors from Sofia for three-four days, for example, to Varna, as I set such an example, will cost about 1000 BGN. of the Ministry in the form of trips, nights, trips and so on. At the same time, once they have identified a problem at a tourist site, they must re-examine the CPC to re-check. The other is that the verified entities themselves create prerequisites and a sense of overcontrol. So as a whole, we will support at first reading the bill proposed by the Council of Ministers, and between first and second reading we will make the relevant proposals for dropping the proposals that we do not agree with. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u183	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. - What's the line? I won't. I don't see any other speeches. We're shutting down the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Tourism Act, No 702-01-52, submitted by the Council of Ministers. They voted 102 MPs: 99, none, abstention 3. The proposal is adopted, and we have completed the first vote on this law. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR BANKING NON-CONSTRUCTION. We have the report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Alexandrova, please come forward with the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u184	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! A report on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act No 754-01-75, submitted by Delyan Slavchev Peevski, Yordan Kirilov Tsonev and Hamid Bari Hamid on 26 October 2017, adopted at first reading on 17 January 2018. The Bankruptcy Act was amended and supplemented by the Law on Bankruptcy. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u185	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 93 MPs: 88, against 1, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u186	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 31a: "Restraint of powers" Art. 31a. The temporary trade union and the trade union shall not be entitled until the date of the opening of the cash-in procedure to delete the assets of the bank held by debtors, except where the claim of the bank has been fully repaid by means of a cash payment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u187	Thank you. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u188	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! From BSP we will not support this bill in this form, even more so the paragraph proposed is contrary to art. 119 of the Law on Obligations and Contracts, namely that: the repayment of the principal claim is paid out and the resulting additional claims, although the limitation on them has not yet expired. The transfer of the main claim shall also transfer the relief granted to it. During the preparation of the main claim, the accessories shall be prepared as well. This proposal regulates relations from years ago in a new order and way that is absolutely unacceptable. There's no way we can support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u189	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposed version by the Commission to § 1. Vote 96 MPs: 81, against 10, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 3 is Non-performing of transactions carried out by third parties Art. 60b. (1) Any transaction in which a claim originating in the bank has been transferred to a third party regardless of the number of transfers if, as a result of that transaction in the patrimony of the person ordered by the claim, cash or asset other than a claim for a transaction price in proportion to the claim transferred is not claimed within a reasonable period of time. (2) In case the transaction under para. 1 shall be declared invalid by the court, the third party shall lose its creditor status to other persons if its claim is based on rights acquired as a result of that transaction. At the request of the bank or insolvency creditors, all pending judicial, judicial and/or insolvency proceedings, subject to the claim of the third party, shall be suspended until the judgment on the ) (a.k.a. 1. (3) The union, the temporary trade union or the fund may bring claims before the insolvency court for the declaration of invalidity of a transaction or of a series of transactions under para. 1 within 5 years of the opening of insolvency proceedings for the bank. (4) The request shall be made under para. 3 no prior state fee shall be collected. If the claim is respected, the next state fee shall be collected by the condemned party, and if the claim is rejected, the state fee shall be collected from the bankruptcy table.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u191	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u192	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We are once again against the proposed legislation. The proposed new Article. 60b tries to correct inefficiencies in the sense of efficiency as possible legal consequences and not as an efficiency of conducting specific trials. Probably the draft provision is aimed at specific transactions of specific debtors in the Corporate Commercial Bank, at the same time the proposed legal norm intervention in the legal field of multiple third parties. The norm of art. 60b contradicts the basic principles and principles of commercial insolvency. In the case of commercial insolvency, the Law allows for revision of transactions carried out by the debtor in the so-called suspicious period. And so far we have and we have legal means, the so-called Pavlov claim. In the reasons proposed, it is not clear how much Pavlovi's claim was filed or cases were brought in the insolvency proceedings. The other which I would also like to draw attention to the fees to be dropped in relation to commercial insolvency. This predisposes an imbalance between the State and private creditors. The Constitution explicitly states that all public and private persons are equal before the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u193	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 2. They voted 99 MPs: 79, against 10, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u194	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 62, para. 1 words..2 years The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-08.u195	Thank you. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put the two texts to the vote. The first text is the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 3. The second text is the text of the importer for § 4 and is supported by the Commission. Vote 94 MPs: 79, against 12, abstention 3. The proposals are accepted. Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Dear Members of Parliament, before I close today's session, I will make announcements about tomorrow's parliamentary control: - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer one question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Dragomir Stoinev. - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will answer a question from the MP Iskren Veselinov; - Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer one question from the National Representative Ivo Hristov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov will answer five questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Kolyo Milev and Tasco Ermenkov; Lubomir Bonev; Stanislav Vladimirov; Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova, Theodora Halacheva and Sevim Ali; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer three questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov; Slavi Netsov; Petar Hristov Petrov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence Krasimir Karakachanov to a question by the National Representative Emil Hristov; - the Minister of Environment and Waters Neno Dimov, one question from the MPs Ivelina Vasileva, Dimitar Boychev, Diana Savateva, Galya Vasileva, Asya Peeva and Ivan Valkov; and three questions with written answer from the MPs Lalo Kirilov; Pencho Milkov; and Georgi Stoilov, Pencho Milkov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Polina Hristova; - Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva at a request from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to three questions from the MPs Petar Hristov Petrov; Anton Kutev; Stanislav Vladimirov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Dimitar Danchev; Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova at one request from the MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to two questions from the MPs Simeon Simeonov; Dora Yankova; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Nighyar Jafer. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a question from the MP Hristo Prodanov to the Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov will not participate. Due to the country's absence in the parliamentary control session, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will not participate; Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov. The next regular plenary session is tomorrow "February 9th, Friday, at 9.00 p.m., according to the adopted National Assembly Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
