ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u1	Hey, guys! Happy Grandma Martha to you all! Bless you, blushing and smiling! There's a quorum. [[Ringing]] . I'm opening the meeting. I'll read you a few messages. Draft and draft resolutions from 21 February 2018 to 27 February 2018: - A bill to amend and supplement the Social Security Code. Importers are Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead; - A bill to amend and supplement the Penal Code. Importers are Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs shall lead; - A bill to amend and supplement the Social Security Code. Importers are Cornelia Ninova, Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead; - A bill to amend and supplement the Election Code. Importers are Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the committee responsible and - Proposal for a debate on the questioning of MPs Tasco Ermenkov, Ivan Genov and Vasil Antonov to the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on the policy in the field of nuclear energy, submitted on 31 January 2018, No 854-05-4. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Messages: 1. The Audit Programme of the Court of Auditors for 2018 was submitted to the National Assembly with an amendment to it. The amended Programme was submitted on 28 February 2018 by letter. No 824-00-1, by the President of the Court of Auditors, indicating the change. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the Programme was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and is available in the Library of the National Assembly. 2. Information was received from the National Statistical Institute about the price indices of a producer on the domestic and international market in the industry in January 2018, business conjuncture, February 2018. The materials are available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR Customs. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Please, on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly in the Chamber to be admitted: Mrs. Rositsa Velkova Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Galya Dimitrova Executive Director of the National Assembly, Mr. Vasil Panov Director of the Directorate of the NRA, and Mr. Borislav Borisov Deputy Director of the Customs Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u3	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 151 MPs: for 145, against 2, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u4	The Commission's Report on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Customs Act No 702-01-53, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 4 December 2017, adopted at the first vote on 31 January 2018. The second voting project. The Act for amendment and supplement of the Law on Customs (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u5	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I vote on the name of the Law which the Commission supports. Vote 136 MPs: 134, no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u6	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10, para. 1 sentence 2 is created: "The circumstances concerning the judicial status are established in a court of law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u7	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 1 of the Commission Report. They voted 123 MPs: 115 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u8	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 2
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u9	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the paragraphs 2 and 9 supported by the Commission, including. They voted 142 MPs: 138, none, abstention 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u10	Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to set up a section of the "Transitional and Final Provisions" by paragraphs 10 " 11. "Transitional and final provisions' § 10. In the Law on excises and tax warehouses (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 53, para. 1, t. 1 after the words the legal form shall be a comma, and the word "in the case of' shall be deleted. § 11. From 1 January 2018, until the date of compliance with the requirements of the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses, but no later than 1 June 2018, the persons referred to in art. 103c, para. 1 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses submit data on the introduced/exported quantity of excise goods in order and manner defined by the Minister of Finance according to art. 103a, para. 2 and 4 of the Law on excises and tax warehouses.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u11	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u12	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! So far, we have voted on paragraphs 1 to 9 of the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Customs Act, which was adopted at first reading, the spirit of the Law was adopted, the principles in it were adopted, and here we had to end the vote on the Law. But we see that there is a proposal to create a new provision. The two proposals have been tabled within the deadline for proposals between the first and second reading of the two bills, and during a discussion the Commission has tabled amendments to five more bills. This is reaching a level in lawmaking that we allow, because, although the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are being rudely violated, texts that have nothing to do with the spirit of the Bill adopted at first reading are allowed to be viewed. Article 84, para. 2 of our Rules of Procedure says that proposals that contradict the principles and scope of the law adopted at first vote are not discussed and voted. I believe that the entire section, which was proposed here by the President of the Budget Committee, Madam President, in the implementation of the Rules of Procedure, should not be discussed and voted on. The second vote on the Bill would make no sense if the MPs could not make proposals on the texts. This way of making legislation takes away the right of MPs to participate in the debate with proposals on the drafts and remains their only option only and only to vote on the texts so tabled. Once each vote is in itself a crucial phase for the adoption of a bill, there is therefore a type of connection between them which excludes the possibility of discussing and making proposals in the course of the second vote which are contrary to the principles and scope of the bill adopted in the first vote. This is what the Constitutional Court's judgment in Case 4... Decision No 5 of 29 September 2015. With these proposals, in these "Transitional and final provisions".. notice, there are very serious changes to some laws, others are indeed editorial, but there is a proposal for amendments to laws that we have adopted just a few weeks ago, not even a month. I believe that this practice of making legislation, Madam President, should be terminated. I appeal to you because you, by your powers, should not have allowed these proposals to be imported into the Commission, and you should not have allowed them to be seen in this House. That is why I propose that they be rejected and we will not support such proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Turnovallisky. The proposals were made between first and second readings by the rules, so I cannot cancel proposals made. They have been examined in the Commission; they have been voted on. Do we have lines? [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: Was that a replica?]] No, it's not a line, it's a comment. The line is made downstairs. There are no lines. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Tarnovalysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u14	Madam President, I did not understand what rules and what comments you made, but explain to me which rules have these proposals been submitted by which member? Read me the Rules, I read you art. 84, para. 2. You can get to know the article further. 86 and tell me by which rules these proposals have been submitted and by which rules you will put them here today because you said there were rules, please explain them to me, I clearly do not understand!?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u15	Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. I put to the vote the two new paragraphs set up, which the Commission supports, which are in favour of. Vote 151 MPs: for 103, against 43, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u16	Proposal by the Member of the National Assembly Menda Stoyanova to establish paragraphs 12 and 13. The Commission supports, in principle, the proposal for § 12, t. 1 letters.................................................................................................... 14 - 18, p.o.b. 2 concerning the creation of art. 185a and 185b, t. 3 and 4 and § 13, and the rest of it is withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 12 and 13: ................................................................................... In the Law on Value Added Tax (promise, SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 4 are created t. 7 and 8: "7." the requirements for the sales management software at commercial sites and for the manufacturers, distributors and users of such software; 8. requirements for persons selling via e-shop. (b) the creation of para. 14 s18: A manufacturer/seller of sales management software in commercial sites shall be obliged to declare in the National Revenue Agency the following data and circumstances: 1. the name and version of the software produced/distributed by it; 2. that the software produced by it meets the requirements laid down in the Ordinance under para. 4; 3. that the software produced by it does not contain modules allowing circumvention of the requirements laid down in the Ordinance under para. 4; 4. that does not produce/ distribute software designed to change the functionality of the software under point 4. 1 in order to circumvent the requirements laid down in the Ordinance under para. 4 as well as to modify, delete or otherwise manipulate the information in the database with which the software operates. (15) The order for declaring the data and circumstances under para. 14 shall be determined by the Ordinance under para. 4. (16) The National Revenue Agency shall establish and maintain a public electronic list of sales management software in commercial sites for which data and circumstances under para. 14, available on the website of the National Revenue Agency. The order of entry and deletion from the list, as well as its content, shall be determined by the Ordinance under para. 4. (17) The requirements of para. 14 shall not apply to integrated automated commercial management systems and fiscal memory electronic systems. (18) A person using sales management software in a commercial establishment is obliged to use only software that is included in the list under para. 16................................................ 2. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 185a and 185b: Art. 185a. (1) To a manufacturer/sourcer of software that declares incorrect data in the declaration under art. 118, para. 14 a fine is imposed for individuals who are not traders, from 1000 to 3 000 BGN, or a charge for legal persons and sole traders, of 5 000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the amount of the fine is from 2 000 to 6 000 BGN and of the charge from 10 000 to 20 000 BGN. Art. 185b. (1) On a person using sales management software in a commercial establishment not included in the list under art. 118, para. 16, a fine is imposed for individuals who are not traders, from 1000 to 3 000 BGN, or a charge for legal persons and sole traders, of 5 000 to 10 000 BGN. (2) In case of repeated infringement under para. 1 the amount of the fine is from 2 000 to 6 000 BGN and of the charge from 10 000 to 20 000 BGN 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 1 point (e) is amended as follows: (e) storage of documents issued by/in connection with fiscal devices or integrated automated commercial management systems, including storage of data in electronic media control tape; (b) To be created t. 5. It's five o'clock. use sales management software not included in the list under art. 118, para. 16................................................ 4. Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions lays down t. 84, 85, 86 and 87: It's 84. sales management software at a commercial establishment is any software or module of software, regardless of its realization technology, used to process information to sell goods and/or services at a commercial establishment for which there is an obligation to issue a fiscal bond. 85. "Manufacturer of sales management software in a commercial establishment" is a person established within the territory of the European Union who manufactures sales management software at a commercial establishment and distributes it on the territory of the country. 86. "Spreader of sales management software in a commercial establishment" is a person established within the territory of the European Union who distributes sales management software in a commercial establishment within the territory of the country. 87. The electronic shop is an internet site through which the sale of goods/services is carried out through the conclusion of a distance contract under art. 45 of the Consumer Protection Act and which has built-in functionality for the selection, inclusion and exclusion of goods/services in a consumer basket, entry of information about the buyer, delivery address and choice of payment method. § 13. Within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Finance shall introduce the ordinance under art. 118, para. 4 of the Value Added Tax Act in accordance with it. The Regulation also lays down time limits within which producers/users and users of sales management software in commercial sites must bring their activities into line with it and with the Value Added Tax Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u17	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u18	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We have come to the real part of the proposal so made, and it is again express, extraordinary legislation with a proposal from the MP between first and second readings. The proposal tabled is to amend and supplement the Customs Act, and now, with the proposal made between first and second readings, we are changing the Value Added Tax Act. It should be noted that the Minister of Finance has already changed the regulation by which fiscal devices on the NRA's sales servers are being reported, and Parliament must now put a rubber stamp on it. Ms. Stoyanova's proposal is to seal in order to allow the Minister of Finance to implement its idea through Ordinance H-18. This, Mrs. Stoyanova, whether the Minister of Finance is accountable to the National Assembly in a republic with parliamentary management, or you are subordinate to the Minister of Finance, remains an unanswered question. However, after the Minister of Finance, if you remember, honourable Members, in the previous parliament left parliament, because the remuneration, the salary as a MP was not enough for him to support his family, we ask ourselves other questions. The state is wasted and irresponsible and introduces uncontrolled systems, as established for the reliability of Bulgarian excise centralized information system in the Customs Agency. At the same time, behind the allegedly tightening control measures, there is a massive corruption scheme with a forced replacement of all cash registers. The unequal situation of the various traders is at stake in this campaign and is once again in favor of the large chains. The large chains are excluded from the scope of the proposal so made, i.e. they do not have this replacement. This is another mechanism for stimulating monopolies, of those who have a large share in the market, which is characteristic of the management of GERB. This inadequate treatment of commercial entities with regard to control and accountability is once again visible. There are far more effective mechanisms, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling majority, which will support the proposal, working much more reliably than insecure mobile connections, especially that there is a less sustainable signal in places. With this connection you once again suspiciously, corruptly have turned every trader into a subscriber of mobile operators a long time ago First of all, we need a level playing field between all types of fiscal systems. Also, the trader chooses what system to use a cash register, a fiscal system, an integrated automated trading management system or an electronic system with fiscal memory, or others. In any commercial site it is sufficient to have fiscal memory that is connected to the site server. If there is a backup server in an object, a second fiscal memory is placed, and so on, and no forced purchases for new cash registers... Very visible is the deal for several specific companies from what you have planned, ladies and gentlemen ruling. I urge you not to support Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal between first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u19	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Turnover.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u20	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! That is why we should not make legislation this way. Texts are proposed, changes to the Value Added Tax Act with the reasons that, if you see, this will prevent the possibility of concealing turnover in commercial sites. At first glance, it's a good idea and we support it, but there are a lot of questions here. First of all, why is it rushing and why is it being imported like this? We have proposed to withdraw it, to make a separate Law on Amendment and Supplement to the VAT Act, to be able to pass by all procedures, because the changes are important, concern over 400 companies. It is about costs that the Bulgarian business must make within more than 200 million. lv. according to expert judgements. What's the rush? Obviously this change must be made so that it is not well understood, pass and ensure the business of three or four companies in Bulgaria on the back of the small and medium-sized business in the country. He had to hurry. The explanation is because, you see, Decree H-18 and the changes in it were a fact. What are we doing right now? The National Assembly is in a hurry to adopt a problematic bill because there is a regulation issued by the Ministry of Finance, which forces all Bulgarian traders to change their cash registers, their devices, to make huge costs. No, colleagues, we must put an end to this by failing to accept these proposals in the VAT Act and asking that Regulation H-18 be amended and that it really responds to the spirit of what is written as motives to ensure that the opportunities for non-refundability of turnover in commercial sites are introduced effective systems. According to experts, what is being proposed today will not be effective and most likely in two or three years we will again make proposals for change, and again the Bulgarian business will have to pay for new systems. This is happening again. In 2012, the cash registers were changed because they had to have a fiscal connection with the NRA. Now we change them because, if you see Z, the report wasn't enough and you need each receipt to be reported, which is not clear at all whether this database can happen and whether this database will be able to enter the NRA, to be processed, and whether the links are reliable enough. These are things in detail that, if we had normal legislation, we would have had time to debate them and look at them and make a bill that would really help and guarantee revenue in the budget and not interfere with business and not create additional costs for it. This Bill amending and supplementing the Customs Act in its motives was written that one of the objectives was to reduce the administrative burden. Today I say to the Bulgarian business: "Congratulations with this reduction of the administrative burden! " [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u21	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u22	Madam President, honourable Members! When we comment on the proposals under art. 118 of VAT, which concerns the software for sales management in commercial sites, is correct, first of all, to remind ourselves that on 19 September last year an amendment of the Ordinance H-18 under art. 118, para. 4 of the VAT Act, where tax entities under the VAT Act have undertaken to replace or to revise the fiscal devices used so far, or what colleagues have been talking about. The deadline for those registered under VAT is the end of this year and those not registered under VAT is June 2019. These amendments concern a change in the functionality of fiscal devices so as to transmit in real time to the NRA server any fiscal information and operation, as well as to print a special QR code for their issued fiscal bonds. The draft amendment was published in the public portal for discussion, pay attention on 23 June 2017, and its discussion ended on 23 July 2017. This is, keep in mind, a period with extremely low activity of both business and administration. First of all, because at this time people are either at sea or on a mountain during their vacation. Objections were published on the public portal. With very few exceptions, they were not answered or the answer was: To date, actions by the Ministry of Finance in implementing these amendments have never been taken. The Bulgarian Institute of Metrology has not received any application from any manufacturer for registration of a device to meet the requirements. The NRA has not launched a test server to be used by manufacturers of fiscal devices, i.e. cash registers, to test the new functionality and to generate test traffic to the NRA system. On December 22nd last year, the last working day before the Christmas holidays, a new draft was published on the website of the Ministry of Finance to amend the same regulation, offering a settlement of registered and operated software for sales management in commercial outlets, as well as an electronic shop. On 22 February, Mrs. Stoyanova, this year, the Committee on Budget and Finance at second reading adopted amendments to the Customs Act, including new amendments to the VAT Act. By making a retrospective of this legislative processal saga in the period from July to February this year, we should note the following: it is imperative that the operators under the VAT Act replace their fiscal devices. Note that the cost of this is between 200 to 1200 leva. on a fiscal device depending on the model. A new highly aggravated technical communication procedure shall be established between each fiscal device and the NRA server, which may lead to unpredictable disruptions in the activity of the commercial sites. The obligation of every user of a fiscal device to pay, first, a subscription of a mobile operator is not changed.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... depending on the period of use, as well as a mandatory service contract between 40 and 80 BGN. according to the types of contracts during the period of conclusion. Users of the software for managing sales or sales via an electronic store other than the maintenance, servicing and payment of all the costs of fiscal device shall be charged with additional liabilities............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They have an obligation to maintain and serve a duplicate fiscal system....................................................................................................... The introduction of the new regulation ignores already working practice in the countries of the European Union for alternative methods of declaring sales and payment to tax administrations through commercial software and the use of modern and functional technologies which, by the way, has already been introduced in Austria, the Czech Republic, Croatia and is due to be introduced in Germany in 2020. The introduction of regulations for control and collection of fissure and the way in which this is done is seriously contrary to the principles of equality, pragmatism and effectiveness. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the Cohesion Fund (ERDF), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD) and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u23	The weather, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u24	I'm done. ...there's no way to explain with a possible increase in tax collection. In conclusion, on the one hand, we have a proposal involving lobbying for some companies to sell some fiscal devices for 120 million, other companies to provide registered software again for 120 million, and, on the other hand, there is another smashing of small and medium businesses. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u25	The weather, Mr. Tishev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u26	I'm done. In para. 17 of the same article Mrs. Stoyanova proposes, these requirements we are talking about do not apply to large companies [[the President signals that time has run out]] that have integrated and automated systems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u27	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. In the manner of conduct please, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u28	Madam President, I am taking a procedure in the manner of conducting several things that have impressed me greatly. First, three minutes before the speaker read some retrospects that had nothing to do with the texts we are discussing today, and you didn't comment on it. Here he told us about the lanish snow, about the summer he told us and so on. Secondly, Madam President, after you gave him such an opportunity, without making a comment and stopping him...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u29	I've made three remarks to him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u30	...you gave him one more minute so he could read his writing, I don't know who. Because what was written, first of all, does not correspond to what is imported and discussed today, and secondly, is deeply false. Thirdly, Madam President, I am making a proposal to the President of the National Assembly, and you can hand it over to the Prime Minister, too, the Council of Ministers and the National Assembly not to work when we have the sun, when we have time for the sea, when we have snow, and perhaps we should end today's sitting, because today is minus 10 degrees... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u31	Mrs. Stoyanova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u32	...and according to the colleague who spoke earlier, this makes legislative work difficult.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u33	Mrs. Stoyanova, you could have easily said a line to your colleague. I guess you didn't want to give him an opportunity for a doppelganger or a speech. I accept some of the remarks, but another part is not, because when a bill is discussed, a retrospective can be made. As for the last part of your remark, I think it was really about speaking sooner. Come in the manner of conduct, Mr. Tarnovalysky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u34	Madam President, please, when someone has nothing to say on the Bill or rather does not want to, or is mostly ashamed to comment on what he has proposed, not to give him the opportunity to make assessments of his colleagues. Moreover, he, with his actions, violates the Rules of Procedure and tries to give assessments here, to limit the opportunity of the Members of the National Assembly to speak... [[Reply from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u35	Please don't engage in such a dialogue!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u36	With your proposal, Mrs. Stoyanova, you violated the Rules of Procedure, you took away the opportunity...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u37	Mr. Turnovallisky, I'm looking at the procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u38	By her proposal Mrs. Stoyanova took away the opportunity for all MPs to be able to make proposals on these texts, to be able to debate them. So please do not allow this to happen to the President of the Budget Committee, who is responsible for today's discussion, to behave this way. [[Strong noise and applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u39	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. I would just like to remind you that the chair cannot know who has what to say, so it is difficult to judge if the MP has nothing to say. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u40	Madam President, honourable Members! My procedure is the way I conduct myself. It is good to interrupt a MP who takes a procedure in the manner of conduct and tries to make a reply because he has something to say other than what he who makes a basic statement has expressed or wants to motivate his proposal. We haven't heard from Mrs. Stoyanova yet. It must take a replica procedure or a basic statement, only there are clearly no arguments and ways in which to protect these proposals, put back into the five-to-twelve-to-twelve, as we commented on the last day before the vacation. That's why you go out on the stand and in a procedure in the manner of keeping you talk about the nice weather summer, winter, should you stop the administration.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u41	I think you have also abused the procedure in the manner of conduct, because, firstly, I gave you 45 seconds more in the context of the speech, despite the threefold warning. Secondly, I have already made a remark to Mrs. Menda Stoyanova because she really should have made a duplicate or a statement instead of using the procedure in the manner of conduct. Are there any other speeches, honourable Members? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov. [[Declarations between the President and the rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u42	Dear colleagues, many untruths have spoken so far. I wanted to wait to hear more because I guess that's how the speeches were prepared. I want to tell you what we are debating today, what is proposed in today's bill and what will be put to the vote. Here you heard stories about cash registers, about equality, about millions and so on. I want to tell you that what is proposed to be introduced today are the requirements for the software for sales management in commercial sites, requirements for the software of electronic stores, which are currently without requirements for this software. Moreover, the requirements are introduced and I will read them to you one more time, although I read them in the report, namely: to have published the version of this software to be known by both the NRA and by those who use it, that it is software and approved version, uploaded to the NRA website, which the manufacturer or distributor ensures that it meets the requirements of the Regulation; that it does not contain modules that allow circumvention of the requirements of the Ordinance, i.e. sales rather than going to the fiscal apparatus or to the NRA, to be deleted and disappear from the memory of the software and from the hardware; that this manufacturer will not ensure that this software is not designed to change functionality to circumvent the requirements of the Ordinance, as well as to change, delete or otherwise manipulate this information. That is what we want to vote on today. You all know what is happening in all catering establishments and sales outlets. The software allows manipulation and non-reporting of sales information to the cash register, hence to the NRA, and non-reporting of sales. That's what we want to stop. It has nothing to do with the stories you've heard so far. It is said that there is a level playing field and the large retail chains are free from this. I'd like to read you the text: the requirements under para. 14 "What I read to you a short time ago " do not apply to integrated automated systems for managing commercial activity and to electronic systems with fiscal memory. " The first are IASUD, which is used in large, with over 300 cases, objects such as: BDZ, Bulgarian Post Offices, Metro. These systems were introduced a few years ago and have all these requirements. They have submitted years and years and so far, unlike other cash registers, their constant information to the NRA. Therefore, there are separate requirements for them that have been introduced a long time ago. Besides them, as you've noticed, electronic systems with fiscal memory are shut down here. These are the cash registers, honourable Members, which in many sites: small objects, production sites, are not related to sales management software at all. You all know that sales management software is where the object has a computer. These are usually shops and catering establishments and on this software all purchased goods are uploaded. The software is written by selling all sales of these goods. This is the key to the information that the NRA currently has in all its inquiries found to be the subject of absolute manipulation. That's what we want to stop. We want to create conditions for e-shops to be able to account for their sales and for the NRA, to account for their turnover and to pay their taxes. This is what we want to stop with this bill. Apparently, colleagues either don't understand or pretend they don't understand. From the previous Mr. Turnovalyski, the only financier who is in the Budget Committee, as you have noticed, even said that such changes are important for tightening control and for brightening the economy, but there are procedural remarks in the way they happen. The other colleagues, unfortunately, are not on the Budget Committee. We had two meetings in which we commented very thoroughly on each text and precisely as a result of these comments and discussions in the Budget Committee, which were invited not only representatives of the state institutions, but also of those companies that produce such software, and we heard their opinion. In fact, that's where those adjustments were born that we're talking about. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Dear colleagues, be careful who and what says from this tribune, because obviously the goal is to manipulate what it is really about!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u43	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. We accept your recommendation for attention to colleagues from GERB because the other would mean censorship. Here's a line for you, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, slow and irritable tried to convince us of what you need to strengthen control? Didn't you have control so far? It became clear that there are breakthroughs in the Ministry of Customs, where a lot of money is collected for the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. You are not taking any measures in the Customs Agency, you are merely stating that you have defeated the smuggling of 6% for tobacco products and cigarettes and are reducing, and specifically for the control of the NRA you must exercise the entire repression of the state over small and medium businesses, and that the costs are at the expense of the small and medium business. Over 400,000 cameras! Over one million directly affected! And explain that you don't raise taxes. You indirectly take out of the pocket of the Bulgarian much more money than if there was a fair tax.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u45	That was a first line. Are there any other lines? Mr. Tishev, come in for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u46	Mrs. President, Mrs. Stoyanova, ladies and gentlemen! Keep in mind that whatever Mrs. Stoyanova says, it's about money. Is it true that after the changes in the Ordinance of last year 120 million leva should pay more for the business for new cash registers? Is it true that after these changes that we are currently discussing, more than 120 million still has to pay the small and medium business? With two minor changes, over a quarter of a billion leva the small and medium-sized business must take out of its pocket and pay them, which is then transferred to the end user, who should also remove them. [[(Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u47	You'll be able to get a douche.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u48	It is precisely on the subject, because with these changes we are making, over 120 million should be paid by small and medium-sized businesses, not large companies. Is it true that there are more modern fiscal methods that are used in part of the European Union, which, however, have a much lower cost that we can apply, but obviously we do not want to? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u49	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Mrs. Naydenova, come in for a third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u50	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm making a line because since the morning the phones of our colleagues, who are personal doctors, are constantly ringing. Remember, they are also by law traders. So they're affected, too. I don't think their discontent should be ignored either. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Naydenova. Here's your coat, dear Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u52	Dear colleagues, I will not respond to Mr. Iankov's line because it is clear that he pleads not for what the cost of the business or for letting the business hide its speed, I do not know. Regarding Mr. Tishev's line. Mr. Tishev, I'm going to ask you to read the Bill we are debating today. This is about sales management software. Those fiscal devices, which are two types of cash register or fiscal printer, which are related to this computer, on which there is sales management software, this is what we are talking about here, not those cash registers in personal doctors, other types of small business and manufacturing enterprises that do not use such electronic software. Make a difference between these things. That is the subject we are discussing today. The numbers that are being thrown here, 120 million, another 120 million, were said and some 200 million, are only meant to come out as headlines in the papers and deceive people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u53	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Mr. Turnover, come in for a personal explanation. It's debatable whether it was a commendation or a remark. Let's hear how you felt.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u54	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I confirm what I have said that these changes are very important. Yeah, there's a problem, there's a vice. I guess the administration can't handle that. Looks like he needs a change. But, dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you missed, after speaking again as a last resort, explaining to your colleagues that what is offered technically and as a method is not the best. We're making a change... [[Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova: This is not a personal explanation, he makes an additional line.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u55	Let's give him a chance to continue with his personal explanations.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u56	... You have tried to mislead the House that, in my speech, I fully accept all that has been proposed. No, on the contrary, Mrs. Stoyanova! You are manipulating and again I would like to stress that, with the haste we are going to do today, there is an attempt to make legislation because of a legislative act that has entered into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u57	What did you personally feel offended about?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u58	From Mrs. Stoyanova's attempt to speak from the last instance and to give assessments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u59	Thank you, Mr. Turnover. The word for speech is Mr. Ivan Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u60	Madam President, honourable Members! I didn't think we'd be discussing a similar topic in this room today. The proposed bill at second reading represents a higher form of hypocrisy against Bulgarian traders. First of all, we have a decree of the Ministry of Finance, which introduces additional aggravations and, secondly, under a pretext, see that we will fix the state, fill the treasury and give them to the Bulgarian citizens, rob the small and medium businesses because they will be the ultimate victims of this situation. What do I mean? Mrs. Stoyanova was just telling us that with this software, with these cash registers, you see, things were going to be okay because there was no collection at the moment, there were speed hiding. Ms. Stoyanova, esteemed governors, current software, current money, simcards and whatever else you can think of, which were taken hundreds of millions of leva by Bulgarian traders, were again introduced by you in the same way, by your government with the same motives. At some point it turns out that what you introduced years ago isn't working today, and now you want 280 million to come out of these people's pockets again. They're not just gonna come out of these people's pockets, they're gonna come out of every one of us that goes to the store because this guy has to make some money. What are we doing?! You come in here and act like a nurse in kindergarten who tells the kid to watch the bunny and at the same time stick the needle in the back. [[Loud noise and lines. Laughter. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u61	Please, Mr. Ivanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u62	That's exactly what you're doing right now! You hypnotize the bunny like the snake that wants to eat it. At the same time, you're doing this... [[(Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova:]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u63	I made an observation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u64	Currently you want to convince the MPs to aggravate the Bulgarian citizens with 280 million leva. It's money that's gonna come out of your pocket. It's not an excuse for the incompetence of agencies, you know, employees, anyone else who can't handle money that you've already taken from them to introduce fiscal control systems, and you claim they don't work. You made them give the money, and now you're saying that the decision you made years ago and forced them to make is not working, give me a new one! How long are we gonna do these experiments? Until when?! Indeed, that is the main question. Because next year, you're gonna come up with something else, not cell phones, satellite phones, maybe they need to connect, some far more serious system. What are we doing? This is the main question: let's stop harassing the Bulgarian traders, because in the end this money will go into someone's pocket. The question is, who? [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u65	That was Mr. Ivanov's statement. Are there any lines to that statement? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u66	Mr. Ivanov, first of all, with this law, we are not validating any regulation that has entered into force. You have to understand! That at the moment there is a draft regulation uploaded to the site is positive because it is good, when we adopt legislation, to know what will happen in the regulation as well. It is precisely because the amendment to Regulation No H-18 was uploaded and we looked at it on the site that we have made a number of changes to the Budget Commission, which you cannot know, of course. We're robbing the business?! Please! Such suggestions with some figures attached to them were 280 million, then they could become 380, and I don't know how much they just aim only to manipulate public opinion. It is very important that you know, honourable Members, that really changes are being made and will continue to be made because technology is also developing. I'd like to ask Mr. Ivanov: is his phone from 2011? I guess he upgraded it, at least if it's the same phone. [[(Reply from National Representative Dragomir Stoynev:]] As technology goes, there's nothing wrong with getting satellite phones into this system. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u67	Honourable Members, I request silence in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u68	I don't see anything wrong with that, because we're back in line. There are European countries that are really introducing these innovative control technologies. But if we take this big step, you're gonna be screaming here, gentlemen! Because in my opinion right now you are pursuing two goals: one goal is populism, to be heard by the people, the small and middle business, whose defender you are, look at the bad GERB what they are doing. The second goal, perhaps somewhere, hurts for the hidden speed, which will no longer be hidden. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u69	Because of the injection, perhaps, Mrs. Stoyanova, excuse me. Is there anyone else who wants to say a line to Mr. Ivanov? I won't. Hole, Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u70	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, you speak these things well, but we would have known them and we could have taken an attitude if this bill had actually passed two readings and not today to drop it here and we would have been having debates just in the room and this thing would have happened in a few minutes. The truth is, Mrs. Stoyanova, well, you've made a good comparison with the phones, but my number has been since 1998, but let me tell you that since 1998, the software updates on the phones are free, unlike what you're offering right now. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From what I can see, the amount is now close to 300 million. [[Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] I have a feeling we're looking to raise money today to buy the electricity distribution company CEZ, Mrs. Stoyanova. Is that what we're doing today?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u71	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Procedure in the manner of holding Mr. Emil Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Unlike everyone else, I am pleased with your manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u73	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u74	You're trying to balance it out. I have a favor to ask of you. Please make a timely announcement of the agenda, because we find some of our colleagues unprepared and they are surprised. We heard all about bunnies, phones, weather reports, including here we have two colleagues who worked at the NRA from Plovdiv, and they are solving some problems of their own. Please, since we've heard absolutely everything on the subject, let's move on to the vote, because obviously nothing new will be learned but the bunnies, the phones and whatnot. My suggestion is to end the debate and move on to a vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u75	Is there a reverse offer? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u76	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm making a reverse offer. First of all, it is not enough that these changes are made at one reading and in a truly extremely low way, such a change is made that affects small and medium-sized businesses... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u77	It doesn't sound good.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u78	Yes, because it is a practice, Madam President, which GERB use very well and do not allow the Bulgarian MPs to protect the interest of the people who have chosen them here. It is about Bulgarian entrepreneurs who will be racketed by the political party GERB worth about 200 million. lv. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB. Claps from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This should be known and there should be a debate on this topic because GERB promise some things in the elections, and when they come to power, they do the opposite. Now is the time to know that GERB will take 200 million. lv. by Bulgarian citizens. [[Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova.]] In the way Menda Stoyanova behaves, Mrs. Stoyanova, not so hysterically, we know that you want to pass this point quickly, but you, if you really respected this institution and, of course, the political party GERB respected this bill, the amendments had to be viewed on two readings. We protest sharp, first of all, that they are viewed in secret and behind-the-scenes reading. This is becoming your way of doing business. In view of today's scandals to make similar amendments to the laws and given that people are so worried and do not have confidence in what is happening in the country and there is no predictability, we insist that this debate continue with the hope that GERB will give up and that Menda Stoyanova will withdraw precisely this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u79	I get it. It's a motion to continue the debate. Are there any other statements? [[(Reply from the rapporteur Menda Stoyanova: There is a proposal, we should vote on it.]] But there was a reverse suggestion that the debate should continue. [[Loud noise and lines.]] I'm voting on the procedural proposal. [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u80	There are rules, gentlemen! [[Loud noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u81	Take it easy! We proceed to the vote on the procedural proposal... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u82	For what, ma'am, are we voting? I don't get it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u83	Mrs. Stoyanova, wait for Mrs. Dimitrov's proposal to end the debate. Vote 152 MPs: for 94, against 57, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here's a proposal for a re-vote, most likely. Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u84	Madam President, honourable Members! I saw two people enter the room and I want a re-vote procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u85	Thank you. Because of these two people who have entered the room, a re-voting procedure. Vote 156 MPs: for 93, against 62, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on paragraphs 12 and 13 in the Commission's version, which were read long before we concluded the debate on these paragraphs. Vote 155 MPs: 87, against 62, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Here you are for a procedural proposal most likely.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u86	Thank you, Madam President. I am doing a re-voting procedure because MPs have failed to vote and because of the importance of the vote, we want a name check. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u87	It's a re-vote. [[Loud noise and lines. The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is leaving the hall.]] First, name check. [[Loud noise and lines.]] Please, the lists. When there's a proposal for a name check, you start with it first. [[Reply from rapporteur Menda Stoyanova. Loud noise and lines.]] Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddi - absent Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - absent Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - absent Andon Dimov Donchev - absent Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - absent Burhan Ilyazov Abase - here Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - absent Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - absent Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - absent Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - absent Violeta Ruseva Jeleva - absent Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Vasileva - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - absent Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - absent Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - absent Georgi Kolev Kolev - absent Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov - absent Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - absent Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - absent Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - absent Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Gamishev - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - absent Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - absent Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - absent Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - absent Yordanka Ivanova Fikirliyska - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - absent Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - absent Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Jankov - absent Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Kristina Maximova Sidorova - absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - absent Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - here Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - absent Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - absent Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - absent Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - absent Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - absent Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - absent Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Petya Tsvetanova Avramova - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - absent Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Radoslava Plamen Chekanska - here Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Ralitsa Trilkova Dobreva - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - here Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Rumen Vassilev Gechev - absent Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - absent Rumen Petrov Genov - here Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Sevim Ismail Ali - here Sergey Manushov Kichikov - here Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - absent Simeon Christov Simeonov - here Slavi Dichev Netzov - absent Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - absent Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Spas Yanev Panchev - absent Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - absent Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stefan Apostolicov - here Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Tanner Mehmed Ali - here Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Todor Baychev - absent Toma Lubomirov Bikov - absent Thomas Nikolov Tomov - absent Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov - here Halil Recepov Letifov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hristo Georgiev Gajev - here Hristo Grudev Grudev - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - absent Julian Krastev Angelov - here Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Yavor Bozhilov Notev - here Yavor Rumenov Bojankov - absent Dear Members of the Parliament, there is a quorum. 123 MPs are present. We're stepping in, fellow Members, to re-vote. We're going over paragraphs 12 and 13, whatever the offer was. Vote 104 MPs: 90 against 2, abstention 12. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u88	Come in for a negative vote, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u89	He didn't vote, he didn't vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u90	But you didn't vote!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u91	How could I not have voted?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u92	He didn't vote to check it out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u93	Colleagues, let's see if I voted and then yell! I'll wait. Check, please, very please, the vote to let colleagues know.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u94	I understand, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u95	Tell them, not me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u96	He has also voted the second time Mr. Ermenkov and has the right to a negative vote. Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u97	Guys, don't play small, it doesn't suit you! [[Calls from the bottom of the room.]] After CEZ, nothing suits you anymore! Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Chairman! I'm taking a negative vote for three reasons. The first reason is that once again the Bulgarian legislation violates the rules we have adopted and changes are introduced through the back door, for which there is no assessment of the impact. Secondly, no further comments can be heard at all, not to mention making proposals between first and second readings. The second reason why I voted against is that the managers once again treat the small and medium business as a sack of flour, which can be pummel, tupan, and constantly collect money from it, and then talk about some sustainability of the development of the economy. Yeah, the small and medium-sized business is those bastards who can take you down. That's right! Because they're not your subordinates and they don't pay you and they can't pay you. And now you're taking revenge on them by trying to get them about 200 million levs. additionally. They won't forgive you, but that's another topic. And the third, which is why I voted against, is that the importers of this proposal have missed telling us also those benefiting companies who will be given the opportunity to make their new devices and those benefiting companies who will be given the opportunity to build their new software. I'm sure they know the names. Thank you. [[Replications. Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u98	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We continue to review the texts. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u99	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In the Insurance Code (promote, SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 126, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 2. Everywhere in the Law, the words "chloe." 30, para. 1, t. 11 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act 30, para. 1, t. 12 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u100	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 14 with the text which has been presented as a Commission proposal. Vote 89 MPs: 83 against 2, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u101	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In the Law on the Activity of collective investment schemes and of other collective investment enterprises (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24b the words "art." The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with the examination 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) in para. 5 words. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): the following (b) in para. 6 words................................................................................. 3, p. 11.. 13.. are replaced (c) in para. 7 words................................................................................. The following points are inserted after
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u102	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 15 with a text proposed by the Commission. Vote 88 MPs: 81 against 3, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u103	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 16: ......... 16........................................... In the Financial Instruments Markets Act (CB, No. 15 of 2018, p.o.b., p.o. 16 from 2018) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 6 after the words 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82, para. 7 sentence first the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 4 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 113, para. 3 sentence first the words................................................................................................ The following 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 144, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 227 the words "supplied' shall be replaced by "supplied'. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 245, p. 1 words.............................................................................. 223, para. The following points are inserted after point 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 285, para. 1, t. 2 point (b) the words (c). 776, para. 1, t. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 77b, para. 1, t. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 2 words.............................................................................. 33, para. 2 and 3 and 3 shall be replaced by the following: 33, para. 2. The words................................................................................................ Art. 227a, Art. Art. 227c, Art. 227d, para. Art. 1, art. Art. 227g. Art. 227c, Art. Art. 227m, Art. Art. 227n, Art. 227p "s' are deleted; (b) c. 14 words. 53, para. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation and for the implementation of Regulation (EU, 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 292 words everywhere. the following points are inserted after point 6a (Commission Implementing Regulation 10. An annex to § 1 shall be created. 10: Annex to § 1, point (c) 10 Professional clients Section I Clients who are considered professional clients in respect of all investment services, investment activities and financial instruments: 1. Persons requiring authorisation to operate on the financial markets or whose activity on those markets is otherwise regulated by the national law of a Member State, irrespective of whether it is in conformity with a Union Directive, and persons authorised to carry out those activities or otherwise regulated by third country legislation, as follows: (a) credit institutions; (b) investment firms; (c) other financial institutions subject to licensing or otherwise regulated; (d) insurance companies; (e) collective investment undertakings and their management companies; (f) pension funds and pension corporations; (g) persons trading on an own account with goods or commodity derivatives; (h) local companies; (i) other institutional investors. 2. Large enterprises meeting at least two of the following conditions: (a) the balance sheet value of at least the equivalent of EUR 20 000 000; (b) pure turnover of at least the equivalent of EUR 40 000 000; (c) own funds at least the equivalent of EUR 2 000 000. 3. National and regional authorities of state power, state bodies involved in government debt management, central banks, international and supranational institutions such as the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the European Investment Bank, and other similar international organisations. 4. Other institutional investors whose main activity is investing in financial instruments, including entities that carry out securitisation of assets or other financing transactions. Section II Clients who can be considered at their request for professional clients 1. Identification criteria: Customers shall meet at least two of the following criteria: (a) during the previous four quarters, the person entered into, on average, 10 transactions with a significant volume on a relevant market for a quarter; (b) the value of the investment portfolio of the person involving financial instruments and cash deposits is more than the equivalent of EUR 500 000; (c) the person works or has worked in the financial sector not less than one year in office which requires knowledge of the relevant transactions or services. 2. Procedure: Customers outside Section I of the Annex, including public sector organisations, local public authorities, municipalities and private individual investors, may ask the investment firm not to apply any of the requirements applicable to retail investors. The investment firm may treat such clients as retail clients if they comply with the requirements set out below and subject to the procedure described. In order to be treated as professional clients, those persons may request to be treated as professional clients subject to the following: The investment firm shall not accept that the persons referred to in point (a) of paragraph 1 shall not be considered to be members of the investment firm. 1 have knowledge and experience of the market comparable to those of the persons referred to in Section I without carrying out the necessary assessment. The investment firm shall assess the knowledge and experience of the client in terms of whether the client can take investment decisions and take the risks associated with specific transactions and services. The assessment shall be carried out in respect of the persons managing and representing the client or who are entitled to carry out the relevant transactions on his behalf and on his behalf. (a) clients must request in writing to the investment firm to be treated as professional clients in general either in relation to certain investment services or transactions or to a particular type of transaction or investment product; (b) the investment firm shall be obliged to warn in writing the client that it will not benefit from the relevant protection in the provision of services and the performance of activities by the investment firm, as well as from the right to be compensated by the Fund to compensate investors in financial instruments; (c) the client must declare in a document separate from the contract that he has been notified of the consequences referred to in point (b); (d) Before deciding to treat the client as a professional client, the investment firm must take the necessary steps to ensure that the client meets the requirements of this paragraph. 1. The investment firm shall apply appropriate written internal policies and procedures to categorize customers. Professional clients should inform the investment firm of any change that may lead to a change in their categorisation. If the investment firm finds that a client has ceased to meet the conditions under which it is classified as a professional client, it shall take the necessary measures to reflect the change.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u104	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 16 with a text proposed by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 5. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u105	Proposal by the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 17: Seventeen. In the Law on the Public Offering of Securities (prom., SG No. ...) all over the words. 30, para. 1, t. 5 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act is replaced by art. 30, para. 1, t. 3 of the Financial Supervision Commission Act
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u106	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 17 with a text proposed by the rapporteur. Vote 88 MPs: 81 against 3, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u107	Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 18: .............................................................................. In the Financial Supervision Commission Act (prom., SG No. ...) in the Annex to art. 27, para. 1 in Section IV, items III and IV, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u108	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 18 with the text proposed by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 72 against 3, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u109	Proposal from the National Representative Menda Stoyanova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 19: "Seriously, I'm Paragraphs 10 and 11 shall enter into force as from 1 January 2018, and § 15 and 16 shall enter into force from 16 February 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u110	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 19 with a text proposed by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 79, against 5, abstention 3. The offer is accepted. Dear Members of the National Assembly, let's greet the guests of the group of students from the 109 school of Smirnenski, Sofia. Sofia, and students from the UNWE. [[Applause.]] Let's move on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE OLD MIGRATION AND THE OLD MOBILITY, CONTINUATION. Mr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u111	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The next paragraph is § 14. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u112	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14, which shall become § 15, and which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: 84, none, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u113	Proposal by the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Nikolay Sirakov for the creation of a new § 14a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 21 5 is amended ,(5) When the holder of the Blue Card of the European Union has used its rights under para. 1 and 2 and has not started work as well as when the provisions of para 2 are not complied with. 4, The Employment Agency shall draw up a reasoned proposal to the Ministry of Interior for the withdrawal or for the non-renewal of the Blue Card of the European Union.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u114	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 16 with a text proposed by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 75, against 2, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u115	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier' and the last indent is inserted and added for the period of the transfer or transfer. 2. A t is created. 5. It's five o'clock. authorised to move to an intra-corporate transfer. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u116	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal for the revision of the wording of § 15 which shall become § 17. Vote 87 MPs: 77 against 2, abstention 8. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u117	According to § 16 under importer there is a proposal from the MPs Christian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 words issued in 15 days are replaced by a presentation in 10 days. 2. In para. 3 after the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u118	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission of § 16, which shall become § 18. They voted 86 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u119	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u120	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 19, supported by the Commission. Vote 84 MPs: 77 against 3, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u121	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the word "supplier' is replaced by "supplier', and after the word "supplier' is added, "supplier' or "supplier'. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 is finally a comma and is added to include which is derived from agreements of the European Union with third countries. 3. They're creating a t. 5 and 6: It's five o'clock. have been granted a residence permit and a work type of the European Union Blue Card. 6. have been authorised for an intra-corporate transfer person.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u122	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 18 proposed by the Commission, which shall become § 20. 90 MPs voted: 79, against 1, abstention 10. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u123	Proposal by the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Nikolay Sirakov for the creation of a new § 18a. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 21: .................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31, para. 1 the word "show' is replaced by "shown'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u124	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal to create a new § 21 with a text proposed by the Commission. Vote 89 MPs: 81 against 4, abstention 4. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u125	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 32, para. 1 the word "sent" is replaced by "sent" and the word "sent" is replaced by "sent."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u126	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 19, which shall become § 22. They voted 93 MPs: 78, against 1, abstention 14. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u127	No proposals have been made under paragraphs 20 and 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 23. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u128	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote. The first is the text of the importer supported by the Commission for § 20, which becomes § 23 and the second is the text of the importer for § 21, which becomes § 24 and is supported by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 76 against 3, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u129	Under § 22 under the importer.. a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Nikolay Sirakov. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u130	Are you withdrawing him, Mrs. Damyanova? Okay. Thank you. Continue with the other text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u131	Proposal by the National Representative Svetlana Angelova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 36 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: s) Citizens of third countries who are accepted as researchers and have a contract with a research organisation to conduct research within a research project, engage in employment, including academic, in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria without permission to work for the duration of the project and with authorised residence, according to art. 24b, para. 1 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 2. A new para is being created. 2: suppliers of third countries who have been accepted as researchers in another Member State of the European Union, Member State of the European Economic Area Agreement or of the Swiss Confederation may exercise employment, including academic, in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria without permission to work in compliance with the requirements of art. 24b, para. 7 and 9 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. The creation of para. 3: After completion of the research project under para. 1 The third-country national shall have the right, within 9 months, to seek and take up employment and to use employment intermediary services under the Employment Promotion Act after submitting an application for registration with the Employment Agency within 7 working days. 4. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 4 and in it after the words. The following shall be added to the list: 5. The creation of para. 5. The contract referred to in paragraph 1 shall be signed on behalf of the European Union and shall be signed on behalf of the European Union and shall be signed on behalf of the Union. 1 contains conditions concerning the conduct and completion of the study, including in the territory of other second Member States, where that is required.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u132	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission, to the wording of § 22, which shall become § 25. Vote 98 MPs: 81 against 5, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u133	No proposals have been made under paragraphs 23 and 24 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23 which shall become § 26. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u134	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I put two texts to the vote: the first is the text of the importer, which is supported by the Commission, for § 23, which becomes § 26, and the text of the importer supported by the Commission, for § 24, which becomes § 27. Vote 92 MPs: 85 against 1, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u135	According to § 25 of the importer there is a proposal of the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Nikolay Sirakov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 Article 3 is replaced by the following: 38a: Art. 38a. (1) Citizens of third countries who have been accepted as interns under a contract of employment with a condition for internship with a local employer, are employed in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria without permission to work for the duration of the internship and authorised residence under art. 24c, para. 1 of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. (2) The labor contract under para. 1 contains an internship programme and conditions for carrying out theoretical and practical training. (3) The cases under para. 1 shall be registered with the Employment Agency by the employer who conducts the service.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u136	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of § 25 proposed by the Commission, which shall become § 28. Vote 94 MPs: 82 against 1, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u137	No proposals have been made under paragraphs 26 and 27 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 29. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u138	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put two texts to the vote, which shall be the first text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 29, and the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 30. Both texts shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 99 MPs: 92 against 1, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u139	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 28, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 49 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words "free movement', a comma shall be placed and added, including when posted or dispatched within the framework of the provision of services. 2. A new para is being created. 3: of the rights under para. 2 members of families under Art. 2 shall also be used. 9, para. 1, t. Two, three, five and six. 3. Previously on AMC's... 3 and 4 become respectively. Four and five.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u140	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 28, which shall become § 31. Vote 107 MPs: 94 against 1, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u141	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss Article 3 is replaced by the following: 53a: Art. 53a (1) From the rights of art. 49, para. 2 holders of a permit for long stay as researchers, students, interns, students and volunteers shall also be granted. (2) The tax relief under art. 49, para. 2, p. 12 shall not apply where the registered or usual residence of the family members of a researcher for whom he submits the relevant declaration is outside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u142	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for a text of § 29, which shall become § 32. They voted 99 MPs: 89 against 1, abstention 9. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u143	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 30, which shall become § 33: ................................................ Article 54 is amended as follows: Art. 54. (1) From the rights under art. 49, para. 2, p. 3 s 9 shall also be used: 1. foreigners who have received permission to work or permission to carry out freelance activities; 2. The foreigners under art. 9, para. 3 and 4 as well as under art. 24, para. 3 in the case of registration of short-term employment. (2) From the rights under art. 49, para. 2, p. 3 six, eight and nine shall also enjoy foreigners with access to the labour market under international contracts concluded on the basis of art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u144	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 30, which shall become § 33. Vote 108 MPs: 92 against 2, abstention 14. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u145	In the following paragraphs from 31 by importer up to 39 including no proposals have been made. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 34. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 35. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 36. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 37. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 38. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 39. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 37, which shall become § 40. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 41. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 39, which shall become § 42.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u146	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the following texts of an importer which are supported by the Commission: the text for § 31 which becomes § 34; the text for § 32, which becomes § 35; the text for § 33 which becomes § 36; the text for § 34, which becomes § 37; the text for § 35, which becomes § 38; the text for § 36, which becomes § 39; the text for § 37, which becomes § 40; the text for § 38, which becomes § 41; and the text for § 39, which becomes § 42. Please vote. They voted 106 MPs: 90, against 2, abstention 14. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u147	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 40, which shall become § 43: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 75a: Art. 75a. (1) A third-country national who provides a labour force or is accepted as seconded or dispatched to the Republic of Bulgaria within the framework of the provision of services without the relevant permission or registration in the Employment Agency shall be punished with a fine of 500 to 5000 BGN. (2) The punishment under para. 1 shall also be imposed on an employer - a natural person for whom a foreigner provides a labour force or has accepted legally staying third-country nationals - without the relevant permission or registration in the Employment Agency and an employer - a legal person shall be subject to a penalty of 2000 to 20 000 BGN, unless it is subject to a more severe penalty. (3) The punishment under para. 1 is also required in cases where employment is carried out under the conditions of art. 24, para. 3 by a foreigner who holds a short-stay visa on grounds other than seasonal work. (4) When the infringements under para. 1 and 2 are repeated, a fine from 1000 to 10 000 BGN is imposed, and legal persons are subject to a penalty of 4,000 to 40,000 BGN. (5) The punishments under para. 1 and 2 shall also be imposed in cases where a workforce is provided under the conditions of art. 8, para. 1 from a foreigner who has no right to access the labour market. (6) The punishments under para. 2, 4 and 5 shall be imposed on the employer for each illegally employed resident foreigner.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u148	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 40, which shall become § 43. They voted 106 MPs: 90 against 1, abstention 15. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u149	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 41, which shall become § 44.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u150	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer, which shall be supported by the Commission for § 41, which shall become § 44. Vote 96 MPs: 84 against 1, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u151	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 42, which shall become § 45: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 77 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: scrubbing the prohibition of art. 13, para. 1 shall be punished with a fine from 750 to 7500 BGN, unless it is subject to more severe punishment. 2. A new para is being created. 2: When the infringement referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article is committed, the competent authority of the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States of the infringement referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article. 1 is carried out by an employer of a legal person, a penalty of 3,000 to 30 000 BGN is imposed. 3. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: When the infringements referred to in paragraph 3 of this Article are committed, the competent authority of the Member State concerned shall inform the other Member States and the Commission of the reasons for the breach of paragraph 3 of this Article. 1 and 2 are repeated, a fine from 1500 to 15 000 BGN is imposed, and legal persons are subject to a penalty of 6,000 to 60 000 BGN. (4) The punishments under para. 1 " 3" is imposed on the employer for each employed illegally resident foreigner. 4. So far, the Al. 2 becomes para. 5 and in it the words are said. 1 which are legal entities, cannot be replaced by..........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u152	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 42, which shall become § 45. Vote 97 MPs: 79, against 2, abstention 16. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u153	According to § 43 by importer there is a proposal from the MPs Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva. The Commission supports the proposal referred to in (a) and does not support it under (b). "28b." A contract with an internship condition shall be the contract under art. 233b of the Labour Code. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 43, which shall become § 46: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: a) create t. 5a and 5b: 5a. The freelance activity is the activity within the meaning of § 1, p. 9 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria. 5b. "Volunteering' is a third-country national who has been admitted to the territory of a Member State for participation in a volunteering programme within the European Voluntary Service. (b) c. 8 shall be added at the end under the terms of art. 121a, para. 1, t. 2 (a) and (b) 2, p. 2 of the Labour Code. c) create t. 12a "12c: It's 12 o'clock. He is a third-country national who holds a PhD or the required degree of higher education for access to doctoral programs, selected by a research organisation to develop a research project and accepted on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for carrying out research activities with the relevant qualification. 12b. It is a creative process that is being carried out systematically in order to increase the volume of knowledge, including knowledge about man, culture and society, as well as the use of this stock of knowledge in order to find new applications thereof. 12c. The Scientific Research Organisation is a public or private organization that conducts research and is established in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation. (d) shall be established. 14a: 14a. "Educational project" is a set of educational actions carried out by school in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in cooperation with similar schools in a third country for the purpose of exchange in the field of culture and knowledge. (e) create a t. 15a and 15b: 15pm. He is a person within the meaning of art. 27, para. 2, p. 2 and 3 of the Employment Promotion Act. 15b. "Acceptable organization" is a research organization, higher school, school, organization responsible for a volunteering program, or an organization hosted interns located in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria and established in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation. (f) To be created t. 16a: 16a. "Volunteer service' is a programme of practical solidarity, recognised by the Republic of Bulgaria or by the European Union and pursuing non-economic objectives of common interest, and its activities are carried out free of charge and with the right to reimbursement, including per diem. (g) create a t. 28a "28e": It's 28a. He is a third-country national who has a higher education or who participates in an education course for higher education in a third country and who has been accepted in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria under an internship programme for acquired knowledge, practical skills and experience in the conditions of professional environment. "28b." He is a third-country national within the meaning of art. 66, para. 2 and 3 of the Higher Education Act, which is trained in a regular form of training, which may include a preliminary preparatory course and/or compulsory internship. 28c. A contract with an internship condition shall be the contract under art. 233b of the Labour Code. 28 years. The school is a public or private institution within the meaning of art. 25, para. 1 of the Preschool and School Education Act, which participates in a program for student exchange or educational project. 28e. He is a third-country national within the meaning of art. 173, para. 1 of the Law on pre-school and school education, which was adopted in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria in a program for student exchange or in an educational project carried out by the school. (h) a new item shall be created. 32: "32." The family members of a foreigner with asylum or international protection shall be persons within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 3 of the Additional Provisions of the Asylum and Refugees Act. (i) the current t. 32 ct. 33. 2. In § 2: (a) points 3 and 4 are repealed; (b) To be created t. 11: "11." Directive 2016/801/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 May 2016 on conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purpose of conducting research, studies, internship, volunteering, student exchange programmes or educational projects and work under the "au pair' programmes (OB, L 132/21 of 21 May 2016)) (see Annex I to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009).
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u154	Thank you. An official statement, Dr. Ademov. The letter "b" in the proposal of the importers is texted: the letter "b" is amended as well and continues downwards, including the text you have proposed. Can we get the text straight, because I'm going to put it to the vote. [[Out of microphone specify.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u155	From the proposal of the MPs Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva, the Commission supports the proposal under the letter......................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u156	Got it. The letter "b' includes the letter "j', the unsupported part. [[Define out of microphones.]] Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported part of the proposal by the MPs Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva. Please vote. They voted 82 MPs: 13 against 9, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for a text of § 43, which shall become § 46. Please vote. [[Replications outside the microphones.]] Vote 88 MPs: For 63, against 2, abstention 23. Mr. Kirilov, re-vote procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u157	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I ask for a re-vote, as there have been fellow Members entering the plenary who have failed to vote, although you have properly extended voting time, seeing the situation in plenary. I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u158	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I am rethinking the version that the Commission proposes for a text of § 43, which becomes § 46. Please vote. Vote 79 MPs: 72 against 3, abstention 4. The offer is accepted. I'm calling a recess for 30 minutes. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u159	Ladies and gentlemen, we are continuing our work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u160	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u161	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. Vote 79 MPs: 72, none, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u162	According to § 44 by importer there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Nikolay Sirakov. The Commission supports the proposal referred to in point (b) and in points (a), (b) and (c), (d) and (d) shall support the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva. The Commission shall support the proposal referred to in point (d) in its first part and point (e) and shall not accept it in the remainder. [[Reply by National Representative Galya Zaharieva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u163	You withdraw the offer to his unsupported unit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u164	Proposal by MP Stanislav Stanilov: In § 44, paragraph 4 is replaced by the following: 2 The following Appendix shall be made of the Final Provisions: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24c, para. 1, at the end of the day, students accepted in a daily form of training in vocational colleges and vocational training centres are added. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 44, which shall become § 47: ss ss s s s s s In the Law on Foreigners in the Republic of Bulgaria (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 17 a dash shall be inserted at the end and added in the order of art. 24n (s) and 24n (s) and 24n (s) and 24n (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) and (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (s) (b) To be created t. 21: ..21. wish to volunteer within the European Voluntary Service within the meaning of art. 40, para. 2 of the Law on Youth under the order of art. 24o. 2. Article 24b is amended as follows: Art. 24b. (1) Long-stay permit may also be granted by foreigners who are in possession of a visa under art. 15, para. 1 and are researchers with a contract for the development of a research project with a research organisation based in the Republic of Bulgaria, included in the register under art. 7b, para. 1, t. 1 of the Law on the Promotion of Research. (2) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued for a period of not less than one year. In case the contract is shorter, the authorisation shall be granted for the duration of the contract extended by 9 months and may be renewed on grounds of re-issue under the Labour Migration and Labour Mobility Act. (3) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued in accordance with the requirements of Council Regulation (EC) No 1032002 of 13 June 2002 on the uniform format of residence permits for third-country nationals, with a reference to the field on a scientific worker. (4) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued in accordance with the rules of application of the law. (5) "Migration" Directorate, sector/group "Migration" at the Sofia Directorate of Interior or the respective Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior shall inform the applicant in writing of the authorisation under para. 1 no later than 14 days from the date of its submission. (6) Permission for long stay may also be granted to members of the family of a researcher on the basis of art. 24, para. 1, t. 13 for the duration of the residence permit of the researcher if they meet the conditions of art. 24, para. 2. (7) A foreigner who has been accepted as a research worker in another Member State of the European Union may carry out part of his research in the Republic of Bulgaria for up to 180 days in any period of 360 days on the basis of a contract concluded with a research organisation in the first Member State under conditions and by order laid down by the Rules for Law Enforcement. (8) In the cases under para. 7 the host research organisation in the first Member State shall notify the competent authorities of the first Member State and of the Republic of Bulgaria of the planned part of the scientific study in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria within the period of validity of the authorisation under para. 1, under conditions and in order laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (9) Permission under para. 1 may also receive a foreigner who holds a valid residence permit issued by the first Member State and who intends to conduct part of his scientific research in a research organisation in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for a period of more than 180 days but not more than two years. The Republic of Bulgaria shall notify its decision to the first Member State. (10) In the cases referred to in para. 9 The authorisation shall be issued in accordance with the requirements of Council Regulation (EC) No 1032002 of 13 June 2002 on the uniform format of residence permits for third-country nationals, and the field of the (11) The simultaneous notification under para. 8 and applying for authorisation under para. 9. The application may be lodged no later than 30 days before the expiry of the period specified in the notification. (12) Permission under para. 6 may also receive members of the family of a researcher under para. 7 and 9 holding a valid residence permit issued by the first Member State for the period until the expiry of the residence permit of the researcher in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (13) Permission for long stay for up to 9 months may also be granted by foreigners under art. 36, para. 3 of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. The authorisation shall be issued in accordance with the rules of application of the law. (14) In the event that the researcher or his family members do not meet or have ceased to be eligible for a residence permit under para. 6, 7 and 9, the Migration Directorate of the Ministry of Interior shall notify the first Member State with a view to their readmission to its territory without delay and formalities. This also applies to cases where the period of validity of the authorisation granted by the first Member State expires or is withdrawn during the stay in the Republic of Bulgaria. 3. Article 24c is amended as follows: Art. 24c. (1) Permission for long stay up to one year may also be granted by foreigners who are in possession of a visa under art. 15, para. 1 and adopted as: 1. students in regular form of education at a university; 2. students, training in the middle degree of education within the framework of an exchange programme; Three interns. (2) Permission under para. 1 may also receive foreigners who will carry out part of their training in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria holding a valid residence permit issued by another Member State and covered by a Union programme or by a multilateral programme providing for training in more than one Member State, or by an agreement between two or more higher education schools of which at least one is Bulgarian, are entitled to entry and stay in order to conduct part of their training in a higher school from one or more second Member States for a period of up to one year. (3) A foreigner who holds a visa under art. 15, para. 1 and not covered by a programme or by an agreement under para. 2 shall apply for authorisation under para. 1 for the purpose of conducting part of his studies at a university in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. (4) In the case of an internship under art. 38a of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility the permission under para. 1 shall be issued for the duration of the internship, but not more than one year. (5) The authorisation under para. 2 shall be issued for the duration of the training, but not more than two years. (6) Permission for long stay for up to 9 months may also be granted by foreigners under art. 38, para. 2 of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility. (7) In the cases under para. 1, 2 and 3 the period of validity of the passport or replacement document of the foreigner shall cover at least the period of residence requested. (8) The authorisations under para. 1 and 2 shall be issued in accordance with the rules for the application of the law and as required by Council Regulation (EC) No 1032002 of 13 June 2002 on the uniform format of residence permits for third-country nationals, and the field of the 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 24k, para. 5 A sentence is created second: When changing employer according to the law on labour migration and labour mobility, a new authorisation under para 1 shall be issued. 5. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 24n and 24o: Art. 24n. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 1, t. 17 The permit for long stay shall be issued on the basis of the act referred to in art. 27 of the Law on Combating Trafficking in Human Beings. (2) For the duration of their stay in the country, foreigners who have been authorised under para. 1 shall enjoy the rights of persons with allowed permanent residence with the exception of the law referred to in Article 1. 35, para. 2. (3) Permission under para. 1 shall not be issued to persons who do not hold identity documents and refuse to assist in identifying them. Art. 24o. (1) In the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 1, t. 21 The permit for continued residence shall be issued in accordance with the requirements of Council Regulation (EC) No 1032002 of 13 June 2002 on the uniform format of the residence permits for third-country nationals, and the field of (2) The period of validity of the authorisation under para. 1 shall be consistent with the duration of the agreement with the host organisation, but not more than one year. (3) "Migration" Directorate, sector/group "Migration" at the Sofia Directorate of Interior or the respective Regional Directorate of the Ministry of Interior shall inform the applicant in writing of the authorisation under para. 1 no later than 14 days from the date of its submission. (4) The authorisation under para. 1 shall be issued in accordance with the rules of application of the law. (5) In the cases under para. 1 the period of validity of the passport or replacement document of the foreigner should cover at least the period of residence requested. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 2 after the words (b) A new para shall be created. 9. In the case of a residence permit or extension of a foreigner's residence permit, the authorisation granted or documents submitted shall be obtained by fraud or false or falsified. (c) the creation of para. 10: In the case of a foreigner who resides in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for purposes other than those for which his residence has been authorised, the period of residence shall be refused in the cases referred to in art. 24, para. 1, t. Art. 21, Art. 24b and 24c (d) the current para. 9 becomes para. 11. 7. Art. 33k: (a) in para. 5 A sentence is created second: When changing employer under the order of the Law on Labour Migration and Labour Mobility, a new permit under para. 1; (b) in para. 6 the words can be obtained and replaced by the words shall be published on the website and the words shall be published on the website of the European Parliament and on the website of the European Parliament and of the Council. Art. 24b, Art. Art. 24k. 24m, the faces of art. 24L, as well as Twenty-four meters, as well as one of them. 8. Art. 33p., para. 4 after the words "Migration" Directorate is placed comma and is placed a sector/group of "Migration" at the Sofia Directorate of the Interior or the respective regional directorate of the Ministry of the Interior. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33rd para. 1 is amended as follows: The family members of the holder of an authorisation for an intra-corporate transfer may be granted a permit for long stay on the basis of art. 24, para. 1, t. 13 for the period of residence of the holder, if they meet the conditions of art. 24, para. The following information is available in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter referred to as "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') published in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') and in the Official Journal of the European Union (hereinafter "the Authority') of the European Union 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 40, para. 1, t. 1 after the words. "24m" is added to the list. 24n, 24o. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) A new para shall be created. 4. The employer or host organisation shall bear the costs of returning the illegally staying third-country national. (b) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1, t. 2 the word "work' and the comma after it are deleted; (b) paragraph 2 is repealed; (c) in para. 3 words................................................................................. 1 and 2' are replaced 13. Art. 48c canceled. 14. In Paragraph 1 of the Additional Provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 1k: == sync, corrected by elderman == @elder_man A programme financed by the European Union or its Member States to promote the mobility of foreigners within the European Union or within the territory of the Member States concerned participating in the programme concerned shall be a multi-annual programme providing for training in more than one Member State.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u165	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Stanislav Stanilov, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 102 MPs: 15 against 20, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 44, which shall become § 47. They voted 102 MPs: 95, none, abstentioned 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u166	According to § 45 by importer there is a proposal from the MPs Svetlana Angelova and Nikolay Sirakov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 45, which shall become § 48: ............... 48............................................................... In the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) A new para shall be created. 3: Within the time limit laid down in para. 1 in the case of change of employer, the person shall be obliged to apply for a new authorisation under art. 59, para. 2, p. 7 and 7b. The new authorisation shall be granted for a period of time until the period of validity of the claim. (b) the current para. 3 becomes para. 4. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 para. 3 is amended as follows: In the case of long-term or permanent residents of the Republic of Bulgaria, foreign nationals of the families of EU citizens, of nationals of countries of the European Economic Area Agreement and of the Swiss Confederation who are not EU citizens, the European Economic Area and of the Swiss Confederation who, under international agreements concluded with the EU, have exercised their right of free movement under conditions and under the Law on the entry, residence and exit of the Republic of Bulgaria of the citizens of the European Union who are not Bulgarian citizens and of their family members, issued residence documents for the residence of a family member of a citizen of the Union. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the (a) c. 2a after the word 24, para. 1, t. 18 (i) and 18 (ii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) To be created t. 13 s 17: "13." a permit for the long stay of a foreigner with the marking of a scientific worker, who is a mobility worker, issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with a period of validity of up to two years; 14. a permit for long stay of a foreigner with a notice of the student is issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with a period of validity of up to one year; 15. a permit for long stay of a foreigner with a note... is issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with a period of validity of up to one year; 16. a permit for long stay of a foreigner with a notice issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with a period of validity of up to one year; 17. permission for long stay of a foreigner with a notice of a volunteer issued by the authorities of the Ministry of Interior with a period of validity of up to one year.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u167	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 45, which shall become § 48. They voted 104 MPs: 96 against 1, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u168	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 49.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u169	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 46, which shall become § 49, and which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 101 MPs: 96, none, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u170	According to § 47, there is a proposal by the MPs Milena Damyanova and Galya Zaharieva. The Commission supports the proposal to drop out. 2 and does not support it in the rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u171	Is he retiring? [[Heckling]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u172	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 47, which shall become § 50: .................................................................................. In the Law on pre-school and school education (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 9, para. 2, p. 3 the following amendments shall be made: 1. The letter "s' is amended as follows: (s) authorised long-term or permanent residence, as well as for members of their families. 2. The letter "b" is amended as follows: (b) with allowed long stay, as well as for members of their families. 3. The letter "s' is amended as follows: (e) asylum seekers or beneficiaries of asylum or international protection.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u173	Statements? There are no speeches. The importer withdraws the part not supported by the Commission. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 47, which shall become § 50. They voted 102 MPs: 92, none, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u174	No proposals have been made by importer for paragraphs 48 and 49. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 48, which shall become § 51. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 49, which shall become § 52.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u175	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I put the two texts to the vote. The first text is the importer for § 48, which becomes § 51, and the second text is the importer for § 49, which becomes § 50. Both texts shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 91 against 1, abstention 3. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u176	The Commission does not support the wording of the importer for § 50 and proposes that § 50 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u177	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal § 50 by importer to be rejected. They voted 102 MPs: for 93, against 2, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u178	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 53.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u179	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 51, which shall become § 53, and shall be supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 94, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u180	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 52, which shall become § 54: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss By 23 May 2018, the Council of Ministers shall, on a proposal from the Minister of Labour and Social Policy, align the rules for its implementation in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u181	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 52, which shall become § 54. They voted 104 MPs: for 101, against 1, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u182	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 55.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u183	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 53, which shall become § 55 and which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion has been passed, with which we accept the entire law. Thank you, Dr. Ademov, for the introduction. Moving on to the next point: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR LOCAL SELF-ORGANIZATION AND LOCAL ADMINISTERATION. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Report for the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Government and Local Administration, No 754-01-87, submitted by Iskren Veselinov, Emil Hristov and Dora Yankova, adopted at the first vote on 24 January 2018. The Law on Local Self-Management and Local Administration is amended and supplemented by the Law on Local Self-Management and Local Administration. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u185	Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote of the applicant for the name of the Law, which shall be supported by the Commission and the text of the importer for § 1, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 100 MPs: 97 against 1, abstention 2. The texts are being adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u186	Under § 2, there is a proposal from the MP Dora Yankova and a group of MPs. The offer has been withdrawn. Proposal by the National Representative Emil Hristov according to the order art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... Article 29a is amended as follows: Art. 29a. (1) A separate unit shall be established in the structure of the municipal administration, which shall assist the work of the municipal council and of its committees and shall carry out the organizational and technical and administrative services of their activities. The unit is directly subordinate to the chairman of the municipal council. (2) The number of employees in the unit shall be included in the total number of municipal administration and together with its establishment schedule shall be established in accordance with art. 21, para. 1, t. 2 on a proposal from the President of the Municipal Council. (3) The employees of the unit shall assist the activities of the President of the municipal council in carrying out his powers in the preparation, convening and holding of the meetings of the municipal council and of its committees. (4) The President of the municipal council shall establish the official characteristics, manage and control the activities of the employees in the unit. The evaluation of the performance of the staff in the unit shall be carried out by the President of the Municipal Council. (5) The organisation of the activities and functions of the unit shall be defined in the rules of art. 21, para. 3. (6) The employees of the unit shall be appointed and released by the mayor of the municipality on a proposal from the President of the Municipal Council. The mayor of the municipality may not appoint or dismiss employees in the unit for which no written proposal has been made by the President of the municipal council. [[The President Emil Hristov spoke with the MP Iskren Veselinov outside the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u187	Yes, it's in the second sentence, Mr. Chairman. The text is correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-03-01.u188	It stays the way it is. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission in the wording of § 2. They voted 106 MPs: 100 against 1, abstention 5. The proposal is accepted, and we accept the Law. Parliamentary Control Communication for March 2nd, Friday, 9:00 p.m.: 1. Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer one question from the MP Emil Hristov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions from the MPs Valeri Zablyanov and Alexander Sabanov. 3. The Minister of Justice Tsetska Tsacheva will answer two questions from the MPs Milen Mihov and Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and one question from the MP Ivan Valentinov Ivanov. 4. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer three questions from the MPs Petar Hristov Petrov, Dragomir Stoinev and Miglena Alexandrova. 5. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer five questions from the MPs Georgi Mihaylov "two questions, Anelia Klisarova, Georgi Yordanov, Ilian Timchev, Lyubomir Bonev and Stanislav Vladimirov, Nikolai Ivanov and Georgi Yordanov. 6. The Minister of Interior Valentin Radev will answer ten questions from the MPs Dimitar Stoyanov, two questions, Petar Hristov Petrov, Georgi Turnovalyski, Krasimir Yankov, Lalo Kirilov, Nikolay Ivanov, Tsvetan Topchiev, Tasco Ermenkov and Todor Bachev. 7. The Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer two questions from the MP Georgi Gokov and Violeta Jeleva and two questions from the MPs Dora Yankova and Krasimir Yankov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the HNS delaying replies by seven days have requested: - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs Ekaterina Zaharieva, to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Dimitar Stoyanov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev to four questions from the MPs Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and Georgi Svilenski, Pencho Milkov, Georgi Gokov and Krasimir Yankov; - Minister of Tourism Nikolina Angelkova at one request from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Tasco Ermenkov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question written by the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question by the National Representative Krastina Taskova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. In the absence of Members of the National Assembly for respectable reasons, the answers to: - a request from the National Representative Alexander Paunov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov; - a question from the National Representative Alexander Paunov to the Minister of Interior Valentin Radev; - a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov; - a question from the National Representative Donka Simeonova to the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev. Due to the use of leave in the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov and the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate. The next meeting is March 2nd, Friday, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
