ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, today we celebrate the Day of the People's Buddhists one of the brightest Bulgarian holidays, a day of spirituality and nationality. Let us remember the work of our educators, scribes, revolutionaries and Buddhists who sought the revival of the national spirit, education and literature. Happy holiday to all teachers, students, scientists, artists and enlighteners! Happy holiday to you all, colleagues! [[Applause.]] Dear colleagues, I propose on the grounds of art. 48, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to adopt a decision as follows: The National Assembly shall hold an extraordinary plenary session on 6 November 2018, Tuesday, at 1300 on the following agenda: 1. The first vote of the National Health Insurance Fund Bill for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. 2. Voting of the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018 Ladies and gentlemen, at the Presidential Council, we have decided that we will also begin reading the first voting reports of the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 and will continue with them on the next day on Wednesday, 7 November 2018. The extraordinary sitting will continue until all reports of the big budget are read. I shall put the proposal to the vote with the draft agenda. Vote 192 MPs: 140 against 2, abstention 50. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, at the Conference of Presidents meeting yesterday, 31 October 2018, the forthcoming review of the 2019 budget laws was discussed next week. The Council agreed that this should happen at an extraordinary meeting, which we have just voted on, and at a regular meeting on 7 November 2018. In order to prepare the Members of the National Assembly for the deliberations on them and to conduct them on two consecutive days, the Conference of Presidents shall find it appropriate to examine the proposals of the Parliamentary Groups made under the terms and conditions of Article 3. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Organisation and Activity of the National Assembly for November 2018, to take place at a meeting on Thursday, 8 November 2018. In this regard, I propose that the National Assembly adopt a procedural decision as follows: The proposals of the parliamentary groups made under the terms and conditions of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for November 2018, to be included in the programme and examined by the National Assembly in plenary on Thursday, 8 November 2018 Parliamentary groups may make their proposals by 18:00, Wednesday, 7 November 2018. Please vote. Vote 187 MPs: 133 against 8, abstention 46. The motion is accepted. A communication yesterday, on 31 October 2018, received and sent to the Members of the National Assembly a joint draft of the bills amending and supplementing the Penal Code adopted on the first vote on 25 October 2018. The draft was drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. Mrs. Damyanova, please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u2	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On November 1st we celebrate the Day of the People's Buddhists, turn to the past and celebrate his characters, look into the present and thank those who are our modern Buddhists; hope the future will bring us even more heroes. Before I go any further, you will allow me to open a small clamp and it may not seem festive to anyone, but it is part of our political weekday. Dear colleagues of BSP, I ask you very much that each of you who has not read the part about education in the Bulgarian Vision, to do so, to consider and to check what is written, so that you do not have to mislead your own voters. And please, I do not mean sentences of the kind that education should be a state priority, because I am convinced that everyone in this House, albeit from a common culture, knows that it is a national priority and on this subject there has never been a dispute in the National Assembly. I do not even mean the text that there should be guaranteed places and mandatory early inclusion of Roma children in kindergarten or children's day center. I will not comment on whether the text is discriminatory, only I do not see how the state priority applies more to some children and for others is not such a priority. You offer handing out shoes, food and things to students to go to school. This approach from the '90s has shown that it doesn't work! I'm saying it if you don't understand it or if you don't remember. In order for children to be in school, a series of measures are needed that are already being implemented by teachers, by directors, by regional managements of education. [[Noise and lines on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u3	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u4	And if anyone wants to know what they are, I will gladly tell them about the practices in good schools in the country and what these practices are done by institutions to become a common model, how much effort, time and patience is required for this. Colleagues on the left, I see you're excited. In order not to record outdated sentences in programs that claim to be visionary by going to the people, listen to what it tells you, collect accurate data, do objective analyses and something very important. Have you forgotten that, together with you, we enrolled here in the National Assembly, in the Preschool and School Education Act, that education is a national priority?! Therefore, do not give the public hollow sentences such as new curricula, a textbook, a provision of information and communication technologies and, of course, that the teacher's salary should be increased. Check what is done and if necessary offer real steps for the better. You will say: what did GERB do? Colleagues, what has never been done for the education of our children will not seem enough, but remember that we have said enough of illiterateness, of outdated teaching methods, of a school that works for itself and not for the labour market and for our children. I remind you that now there are those young people in the labour market for whom there has been no political will to change in the past. I will not remind you of the changes that GERB has made so far and in the implementation of our programme, I pay attention only to the following four decisions, which are laid down in the new budget, which you also supported. The start salary of teachers increases from 760 BGN. at BGN 920 and the average teacher's salary for the first time in decades exceeds the national average. It's the first time we've allocated 25 million. lv. to fund activities in the interests of nearly 700 thousand students. They will encourage children to develop competences in the field of mathematics, informatics, natural sciences, technology, social and civic competence, and support their career orientation. More money, total 30 million. BGN are set aside for work with children and students from vulnerable groups, 1 million. Six hundred thousand. lv. will be granted for scholarships to students from vocational schools and classes with dual form of training, those in state-protected specialities and those with expected labour market shortages. We also create an open educational cloud with free electronic lessons. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u5	Quiet, please, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u6	And this is only in the field of secondary school. But I'm closing the clamp, which, if you'll excuse me, has become perhaps longer. I also want to remind you what Zachary Stoyanov wrote on 22 January 1884: It will be enough to remind you only of the names of Levski, Benkovski, Kocho Chestimenski, brothers Jekovi, by Ivan the Arabian, Ivan Vorcho, etc., all the people of Esnafli and workers. These and no one else washed the face of Bulgaria and defended our disgraced glory; these have made the name of a Bulgarian on the four end of the world; these have set their eyes on everything privately, proudly and fearlessly raised their heads... And it goes on: "Teachers have precisely rid mankind of the pliers of the tyrant, but sadly, we do not yet have such scientists. From now on, it's God. And today, in 2018, we know that God is good to us, because the names of the Buddhists are many and multiply every day. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u7	Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u8	These are the teachers who carry a revival zeal and with dedication work daily for the education of our children. These are the parents who aroused interest in the book in early childhood. These are the lecturers at universities, scientists, community centers and library actors, artists, people of speech and spirituality... Every time he denies his authority and complains that there are none, but the truth is that they are here and with their small deeds they make big changes from the children who return what they lost to the big ones who save lives and with small deeds draw new paths. I'm going to take the liberty of quoting another great mind of our time, Ray Bradbury, who says in.451 degrees Fahrenheit: "Today everyone knows, too confident that nothing will happen to him. The others are dying, but I'm staying! There are no consequences, no responsibility. The trouble is that there is! The Day of People's Buddhists is a day when we must remember that Bulgaria is above everything and everyone is responsible to it! Happy Thanksgiving, guys! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u9	Mr. Mehmet, please come in for a statement on behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u10	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, 96 years ago, on October 31, 1922, Alexander Stamboliiski's government issued a decree announcing the Day of St. Ivan Rilski Miraclemaker for the Day of the People's Buddhists. On 13 December the same year the Nineteenth Simple National Assembly adopted the Law supplementing the Law on Holidays and confirmed it as a public holiday. It shall be celebrated until 9 September 1944, and then deleted for reasons of understanding or rather incomprehensible political reasons. It was restored in 1992 by the National Assembly and today's declarations of this bright feast in plenary are completely natural. Today is a day of honor, appreciation, and spiritual association with our ancestors, those who have consciously inspired and awakened the people throughout the centuries. Today we honor the unforgettable clergy, the enlightened scribes, and the rebellious rebels who keep us awake in time. This holiday is a common Bulgarian part of the spiritual nature of the Bulgarian people. Today we return to our roots again, but we look for our tracks in the history of values, morals, understandings, and the worldview of modern man. But we haven't all read. A lot of people didn't read it. Finally, we have not yet read the true messages of the worthy sons of Bulgaria. Maybe that's why we're having such a hard time pushing our way into the future. We reflect on today and on the bad day, but we do not reflect on life in its fullness, duration and unpredictability. We are not all the responsible people before generations and before the demanding times, because we are very much stuck in the dark of the past and we are not working with dedication for tomorrow's shared day. And destiny has given us this land in which we live together and which, with such love, we call our homeland. Dear colleagues, today it is impossible not to draw parallels with the words and deeds of bright historical persons with reality and state affairs in 2018. Can we ask ourselves the scary question??? Was today's supposedly democratic Bulgaria the dream of a pure and holy republic of Levski, in which all are equal and living in some pure and holy laws, as given by God to live man? And do we, bye-bye, work conscientiously and responsibly for the Fatherland and repair our curvature, do we walk together?! Or because of power and money, we are ready to sell citizenship, to sell Bulgarianism. Selling is in a literal sense. And you can't help but wake up from this screaming patriotism. We will remember, of course, the words of Petko Slaveykov: "Every power that departs from the people falls down like a tree cut down in the root." But this is not just a message, but a warning to all who speak on behalf of the people, but do deeds against the interests of the sovereign. Not to mention that some new statesmen hate and loathe their countrymen and fuck with the severe fate and fate of tortured mothers. Dear colleagues, today's holiday is a kind of bridge to our spiritual past, a touch with the spirit of those who with the power of faith and knowledge have given life and hope in difficult times, and have fought for light, freedom and justice. The day is festive because today the spirit of the Buddhists and the enlighteners is more alive than ever. Their word touches our minds as no other, and their deeds are actually a school of life, full of meaning and fruitfulness. Every year on this day, we will declare that we will stay awake in time. We will be the responsible people and prove that the conscious duty is not a sleeping moral category in our modern society. We cannot change history, regardless of how and how we distort the analysis of events, but we have full responsibility for the present and the future. And hopefully we have enough conscience, awake mind and state thought to build a prosperous Bulgaria. We wish you faith, will and wisdom in the coming time and let the unifying patriotism be our common life and political philosophy. Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Mehmet. You have the floor, Mr. Velinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u12	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's a holiday! A bright holiday in a hard, hard, unhealthy time. A celebration of salvation, as the followers of his celebration thought. So let's leave the petty opposition. Let us remove from our festive thoughts and actions the unnecessary pathetics, the rushes of enthusiasm, the formal worship and give due thanks to the Plovdiv teachers, who 109 years ago for the first time, albeit informally, mark the Day of Bulgarian Buddhists, and consider again with deep gratitude the initiative of a group of remarkable intellectuals, which leads to the extremely important act of the Nineteenth Simple National Assembly to adopt an addition to the Law of the Holidays, according to which November 1 is celebrated as a universal holiday of the deserved Bulgarians to awaken the young healthy sense of existence and interest in the workers of the past. November 1st is a special day in the Bulgarian national calendar, I would say only in its essence, because the idea of the holiday arises in response to the acute need for a life-saving medicine for the body and spirit of our suffering Fatherland. Three years after the Neon Treaty, Bulgarian society has experienced an agony that has never been seen before - a crushed national faith, a cut off Bulgarian territory, tragic divisions. That's why for the holiday there are environments that never before and after they had no contact points. It is supported by Bulgarian lecturers, left and right, IMRO, studentship, church elite, Bulgarians who remained outside the borders of the country, our intellectuals, ordinary people. The sepulchres are being performed, the hymn is being sung. There is no Bulgarian town and there is no Bulgarian village that does not honor its local first-teachers and national heroes, not to wave the Bulgarian flag and not to bow to the activists of our National Revival. And it is no accident that the protector of Bulgaria Saint John Rilski was chosen as a patron on that day. On this day we turn to him in our thoughts and mention all those people of the spirit, the read, the letter, thanks to which we have preserved our national identity and have not forgotten our roots, our kindred, our homeland and history. For years from this tribune and on this day we declare honor, declare a high level of concern for the Bulgarian spirituality, culture, for the Bulgarian education, for the Bulgarian teacher and for the young people. But at the same time, we often forget that all those whose names we will mention today were first patriots and humanists. Would there be a struggle for an independent Bulgarian church if our ancestors from all territories inhabited by Bulgarians did not carry in their heart and family memory the memory of a proud and independent Bulgarian state and did not defend the faith and Bulgarian word? Would the sacrifice of our revolutionaries exist if at home, in the cell school or in the community center, in the church they were not raised in respect of family and family history? He said Toncho Zhechev doesn't have a homeland, he doesn't have a homeland, he has no memory, he has no consciousness of belonging to his own history, culture, no national spirit, no national ideal and no national heroes. I say these words at a time when humanitarian education is in crisis. Today, according to the latest updates of the day, in Bulgarian schools, and even in the early classes, it is proposed to introduce entrepreneurship classes, digital technologies, advertising, marketing. Fine, but from the study content, significant authors drop out each year, and at the same time, statistics alert that functional illiterateness is constantly increasing. Kids don't want to read, they want to own. They don't want to learn to know, but to get a diploma and earn a overturned value model that has led to a debilitating spirit entity, material poverty and alas, political poverty. Here's the open wound of today. Because if Bulgaria's future is valuable to us, we must have clear national priorities, among which really the first place is in the Bulgarian school and Bulgarian education, the foundation of economic prosperity and high culture, education, the drive of which is the love of knowledge and memory storage, which accurately distinguishes the thinking man from the savage, the cultural man from the unscrupulous auctioner, raised by the mediocre. Because the beginning of all our national exploits were just the thinkers, the first ones with respect for the birthplace, for spirit and culture. Would there be a history of Slavic Bulgarian if Paisiy's church associates and the priceless help of his younger brother Hadji Valcho from Samokov were not in the Holy Mansion to write his story?! Would the Apostle's committees exist if they were not the clever ones with a feather, who separated from their morsel into emigration to publish newspapers and brochures?! Would the Bulgarian peasant, the citizen, the student rise as one in all our wars for national unity if through the work of our teachers, our journalists, our intelligence did not sustain the national spirit and memory?! I don't think so. Our entire history, and the five hundred years of Ottoman rule, has been written, maintained, fueled by people for whom the profit of the day has not been primary, not material, but the consciousness of a mission that Bulgaria should not just be reborn and survive, but to survive and to preserve through enlightenment the consciousness of future generations. It's a long list of names of bright and magnificent personalities that we almost have to mention today. However, I would like to remind you of the light deeds of our ancestors, which we pass not so much by ignorance, but by banal distraction. Each year in May, quietly, almost inconspicuously, is noted the printing of one of the first Bulgarian books written in Cyrillic, in Bulgarian. Its author is Philip Stanislavov. He is carrying out a revolution in the Bulgarian cultural space. The year is 1651, the place of Rome, and the idea is to reconstruct the consciousness of the Bulgarian, to recall the presence of our ethnicity in Europe. And all this is declared in a language that has borne the burden of slavery. What was done by the Nikopol Catholic bishop with a century ahead of Paisiyev's work, but came later from the work of Yakov Krajkov in Venice, the first Bulgarian publisher, editor, compiler, printer, engraver and book spreader, gave a valuable contribution to the flowering of the late European Renaissance, so that the history of Slavic Bulgarian and all subsequent events did not come to an empty place. The Holy Bulgarian Revival is marked by another silent feat. In 1840 a brave woman, Anastasia Dimitrova, the first Bulgarian teacher, dared to break the ban on female enlightenment and set up the first girls' school in our lands. They claim that she has spoken the words: The sun shines on the earth, and the teaching inside man shines equally for all men and women. The mother is the children's first mentor. How will I guide young children if she is bookless herself?♪ Without the Istanbul Convention ♪ If history shows that during these centuries the Bulgarian state does not exist, then the facts are proof of the existence of Bulgarian spirituality, which spirituality has managed to establish freedom in its highest sense. Why do we put survival as the primary concern of the Bulgarians? While quality education and the prestige of the Bulgarian primary, secondary and higher school are in the sphere of fantasy, the money for culture is at the lowest level in the European Union, oblivion and delusions have pressed memory into the corner, our whole life will be reduced [[the President signals that time has run out]] to survival mode. That's why all our enlighteners, all our Buddhists, have turned their minds, hearts, and actions to the spirit. Alphabetical truth, but it is good to recall it: always and at every moment the development of society, the progress of the nation ahead has been guided by the attitudes, the goals, the aspirations that that community of people has set itself to govern. The insightful, forward-looking personalities with broad horizons and distant perspectives, with clear strategic vision, have remained in history. Imagine a century ago our predecessors here, in the hall they had experienced three wars, had lost territories, were placed under the custody and supervision of foreign forces, were squeezed by inhumane contracts to future generations, but had a national ideal. At such a feat, we may not be able to raise a national ideal, but at least ask. With hope, however small, I would like to end with the words of Grandpa Petko Slaveykov: Stand up! The day has come! [[(Extreme applauses and cheers by BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u13	Thank you, Mr. Velinov. You have the floor, Mrs. Georgieva, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Volya.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u14	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! On behalf of the parliamentary group of the party, I wish to congratulate all teachers, cultural figures, public figures, historians, Chitalishte figures, students; to all Bulgarian citizens who remember and respect those glorious names in our history, who have preserved us as a nation and spirituality; to all who care not to fall and dust of oblivion on the golden pages of our past and the names of the Budders of the people! Today, with Volya, we are conducting in several cities in the country's campaign. On behalf of our leader Veselin Mareshki and on behalf of the group the Bulgarian citizens will receive a special gift. In it, he calls those who have disowned the Bulgarian family and language, reserugators. There were them then, there were them today. The story gives reason not only to every man to rule himself and his home, but also to the great rulers for good rulership, Paisius wrote. There's no time, no age, no century to be an alarmian. The word itself suggests that you're in the vanguard, that you lead, that you light the way to others, that you open their minds to the new. The first one is never easy and not everyone has the will or destiny to be. Dedication and spiritual development require the energy of courageous, selfless, and dedicated individuals. And if, over the centuries of Turkish slavery, for example, Buddhism is closely linked to the pursuit of freedom, today in democratic Bulgaria, it means to protect the fundamental human values, to ensure a much better life for every Bulgarian citizen, to make Bulgaria stand worthy internationally. Regardless of what time or age we are talking about, the common of the people's Buddhists is their high morals, integrity and patriotism, and last but not least, that these people are not greedy and at any cost sold their cause. We live in the era of modern technology and the enormous influence of social networks. Today, each of us can be a Buddhist for our followers on the Internet, for our loved ones, for our neighbors, for the team he works for. The necessary condition is only one........................................................................................ The true, selfless, acting patriotism without which there can be neither wake-up or awake people. Let us wish on this festive day to be Bulgaria, and let us stay awake to keep it from false patriots, from traitors, from strangers! This is the only way we will have fulfilled the covenant of those glorious Bulgarians whose memory we honor today and who gave their lives to have Bulgaria. Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u15	Thank you, dear Mrs. Georgieva. On behalf of a group, come in, Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I won't bother you with long speeches. Happy Thanksgiving, everybody! On this holiday, the best part is that it has a wide framework and all those who love their country - that is, work for it - are the Buddhists. What Buddhists Are We Celebrating Today? If we start to calculate who the Bulgarian people have awakened, the first Buddhist is Prince Boris, who has attached the Bulgarian tribe to European culture, but this is a matter of another conversation. Today is the celebration of the people's Buddhists, who created that Bulgarian spirit, led to the Renaissance in Bulgaria and turned the medieval Bulgarian man into a modern man, if I may say so in a bourgeois man who believes in the human mind, as he believes in God. The National Buddhists created the Renaissance, the National Buddhists created a new Bulgaria after the Renaissance. They created the sacramental space of the Bulgarian people, university, library, theatre, Academy of Sciences, all that strengthens the consciousness of the Bulgarians and has a clear vision for its future. Today we are very difficult... Look how long it took to convince the National Assembly to vote on decent teachers' salaries. How long was it gonna take? How long must it take to vote wages.............of researchers? How long must it take to understand that in the budget, the money for culture must be at least 1% of gross domestic product, not half, as it has just reached. And so on and so forth. What can we say today? We must study the Buddhist work, so to speak, produce it before the nation and set an example of who has done what. There is one person in Bulgaria because here often quoted names that once lived in the late Renaissance after the Liberation. His name is Ivan Evstatiev Gesov. He donates all his wealth. The brothers Georgievi.. all the land from the building of BAS to the Orlov Bridge, bought for Sofia University and the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and then looted by unscrupulous Bulgarians. All these people were rich, lived well, but paid attention to both others and the spirit. That example is almost gone today. I know businessmen who pay for publishing books that support museums, help picture galleries and libraries, but they are units. They're just units. With laws we can't do all this, we have to do it with consciousness. As far as it can come in our heads, it's dark work. Again, I congratulate not only the people's Buddhists, and I congratulate all the colleagues who are in the Chamber, from all the political parties who are fond of our Fatherland and whose ancestors created this country, this Bulgaria, which the great Russian researcher Academician Likhachev called a spiritist. Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u17	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Procedure, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u18	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I do the following procedure: on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure and Procedure of the National Assembly shall be extended by seven days between the first and second voting of the Personal Aid Bill. My motive is this. On Tuesday, the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee received a request from protesting mothers of disabled children to extend this deadline by seven days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u19	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal made. They voted 122 MPs: for 122, against and abstention there is no. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE DEFINITELY DEPOSED AND OTHER PROCEEDINGS. The bill was adopted in the first vote on 4 July 2018. The Report of the Committee on Culture and Media will introduce us to Mrs. Krasteva. Here you are, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm doing a procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Deputy Minister Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u21	Thank you. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. They voted 106 MPs: 99, against 1, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite Deputy Minister Dimitrov to the hall. Continue with the presentation of the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u22	On 6 February 2018, submitted by Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Velislava Krasteva at the first vote on 4 July 2018. The Law on the compulsory deposit of printed works and other works is amended and supplemented by the Law on the compulsory deposit of printed works and other works. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In the name of the Law is finally The Commission proposes to create a new § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1 the order for the notification of information for the distributors of periodic printing works and the providers of the media service is added at the end. the order for the announcement of information for the distributors of periodic printing works and the providers of the media service is added.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u23	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I will put to the vote three texts: the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission; the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with a text, according to the Commission proposal; and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 2. They voted 101 MPs: for 89, against 3, abstention 9. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u24	The Commission proposes to create a new § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7a The following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. The title is amended as follows: 2. Alinei 3, 4, 5 and 6 are amended as follows: A media service provider shall submit to the Ministry of Culture a model declaration established by the Minister of Culture identifying its actual owner and containing information on whether the actual owner holds a public office and on any funding received in the previous calendar year, its size and basis, including data on the person who made the financing. Where the provider of a media service is a public company within the meaning of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities or under national law, information identifying its actual owner shall be considered to be the designation of the competent institution under whose supervision the company is located. Where the person who effectively controls the content of the media service and/or editorial policy is different from the actual owner of the media service provider, that fact shall be stated in the declaration. (4) In the declaration under para. 3 indicate all contracts and their value entered into by the media service provider in the previous calendar year with state or local authorities or companies with State or municipal participation in capital, including as a result of public procurement, with political parties, advertising contracts with persons operating under regulation, as well as contracts under which funding has been obtained by means of the European Structural and Investment Funds or by other international financial institutions and donors. (5) The Declaration under para. 3 shall be submitted by completing an electronic form on the website of the Ministry of Culture subject to the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services. Declaration which does not contain the information under para. 3 and 4 is considered unsold. (6) Within the term under para. 3 the declaration shall also be submitted to the Registry Agency and shall be subject to a notice in the relevant register referred to in art. 3, para. 1 of the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities. 3. They're creating an al. 7 and 8: The media service provider, within 7 days of a change in its actual owner, is obliged to declare the change and to indicate whether the actual owner holds a public office. (8) The Media Service Provider shall publish up-to-date information on its actual owner and on its website. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 4: ............................................ Art. 7b is created: ? Announcement of information on distributors of periodic printing works Art. 7b. (1) The distributor of periodic printing works shall submit to the Ministry of Culture a model declaration approved by the Minister of Culture identifying its actual owner and the number of retail outlets of periodic printing works used in its commercial activity. Where the distributor is a public company within the meaning of the Law on the Public Offering of Securities or under national law, information identifying its actual owner shall be deemed to be the designation of the competent institution under whose supervision the company is. (2) The distributor shall, within 7 days of a change to its actual owner, be obliged to declare the change. (3) The Declaration under para. 1 shall be submitted by completing an electronic form on the website of the Ministry of Culture subject to the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services. Declaration which does not contain the information under para. One is considered unsold. (4) Where a person uses more than one third of all declared retail outlets for periodic printing works in the country in his business, the Ministry of Culture shall notify the Commission of the protection of competition. (5) The spreader of periodic printed works shall publish up-to-date information on its actual owner and on its website.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u25	Are there any speeches, colleagues? Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u26	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In principle, the stated purpose of these texts is to lighten the ownership and funding of the media and, in principle, I believe that to some extent this objective is achieved through the texts, that is, they themselves lead in this direction. However, I have problems with this.... is this objective achieved, as it is actually proclaimed through these texts? It gets brighter really in funding, but real lightening doesn't work because it only concerns one part and actually regulates one part of the media services. What do I mean? Firstly, in my opinion, the texts are not sufficiently clear the concepts these texts define. For example: in my opinion, the explanation of a service provider is not clear. It is explained that the actual owner, I apologize, and not the supplier, is clear, and the actual owner is not. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 is explained that the actual owner is a concept within the meaning of § 2 in the Additional Provisions of the Law on Measures against Money-taking. By the way, there is no such paragraph in the Law right now. The law was last amended in March 2018 and in the current version of the Law this paragraph is not at all, and we write it in the next law. So far we start by saying that it is not clear, but if we say that this is some minor factual error that perhaps needs to be corrected in the future, there is a more serious problem for me, and it is that, for example, here I see a concept as a I do not know how to determine the person who has the factual control of the content. In some legal way, it is lodged and is key here. When we talk about funding control, this is what we talk about when one is different from the other. That is to say, when the institution under whose supervision the company is different from the one under which the content is actually controlled, one is a supervisor, the other is a........................................................................................ When this starts to apply, it won't actually work because I have no idea how to formulate this person who actually controls the content. Not to mention that the option itself, which is repeated, follows this in art. 76 "The idea that the actual owner is considered to be the designated competent institution under whose supervision the company is located does not lead to the actual owner of a practice which we have already said that he under our legislation has not been clarified at the time. What am I saying? I'm saying the lyrics are in the right direction. They usually want to lighten up. I am not convinced that within the framework of our current legislation, it is possible to make a significantly greater lightening than this. I mean, I don't know what the texts are that have to be done so that the actual owners actually come out. I'm saying that these texts in this form are not going to work. One more thing that's important. This whole text is going to be the next one already. 4 which concerns the lightening of funding, in fact the contracts concluded by the media service provider is provided for, in my view, the small media service providers here will be brightened, but those providers that are actually owned or under the direct control of large corporations. Unfortunately, many Bulgarian media service providers are just such. Then it turns out that it is related to the State and can receive from the State money this other one and transfer it through advertising contracts. I apologize for mentioning names, but I know that Sasho Donchev and Overgas have a newspaper. We are not talking about Delyan Peevski, that there must be media, and the situation is the same. That's why I'm setting an example not Delyan Peevski, but I'm giving Sasho Donchev. If Sasho Donchev receives money from the state and through advertising finance his own newspaper, through some of the companies that are related to him will this thing come out? The information will come out that the company-who had an advertising contract and so much, and that the origin of the money could still be state-owned, it still doesn't come out. The logic of the direct dependence of power on the media, i.e. how media depend on power, with these texts continues to be unclear. I'm sorry to have to put it this way, but for me, this is an attempt to work on the lightening of the media, which rather has a different character and has rather another purpose. The aim is to lighten up a kind of owner or a certain owner of the media, who obviously wants to prove that he is not a monopolist. Frankly, any normal reading of this work says that he is not a monopoly and that is clear. I don't see why this media trick has to go through the legislation! In my practice, it may not be big enough, but for the first time, PR action is done through legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u27	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Are there any lines? I don't see any lines. Any other comments on the texts discussed? Here you go. Mr. Popov gave the first sign, then I will give the floor to the other colleague. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u28	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Here, in the proposed text, and further down, it concerns the term "actual owner." Nowhere in the Law itself is it specified what is the actual owner. Yes, experience has been made in the Additional Provisions, i.e. 10 is written as follows: The actual owner is a concept in the sense of § 2 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Measures against Money Insurance. Paragraph 2, however, does not exist in this law, there is § 1 and 1a and is not spoken at all, no definition of an actual owner is given. Here this law, in this part of it, starts with a false start, with a void. There is no explanation for the term "actual owner." This reference, which is made here, obviously, is not good because the Law on Measures against Money Laundering § 2 does not exist and does not reflect what is the actual owner. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u29	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Kutev's hole? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u30	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Regarding the difficulties of BSP colleagues to deal with some of the texts of the Law. Mr. Kutev, I think that for everyone it is easy to read the definition of the basically controls the content of the media service and/or editorial policy. This seemed clear to me, especially for people who have worked and have professional experience in media environments. Most often these are editors in charge, editors in charge and so on, i.e. which are clearly indicated in most of the editions, as well as in the various types of electronic media. So in this regard, the PR player you're trying to make remains unclear to me, but that's your comment. I think we answered that comment. As regards the remark on technical inaccuracies, I also argue that it is in agreement with the relevant experts in the Commission. There is no such pass, so please check again if this is about that. In § 2 the cited Law contains exactly the definition of the actual owner.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u31	Mr. Popov, please, you will have the opportunity to reply. Is that what you said, Mrs. Krasteva? Thank you. Mr. Kutev for a cue. Come in, you have the floor. A line to Mrs. Krasteva's statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u32	Ms. Krasteva, it is possible that I am mistaken, but I think the text you are quoting is from March, because you prepared the Bill before March before the changes to this law, if I am not mistaken. So look at the latest version of March, I think 18 March, I will see which March from 2018, when I have already dropped § 2, in my opinion. Look at it, because it's a technical job that can be fixed, and I think there's this problem. But the very fact that you're telling me that these are most often the editors in charge, in fact you brought it in, we're talking about para. 3. You have inserted this text into this law, not because it is implied who they are and you, the way you wrote it, do it the whole Law, because it does not mean who are the people who control the content or if it is implied who they are, they are not usually the editors in chief. Here the problem is that in society there is clearly a feeling, an opinion, a belief that it is not the chief editors who control the content. In my opinion, the purpose of your Law is precisely that of enlightening the person who controls the content in some way. So the question of who actually controls the content is not clear at all. It is actually the question that stands on the table at the time of writing the Law. If these were primarily the editors in charge or, above all, as you said, most often the editors in charge, what happens when it is not so often? What happens in cases outside the most frequently? Because they're the problem with the Bill, that's why you're doing it. And in cases where it's not the most common, someone other than the editor-in-chief takes into account someone who obviously provides funding in some way. And the purpose of your bill is to find out how this relationship works. I'm saying that with this terminology that you put in, you couldn't do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mr. Popov wanted a line. Will there be an asshole, Mrs. Krasteva? No. Next statement, Mr. Nedyalkov has long signaled. I beg you very much to be patient, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Nedyalkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u34	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My speech will be very brief and it is primarily related to a few remarks on these two paragraphs that you have just proposed to us. I would like to say that we first change the name of these two texts very well. We have changed the title of the Law, but we are not changing in any sense the title of the chapter in which we put these two paragraphs. The title of the head that we put remains the same. There is nothing here about the announcement of owners, both of the different media service providers and their distributors. My second serious remark, I have others, but the serious ones, this is exactly why the Commission proposes to print distributors to be only one third of all registered distribution units in the country. This is too much to refer to the Commission for Protection of Competition. My suggestion is that this be a sixth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u35	Are there any lines to Mr. Nedyalkov's statement? I can't see. Mr. Nedyalkov, am I to understand that you're proposing an addition? A sixth instead of a third? Here you are, Mr. Kirilov, for a reply to the speech of the MP Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u36	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm not doing a detailed line on my colleague. I would like to say that the possible purpose of importers in this case was to make an attachment to our anti-monopoly legislation, where we have, I would say, a common criterion for overwhelming participation in the market and it is a third. That probably, I think, meant in this case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? Did you want Mr Nedyalkov for the back? I didn't notice you. Here you go for the dot, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u38	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mr. Kirilov! I understand your line, it's caused by the general rule, but here we have a completely different environment in which different printing distributors operate. These are very ripped objects throughout the country, so I think the norm should be increased here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u39	Mr. Nedyalkov, just to use your presence on the stand, specifically to state your proposal for editorial change.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u40	This is in the paragraph, which the Commission proposes, which becomes, in its part, 4 - Announcements of information on the applicants...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u41	Which one of the dots do you say?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u42	Paragraph 4 becomes 7b the creation of 7b...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u43	Which text do you want us to change exactly and where to enter?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u44	Where we replace a third with a sixth.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u45	"Seven "b " (b) " (a.k.a. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u46	When a person uses in more than one third more than one sixth.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u47	Instead of the words "one third," "one sixth." Thank you. Mr. Tsonev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u48	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. At the very beginning of the first two paragraphs, the speeches were in the same direction. I'd like to look at some possible inaccuracies according to my colleagues, but there's obviously a gap here. First of all, the final reports are made, especially when it comes to references to other laws, to quoting texts from other laws, from the legal department, from relevant lawyers in the National Assembly. So despite Mr. Kutev's huge desire to constantly proclaim as the objective of the PR Act, it was not so appreciated during the discussion that all media representatives who attended, including those who criticized his first version before the version in which we made changes for second reading. Everyone there with consensus said that now the Bill is basically fulfilling its functions and agree with it. I think Mr. Kutev, I don't know if he was there, should be, the desire he has at first reading shouldn't carry it to second, because at least it's not serious. With regard to this, is it § 2, to which we refer for an actual owner, yet I say that this is absolutely not the work of the importers or any member of parliament, because in principle the legislative technique does not imply that it is their work. I have printed out the text of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering and there is § 2 of 28 March, I think this is the last amendment. Paragraph 2 in the Additional provision states: "Alinea 1. "Actual owner' is a natural person or natural person who ultimately owns or controls a legal person or any other legal entity and/or natural person or natural persons on whose behalf and/or for whose account an operation, transaction or activity is carried out and who satisfy at least some of the following conditions.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. When we were looking for a legal definition of a real owner, we assessed, on a proposal, of course, of lawyers, that this is the most comprehensive one, and therefore I did not quote it. Here to blame the importers, that what they achieved and what they didn't achieve... I think that is the most comprehensive definition and we achieve everything with it! Anything possible to achieve in the Bulgarian legislation that has it! Because, however, legal definitions must be relatively similar in legislation. This one, first. Secondly, in terms of who determines editorial policy? It was clear in the course of the discussion that this matter was extremely complex and could not cover all the hypotheses, but it was a very bold and decisive attempt in legislation to do so for the first time. If anyone wanted the experience to be more successful, to be even more determined and to be even more comprehensive, to have done so. It does not follow that importers did not want to do everything and that they did not do it in a way that they think is best at this point. I think that the texts are correct, well done and not only in my opinion, but also in the opinion of all those involved in the discussions are extremely rational and useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u49	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. A line? Mr. Kutev, you have the floor for the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u50	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Dear Mr. Tsonev, if you hadn't taken a special place in the beginning in my name, I probably wouldn't have made a line. After all, after such attention, it wouldn't have been respectful of you, Mr. Tsonev. Look, I don't have any other goals, speaking under this law, except to bring a deep conviction into this room. I began my speech by saying that in principle the Law leads in the right direction and that it will most likely lead to partial lightening. At the same time, I have my doubts as to whether this way written texts will lead to real lightening. In my speech at the beginning, I told you that I am not convinced that under current legislation, or at least in its general state at the moment, we can lead to greater lightening. In general, the idea of knowing who owns and how it affects a media, unfortunately, the part is quite analytical. This knowledge is analytical, it is not legal and cannot enter the legislation until the end. So if I make any comments about the content, it's with the idea of making it better, being not part of the Committee on Culture. I mean, I don't think these texts are my responsibility either. What I'm doing right now is I'm giving them that perspective that I think is worth it, and nothing more.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Any other lines? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kutev, I didn't see you make a proposal to the Law. As you are not a member of the Commission of Culture, I am not, but I consider it my duty, so I felt that I should participate in the making of this law and in the additional texts to second reading, and in all this matter at all. Recently we had a meeting with the representatives of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and when we were looking at their previous report, as the second one under the Cooperation Mechanism is being prepared, I was impressed by one sentence: The analysis of the media environment is based only on information received by the non-governmental organization Reporters without borders and there Bulgaria has been severely criticised. Another ranking puts us in some places after the underdeveloped countries. This ranking is made again by a non-governmental organization in the Soros Circle. We as MPs will watch these NGOs produce reports, whole paragraphs of reports that are absolutely false, or at least very controversially true. You are now saying from this tribune: it is not my duty! Okay! I think it's mine. If this is an attempt to go in this direction, I very much hope that it will be reflected in the next report, because it is positive, responds to false statements in the report, he answers. It is not an attempt for PR activity of one person, and it is a PR action of Bulgaria and the media environment in Bulgaria! Because rankings cannot be made that clearly do not correspond to the freedom of speech in Bulgaria, the place given for Bulgaria, I say it does not answer. Many other journalists, editors and publishers confirmed it in their publications in the media, in their analyses on this occasion. Dear colleagues, thank you for your support for the Law. Be absolutely confident that we are taking a step Bulgaria not to be lopped in this way, the media environment to lighten up, to meet those requirements that are still fair as assessments.... as part of the assessments given to us and to improve these assessments. The law is about this, not about doing PR on this guy or that guy.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u53	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any MPs who want to make speeches? Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I did not intend to speak on these two paragraphs, but since the debate has become interesting in terms and content, I will allow myself to share my legal understanding of these concepts and their use in the Bill. In terms of content, the factual control was the first concept to be debated. I accept that this concept has a very serious innovation moment and element when it is used specifically in the Law and in this matter, but this concept is not new. In no case is it new for Bulgarian legislation and at all for our continental legislation. For more than 25 centuries of Roman law, lawyers have been trained and we know how to apply and respect what is called actual authority. The factual situation, undoubtedly, has legal significance. It has legal meaning when the legal norm has determined that it will respect and comply with the factual situation. The most classic legal example, to call it, the institutional analogy, is the institute of possession. The authority, again according to Roman lawyers, is the actual authority over one of the powers of power. 25 centuries ago, Roman lawyers must have been debating, hesitating, but apparently they've taken into account that the actual situation is something that is objective, it can be established. Here the question is: how can it be found? Such a question is usually answered by lawyers again classically: with all possible evidence. That is, at any time when there is evidence of such actual authority or actual control, the false statement will be proved to be false if the person was in debt. If I am in control of the Hicks edition and I did not sign up for the declaration, I am not reflected there, but for example, my colleague Zarkov says: I am a witness when my colleague Kirilov answered the phone and said the content of this issue to be so, this already contradicts the declaration, we have proof of her infidelity. Here, more fear and fear should be in the other direction. By betting on such a wide criterion, in a wide range, we do open the door of general proof and everyone can prove by all evidence and evidence. In this sense, I therefore support importers and I believe that they were extremely ambitious, laying down this criterion and an approach to describing this concept. With regard to the other issue of the real owner, I would like to say that in my reference to this point in the legal information system regarding the Law on Measures against Money Laundering, there are § 2 of the Additional Provisions. Paragraph 2 is the same content that Mr. Tsonev presented to you. So I can't reproach the directorate. They edited the text of the importers because they had a definition, but the referees said: do it as a reference to the legal definition. I'm done, Mr. Chairman. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Kutev, you have the floor for the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u56	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Kirilov, first of all, I take it that obviously by § 2 we made a mistake on the documents we read, that is, where we took it, it wasn't there. We may have made a mistake. I guess so! Regarding the content of the actual control, if I have correctly understood your logic, you say: with the Bill, in fact, importers and the National Assembly will give the right to seek in general order, in case someone suspects that this is not the case. Yeah, I realize that's a good thing, and it's possible. I had doubts whether this would lead to the result, because the example you gave is real. It happens to people in the hall and they were public enough. When someone answers their phone, call and say: here this article must fall or not enter, through a scandal or not, for better or for worse it happens all the time. For the worse, of course, not for the better. However, my conviction is that these texts do not solve the problem. Unfortunately, the dispute here will hardly lead to the end result and to the conclusion whether or not they decide it. We will find out if this problem is solved through these texts only in a year or two when we see the result. Frankly, I will apologize publicly, Mr. Tsonev, if in the next ranking of Reporters without borders and on any other, we have climbed two places up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u57	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Are there any other lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u58	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kutev, we can't know 100% of the results we can assume. That is, we have the normal legislative logic that what we accept as a legal norm will be respected and respected. There is no way to write below the norm: This norm must be respected. Your concern is the same as mine, whether the Penal Code is respected or any other prohibition or imperative norm in our law. Here we can all invoke Professor Stanilov and say: sometimes the law is not enough in itself to achieve the end effect, because it must be applied, and its application means discipline and legal consciousness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u59	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Tsonev wants the floor for procedure. Here you go. I'm listening carefully.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u60	Since my name was mentioned to me in connection with what I said, from Mr. Kutev, I'm taking this procedure to answer it. I don't know how popular these NGOs are, but I'll give you just one example: nowhere in the Report notice, the report is about the state of the media environment, this paragraph in Bulgaria, it's about Bulgaria, and it covers the period 2016; nowhere in this report "Reporters without borders" have reported the fracturing case of interference in the definition of editorial policy, in determining the freedom of journalists to express their views on those emails that leaked out, if you recall, from the owner and chief editor of a media group. Let's not quote now from the stands. They weren't listed anywhere! I have nothing against Reporters without borders and any NGO, its international image and its international function, and those who perform this task here because they are from the same political-media-business circle in Bulgaria! And they're falling for Bulgaria! And they squat Bulgaria because as legislators we have not laid clear rules, clarity.. to see who is who in the Bulgarian media environment! And that's what we're doing right now! It is absolutely undeserved for this attempt to put order and not give this guy and that guy the opportunity to dump us in front of our European partners to be called a single person's PR action! This is absolutely undeserved! I strongly object to this, Mr. Kutev! And at first reading, you said it, and now you're saying it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u61	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. However, we did not hear a proposal for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u62	It was a personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u63	Are there any other statements? I won't. We are going to vote on the two paragraphs reported and discussed on the Commission Report. The second has been proposed an editorial amendment, so I will put them to a separate vote. We are voting on the proposal on the Commission Report on the creation of a new § 3 in the version proposed in the Report. They voted 106 MPs: 91, against 3, abstention 12. The motion is accepted. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 1, which becomes § 4. I put to the vote the proposal of the MP Mr. Nedyalkov: in para. 4 of proposals in the Report the words "one third" to be replaced by "one sixths." It refers to the number of all declared sites. 4. They voted 108 MPs: 17 against 30, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. We are voting for the amendment of § 1, which becomes § 4 of the Commission Report. They voted 106 MPs: 91, against 2, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u64	According to § 2 there is a proposal from the MPs Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev, Velislava Krasteva and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer, which shall be reflected in its systematic place in a new § 3 and § 5. 7a and 7c. The Commission proposes the following version of § 2 which becomes § 5: .................................................................................. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 7c: "Public Register" Art. 7c. (1) The Ministry of Culture shall establish and maintain a public register containing the information under art. 7a, para. 3, 4 and 7 and under art. 7b, para. 1 and 2. (2) The information referred to in art. 7a, para. 3, 4 and 7 and under art. 7b, para. 1 and 2 shall be published in the register under para. 1 subject to the Personal Data Protection Act. The publication shall be carried out within 10 days of the submission of the declaration by officials of the Ministry of Culture in order laid down by a regulation of the Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u65	Thank you, Mrs. Krasteva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 2, which shall become § 5. They voted 104 MPs: 93 against 2, abstention 9. The offer is accepted. Negative vote, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u66	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! A very short negative vote. Why did we need printers to declare whether they owned one third of the sites, since this would not be reflected in the register? It will not be reflected in the public register.. We have just adopted a text that says: the information under art. Article 7a 7b, only para. 1 and 2. Alinea 4 is shutting down. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u67	It doesn't rule out al. 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u68	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Please continue, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u69	Proposal from the MPs Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev, Velislava Krasteva and Hamid Hamid. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 6. The Commission proposes to establish § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are 1. In para. 6 the words..2, 3, 4 or 2. A new para is being created. 7. A person who does not fulfil an obligation under art. 7a, para. 3 - 8 or under art. 7b, a fine is imposed, a corresponding penalty of 10 000 to 15 000 BGN. In case of repeated infringement, the fine or penalty payment shall amount to BGN 20 000 to BGN 30 000. 3. Previously on AMC's... 7 and 8 become respectively. 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u70	Thank you, Mrs. Krasteva. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6 with a text according to the Commission proposal. They voted 102 MPs: for 89, against 4, abstention 9. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u71	Proposal from the MPs Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev, Velislava Krasteva and Hamid Hamid. The Commission shall, in principle, support the proposal which is reflected in § 7. The Commission proposes to establish § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following 1. In para. 1 sentences are created second and third: "When the infringement is under art. 7a, para. 3 - 8 or under art. 7b, acts establishing infringements shall be drawn up by officials of the Ministry of Culture. Where the intruder cannot be identified, the Minister of Culture shall request assistance from the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and publish information on the Ministry's website. 2. In para. The sentence 2 is created second: the Penal Orders under art. 7a, para. 3 - 8 and under art. 7b shall be issued by the Minister of Culture or an official authorised by him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u72	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 7 with content in accordance with the Commission report. They voted 102 MPs: 92 against 3, abstention 7. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u73	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer, but proposes that § 3 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 8. According to § 4, a proposal was made by the MPs Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev, Velislava Krasteva and Hamid Hamid. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 8, as follows: ................................................................................... Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. Point 10 is amended as follows: ..10. The actual owner is a concept within the meaning of § 2 of the Additional Provisions of the Law on Measures against Money Laundering. 2. They're creating a t. 12, 13, 14 and 15: ..12. The financial contribution is any cash or property receipt and/or any other cash receipt, irrespective of the legal form used, outside the revenue from the normal activity of the media service provider, as well as all loans and bank loans received. 13. "Media service" is a concept within the meaning of § 1, t. 15 of the Additional Provisions of the Election Code. 14. The media service provider is the provider within the meaning of § 1, item 1. 16 of the Additional Provisions of the Election Code, including the publisher of periodic printing works. 15. "Public office" is a position within the meaning of art. 6, para. 1 of the Law on Countering Corruption and for the withdrawal of illegally acquired property, as well as another position, which is taken up by an act of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, the National Assembly, the Council of Ministers or the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u74	Are there any speeches, colleagues? I won't. I will put two texts to the vote: firstly, the Commission's proposal to reject the text of the importer for § 3, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 8; secondly, the Commission's proposal for the version of § 4 by importer, which becomes § 8. They voted 109 MPs: 99, against 2, abstention 8. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u75	The Commission proposes to establish Final Provisions by paragraphs 9, 10, 11 and 12 as follows: "Concluding provisions' § 9. (1) Within one year of the entry into force of this Act, the Ministry of Culture shall establish the public register under art. 7c, para. 1. (2) Until the establishment of the register under para. 1 declarations under art. Article 7a 7b shall be submitted electronically in accordance with the Law on Electronic Document and Electronic Certification Services. (3) Within one month of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Culture shall establish the models of the declarations under art. Article 7a 7b. (4) Within three months of the entry into force of this law, the Minister of Culture shall issue the ordinance under art. 7c, para. 2. § 10. In the Law on Protection and Development of Culture (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 31, para. 1 is created t. 5b: "5b." 50 per cent of the fines and property penalties under art. 7a, para. Art. 3, Art. 8, Art. 7b of 3acon for the compulsory deposit of printed and other works and for the announcement of media service providers and distributors. § 11. In the Law on Economic and Financial Relations with the companies registered in jurisdictions with preferential tax regime, their controlled persons and their actual owners (prom, SG No. ...), the following additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4 t. 4 at the end is added to the announcement of distributors and service providers. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. 1 after the words § 12. In the Law on Public Libraries (prom., SG No. ...) the following additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13, para. 1, t. 3 after the words "Depotisation of printed works and other works"... is added to the announcement of distributors and providers of media services............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15, para. 1, t. 1 at the end is added to the announcement of suppliers and service providers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u76	Statements? I won't. Colleagues, I will put to the vote the Commission's proposal to set up a section of "Concluding provisions" by paragraphs 9, 10, 11 and 12 with the relevant content, as per the Commission report. Are there any MPs who failed to vote? [[Noise and lines.]] We'll reschedule. They voted 102 MPs: 91, Against 2, abstention 9. The proposals are accepted. Thank you for your work, Mrs. Krasteva. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CORPORATE SUB-ROADING. Report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. There is an additional report to the report with No 853-02-49. You have the floor, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u77	Thank you. Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Ludmila Petkova, Director of the Ministry of Finance in the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Borislav Borisov, Deputy Director of the Ministry of Customs, Mrs. Svetla Genova, Director of the Directorate of Accentive Activity and Methodology.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u78	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. 90 MPs voted: 89 against 1, no abstentions. The offer is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u79	The Law on Corporate Income Tax is amended and supplemented by the Law on Corporate Income Tax. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... Article 1 is inserted in In the case of leases, the value of the leases shall be determined on the basis of the following formula: Art. 11a. (1) Accountingly reported costs and revenues in relation to operating leases according to International Accounting Standards, in the case of lessor, shall not be recognised for tax purposes. Assets eligible for operating leases according to International Accounting Standards recognised in the case of lessor are not tax amortizable assets. (2) For tax purposes shall be recognised the costs and revenues determined in accordance with the rules of Accounting Standard 17 "Lising" in respect of operating leases applied to the relevant operating leases under para. 1. The amounts referred to in the preceding sentence shall be treated as accounting expenditure and revenue for the purposes of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u80	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I will put two texts to the vote: the first is the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission; the second "Commission proposal to create a new § 1 with the text on the Commission's report. Vote 84 MPs: 75 against 1, abstention 8. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u81	According to § 1 there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 2. In para. 2 the digits The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011): 4............................................................................................ 3. A new para is being created. 3: If the taxable person applies for the current year art. 43a, the recognised interest expenses under para. 2 shall be limited to the amount of the remainder of the recognised excess of borrowing costs after the application of art. 43a, para. 5. 4. Previously on AMC's... 3 " 4" became respectively. 4... 5.................................................................. 5. So far, the Al. 5 is repealed. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u82	Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the first draft of the Commission for the text of § 1, which shall become § 2; the second one shall be the importer which shall become § 3 supported by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 75, none, abstention 12. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u83	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4, as in art. 47d, para. 1, t. 2 words. the following point is inserted after point (c) of Article 4 (1): 47d, para. 1..................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u84	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 3, which shall become § 4, with the changes proposed by the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: 72, none, abstention 13. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u85	Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov for a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 50 the following 1. The current text becomes para. 1. 2. the creation of para. 2: The tax fixed tangible assets are also amortizable assets with a right to use in relation to financial leasing contracts according to the International Accounting Standards recognised in the case of lessor. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 61 the following amendments and additions are 1. The current text becomes para. 1. 2. the creation of para. 2: The limitation referred to in paragraph 2 of this Article shall be limited to the following: 1, t. 1 shall not apply in the subsequent assessment of tax fixed tangible assets under art. 50, para. 2 which is due to a revaluation of the liability under the financial leasing contract.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u86	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote, first, the Commission's proposal to create a new § 5 with a text, according to the Commission's report and, secondly, the Commission's proposal to create a new § 6, with a text according to the Commission's report. Vote 94 MPs: 80, none, abstention 14. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u87	Paragraphs 4 to 12 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 4 to 12 by importer, which shall be from § 7 to § 15 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u88	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer from § 4 to § 12, which shall take place from § 7 to § 15. They voted 103 MPs: 82, against 2, abstention 19. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u89	The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 16, proposing to add a title to art. 163 The tax is paid for the last tax period. Paragraphs 14, 15 and 16 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for paragraphs 14, 15 and 16, which shall become paragraphs 17, 18 and 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u90	Statements? I won't. I put four texts to the vote. The first is the text of the importer for § 13, which becomes § 16, with the addition of a title on a proposal from the Commission and the texts of an importer for paragraphs 14, 15 and 16, which become paragraphs 17, 18 and 19. They voted 98 MPs: 78 against 1, abstention 19. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u91	Paragraph 17 by importer. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov: Point 3 to fall. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs: In § 17, Article 17 (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 20, and shall propose it. Three down. Paragraph 18 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u92	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the two texts of the importer for § 17, which becomes § 20, and the Commission proposes to drop it. 3 and the text of the importer for § 18, which is supported by the Commission and becomes § 21. They voted 104 MPs: 81, against 3, abstention 20. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u93	Paragraphs 19 to 22 by importer. The Commission shall support the importer's text for paragraphs 19 to 22, which shall become paragraphs 22 to 25 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u94	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote four texts of the following paragraphs by the President of the Commission in accordance with the text of the importer and in accordance with the proposed renumbering of the paragraphs. They voted 109 MPs: 84, against 3, abstention 22. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u95	According to § 23 there is a proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer for § 23, which becomes § 26, by proposing a point. One down. Paragraph 24 by importer. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u96	Statements? I won't. I put the two texts to the vote, the first is the text of the importer for § 23, which becomes § 26, and the Commission proposes to drop it. 1, and the second text is the text of the importer for § 24, which becomes § 27. They voted 106 MPs: 85, against 2, abstention 19. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u97	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. According to § 25 there is a proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 25, which shall become § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 The unrecognized interest costs after 1 January 2014 pursuant to art. 43, to be deducted and not deducted until 31 December 2018, shall be deducted in accordance with art. 43, para. 2 where not applicable. Art. 43a, and in the order of Art. 43a. 43, para. 3 in cases where art. 43a shall apply to the year concerned. Proposal of the MPs Menda Stoyanova and Alexander Ivanov to create a new paragraph. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 29: ........................ 29...................................................... Article 82 shall not apply to changes in accounting policy as a result of the application of International Financial Reporting Standard 16 For tax purposes, the accounting revenue and expenditure arising from the change in accounting policy as a result of the initial application of the International Financial Reporting Standard is not recognised.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u98	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal of the importer for the name of the division supported by the Commission. The second text is in the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 25, which becomes § 28, and the Commission's proposal to create a new § 29 with a text, according to the Commission Report. They voted 107 MPs: 92, none, abstention 15. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26 and § 27, which shall become § 30 and § 31 respectively.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u100	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the two texts for § 26 and § 27 of the importer which shall become § 30 and § 31 and which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 87, none against, abstention 19. The proposals are accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u101	Under § 28 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "1." Paragraph 28 shall make the following amendments and additions: (a) c. 2: - new letters are .) in para. 1 the following changes are made: 1. in the introductory sentence, at the end of the text, after the words "art." Several thousand BGN is added. for any minor child. 2. points 1 (b) a new para shall be created. 2: The monthly tax base referred to in art. 42, para. 2 for employment benefits of the persons referred to in the previous paragraph shall be reduced by 500 BGN. for any minor child. (c) the previous para. 2 " 8" becomes respectively. 3... 9....................................................... (b) Points 6a 6d are created: 6a. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 42 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. in para. 3 is created t. 3: "3." the tax relief for children under art. 22c, para. 2. 2. para. 4 is amended as follows: The amount of tax due shall be determined as the monthly tax base under para. 3 shall be calculated according to the following table: (table applied) 6b. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 43, para. 3 words multiplied by the tax rate of 10 per cent shall be replaced by a bet under the table of art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. 6c. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 3 is amended as follows: The amount of tax due shall be calculated as the difference under para. 1 shall bet on the table referred to in Article 1. 48, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. in para. The second sentence of the sentence of paragraph 4 shall be added to the tax rate of 10 per cent and shall be replaced by a bet under the table of art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. ..6d. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 44a, para. 1 words multiplied by tax rate 10 per cent shall be replaced by a bet under the table referred to in art. 48, para. 1.................................................................................. (c) point 8 is amended as follows: It's 8 o'clock. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46 the following amendments shall be made: 1. paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The rate of income tax under art. Art. 37 and Art. 38, para. 1? 7, 9, 10 and 12 is according to the table referred to in art. 48, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. in para. 2 the number "s' is replaced by "seven' and, at the end of the sentence, after the word "years', a comma shall be placed and added to "seven' as well as for the incomes under art. 38, para. 11 and 13. Paragraphs 3 and 4 are repealed. (d) c. 9 the following amendments shall be made: - new letters are The title is amended as follows: "Determining the amount of the advance tax under art. Art. 43, Art. Art. 44, Art. 44a and the amount of tax on the total annual tax base. (b) paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The amount of tax on the annual tax base for income from business, for rent income or other provision for the use of rights or property, income from other sources under art. 35 as well as on the common annual tax base under art. 17 shall be determined according to the following table: (table applied). - the current letters................................................................................................ I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. - the following point is inserted: "D') 9 "D' is created: 11: In determining the amount of tax on the total annual tax base for non-prepaid income from employment benefits, art. 42.................................................................................. If the person has not received employment income, his other income included in the total annual tax base shall be reduced before taxation by BGN 6000. for any minor, if the debtor has children and is not deprived of parental rights. The reduction shall be declared and used by one parent of choice. The tax ceiling for the tax year may be deducted from subsequent advances and annual contributions to that tax due by a sole trader. Where it is established that the sole trader without justification deducts tax, interest under the Law on Interests on Taxes, Fees and Other Similar Government Claims shall be due for the non-payments and annual contributions. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. I'll only read it in the unsupported part: In Paragraph 28, paragraph 28 is replaced by the following: 12 letter to be dropped. Point 14, point (a) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f) to (f). The Commission does not support the proposal to drop point 12 (c) and point 14 (c) and supports the proposal for a new para. 15. We're going to the Additional Report now, Mr. Chairman. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 28, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Taxes on Income of Individuals (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The tax relief shall be used up to the amount of the annual tax bases referred to in Article 3. 17 and provided that the husband/wife does not benefit from the tax relief for the relevant tax year. (b) the creation of para. 6: When in violation of the condition under para. 3 both spouses have benefited from the tax relief, each of the persons owes the part of the tax corresponding to the amount of the benefit used. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The tax relief shall be used up to the amount of the annual tax bases referred to in Article 4. 17 and provided that the other parent, respectively the other foster parent, a relative or a relative, will not benefit from the reduction for the relevant tax year. Where the amount of tax relief is higher than the amount of annual tax bases under art. 17, the difference can be used by the other parent, respectively, by the other foster parent, close or relative, by submitting an annual tax return under art. 50. (b) paragraph 5 is repealed; (c) in para. 6 the words................................................................................................ 4 of the other parent (s) are deleted; (d) the creation of para. 9. If in violation of the condition laid down in para. 4 The full amount of tax relief is used by more than one person, each of the persons under para. 3 owes the part of the tax corresponding to the amount of the benefit used. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is (a) paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The tax relief shall be used up to the amount of the annual tax bases referred to in Article 4. 17 and provided that the other parent, respectively the other foster parent, a relative or a relative, will not benefit from the reduction for the relevant tax year. Where the amount of tax relief is higher than the amount of annual tax bases under art. 17, the difference can be used by the other parent, respectively, by the other foster parent, close or relative, by submitting an annual tax return under art. 50. (b) paragraph 5 is repealed; (c) in para. 6 the words................................................................................................ 4 of the other parent (s) are deleted; (d) the creation of para. 8. When in violation of the condition under para. 4 The full amount of tax relief is used by more than one person, each of the persons under para. 3 owes the part of the tax corresponding to the amount of the benefit used. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 2 shall be added at the end, including when the declaration is lodged in accordance with art. 53, para. 2 as well as in the order of art. 103 and 104 of the Tax Insurance Procedure Code. 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 t. Two is 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 38 are created. 14 and 15: The final tax shall be subject to the gross amount of the acquired cash and prizes of games, competitions and competitions not granted by an employer or a contracting entity. (15) The gross amount of income acquired by natural persons not registered as farmers, taxable income obtained in the form of State aid, subsidies and other support from the European Agricultural Guarantee Fund, the European Rural Development Fund and the State budget shall be taxed by final tax. 7. Article 45 is amended as follows: "Issuance of documents for income paid and tax withheld Art. 45. (1) At the request of the employer, the employer shall issue a business note on a model for the taxable income paid during the year and for the tax withheld during the year and compulsory social contributions. Where the official note is issued by an employer in the main employment relationship of the employee as at 31 December of the tax year, the tax withheld or reimbursed to the person in determining the annual amount of tax according to art. 49. (2) The fact that the employer is not an employer of the main employment relationship by 31 December of the tax year shall be established by a written declaration provided by the employee. (3) Upon termination of the activity of employers who do not have successors, the business notes under para. 1 shall be issued by the last representing the employer or by the respective territorial division of the National Insurance Institute where the paying payrolls and the annexes thereto have been transmitted under the Social Security Code. (4) An enterprise or self-insuring person within the meaning of the Social Security Code.................................................................................................................. 29 or 31, issue for income paid and tax withheld in accordance with art. 43 and 44 account for amounts paid in accordance with a template provided to or authorised by the person who acquired the income. (5) Upon request by the person the undertaking or self-insuring person paying the income under art. 29 or 31, issue a business note on a template for income paid during the year and for tax withheld during the year and compulsory social security contributions. (6) The account for amounts paid under para. 4 and the service note under para. 5 shall not be published in the cases referred to in Article 5. 43, para. 5. (7) Upon request by the entity or self-insuring person, the paying agent of income from other sources under art. 35 issue a business note on a template for income paid during the year and for tax withheld during the year. (8) The official notes under para. 1, 5 and 7 shall be issued within 14 days of the date of their request. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 46, para. 1 the words "s11 and 12' are replaced by "s11, 12, 14 and 15'. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 5. From the definitions laid down in para. 1 tax shall be deducted and the tax relief referred to in art. 22d, para. 2. (b) paragraph 8 is amended as follows: The tax under para. 1 and 2 shall be rounded to each full lev after the deductions under para. 3 - 6 when no discount is used or after the use of a discount. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1, t. 3 letter "in" the words "al." 8th para. The following shall be added in the Annex to Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011: 8, 13 and 14 (b) paragraph 4 is repealed. 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 51. 2 is amended The annual activity report shall not be submitted by the persons referred to in paragraph 2. 1 which during the tax year did not operate within the meaning of the Accounting Act. 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 the words "up to 30 April" shall be replaced by "from 10 January to 30 April"; (b) in para. 6 all over the words "January 31' shall be replaced by "March 31'; (c) the creation of para. 7. The annual tax return of self-insuring persons within the meaning of the Social Security Code shall be submitted by electronic means only. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 55 para. 3 is amended as In the declaration under para. 1 does not specify the tax payable by employers on employment income for which information is submitted in order and in a manner defined in a regulation issued by the Minister of Finance. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 2 after the words "Securities of income', the income payers shall be added as well as self-insuring persons within the meaning of the Social Security Code. (b) the creation of para. 3: In the event of deletion/disruption of the undertaking, the declaration referred to in art. 55, para. 1 shall be filed within the time limit and in accordance with the procedure for submitting the tax return under art. 162 of the Corporate Income Tax Act. Within the same time limit, taxes due under the declaration shall also be paid. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. 3 words the reference under art. 73, para. Article 1 (a) is replaced by the references referred to in Article 1. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The tax referred to in Article 3 (3) 46 for income under art. 38, para. 3 shall be withheld and imported by the company......... by the end of the month following the quarter in which the hidden distribution of the profits took place........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ (b) paragraph 7 is amended as follows: The tax referred to in art. 46 for income under art. 38, para. 8, 11 and 14 shall be withheld and imported by the undertaking or by the self-insuring person (s) of the income by the end of the month following the quarter during which the income is acquired by the natural person (s); (c) the creation of para. 14: The tax referred to in Article 1 (1) (a) and (b) of this Agreement shall be calculated on the basis of the following formula: 46 for income under art. 38, para. 15 shall be withheld and imported by the administrator of the aid concerned by the end of the month following the quarter of the acquisition of the benefit. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Paragraph 67 The tax payable under para. 4 and 5 for income of deceased persons in cases under art. 53, para. 3, 4 and 5 shall be imported within one month from the date on which the annual tax return by the heirs/arbidors expires. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1, in the text before t. 1 after the words the income paid during the year shall be added for the tax withheld during the year and the compulsory contributions of insurance; (b) in para. 4 in the sentence first, the words "seventh of March" shall be replaced by "seventh of February" and, in the sentence second, the words "seventh of liquidation or bankruptcy" shall be replaced by "sevent/seventh of termination." (c) paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The reference referred to in paragraph 5 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the Official Journal of the European Union. 1 shall be provided only by electronic means in the format and by order approved by the order of the Executive (d) paragraph 6 is amended as follows: The employer shall draw up a template reference for the employee benefits paid during the year and for the tax withheld during the year and compulsory social contributions. The reference shall also include information relating to the determination of the annual tax base and the annual tax under art. 49 for persons of whom the employer is the employer of the main labour force as at 31 December of the tax year. (e) paragraphs 7 and 8 shall be created: The reference referred to in paragraph 1 shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union and shall be published in the Official Journal of the European Union or in the EEA Supplement to the (8) Upon detection of an error in the data provided for a specific natural person in accordance with the preceding paragraphs, after the term under para. 4 debtors shall have the right to make changes to those data by 30 September of the year in which the information was provided. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 5 sentence second after the words (b) in para. The second sentence shall be replaced by the following: 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 81a, para. 1 sentence first is amended as follows: On request, a person who does not issue or provide the person who acquired the income, the templates referred to in art. 45 shall be punished with a fine or a penalty of up to 250 BGN, unless it is subject to a more severe penalty. 21. In § 1 of the additional provisions: (a) point 28 is amended as follows: It's 28. "Exercising' is the production of products or the provision of services carried out by a natural person engaged in a craft under the Law on Crafts, which is not registered as a sole trader. (b) c. 62 the number
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u102	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Colleagues, one message. An exhibition of children's digital drawings and collages from the town of Haskovo will be opened at 11.30 am at the Club of the National Representative. The exhibition is on the occasion of the Day of the People's Buddhists "November 1st." All MPs are invited to the opening. Thirty minutes of interruption in the work of the National Assembly. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u103	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with speeches on the reported texts. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak? Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen, the debates are really beginning on one of the most important paragraphs in this bill, namely the proposal of the Left to change taxation in the country. Before we get there, we also have another proposal that we consider extremely important in view of the demographic collapse. I am extremely happy to see so many young people coming to Parliament today, but the situation in the country is indeed extremely difficult. We disappear as a nation. We are the fastest disappearing state, provided there is no military conflict or epidemic. For this reason we propose that each family for each Bulgarian child should be reduced by the tax base of BGN 500. For every child, ladies and gentlemen, this means only for the parents who work. We're talking about working parents, not those who live on family benefits. We consider this a real step towards helping families. As much as GERB believes they do good things, if it were that good, people wouldn't leave the country. That's why we offer 500 leva each. to be reduced by the tax base for every Bulgarian child. This is a reduction from the tax due approximately 50 BGN. a month. I do not consider this to be a huge problem, but rather the first steps towards a modern tax system with the introduction of family income taxation. What we are proposing now is that we see that the so-called flat tax, 10% rock has already lived its time. If it were so modern and beautiful, all developed countries would have a similar tax system. Here to explain to our young guests this means that the rich people pay more, and those who have lower incomes and are not so rich, to have less pay, to have something extremely fair that happens in all developed countries, starting from the major European countries and getting to the most liberal state of the United States of America. I believe that the time of flat tax has passed. He could not contribute to limiting the grey economy. We also see the effect on foreign direct investment. I doubt anyone wants to invest in Bulgaria anymore because our tax system is good. On the contrary, one who wants to stay in a country permanently seeks a skilled workforce and predictable tax policy. We believe that what we propose is correct to the Bulgarian voters. When there are elections, we say what we will do, unlike the political party GERB, which says it will not increase the tax base, but we see that today there is a proposal to increase the maximum social income. It is a good thing to increase the maximum insurance income, we will support it, but you must be honest and honest with your voters and say this during elections, not then lie to them. We offer up to BGN 3900. The rate will remain 10%. This, ladies and gentlemen of the House, means that for 2 million 185 thousand working taxes will not increase, remain at 10%, which we consider correct and for the middle class is predictable, good and must be supported. For all over BGN 3,900. The scale is increasing. This is about the remaining 50 000 workers who receive high incomes, for example 8155 are people who receive incomes over 9,000 BGN, I am talking about monthly incomes over 9,000 BGN. This is the official data of the Ministry of Finance. We consider it necessary for these people to pay a much higher rate than those who receive a minimum wage. We consider this to be fair because in our society, justice is indeed a deficit. Very often here in this House, from this platform we are talking about catching up growth, we want to have Euro-Atlantic values, we are talking about European policies, and at the same time the European Commission is already giving recommendations for harmonisation of tax systems. Will we take such steps, do we have such a desire? We believe that this moment has come. What we offer from the left, we consider to be an extremely fair tax scale, which starts at 10% and increases by 2.5% for each amount above the top. Mr. Chairman, I'm ending with an appeal to all of you to join this debate. It is important that we hear the arguments...... and against... because sooner or later we will face such a decision. I see that GERB is already looking for maximum insurance income, you are going the right way. If you want to save time and not delay it over the years, let's be fair to the people who work with extremely low wages and have greater justice. The effect of what we offer is an additional revenue of 1 billion. 600 million. lv. in the Bulgarian treasury.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u105	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u106	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to add some arguments from Euro-Atlantic values and EU policy, developed and developing countries. One of our main arguments to want Bulgaria to follow the Euro-Atlantic values with regard to the tax system is that Bulgaria, according to the latest data of Eurostat, from 23 October this year, can remove them from the Internet anyone, is the Bulgarian tragedy with the social disintegration of the Bulgarian society. We are all Bulgarians before we are representatives of different parties. What's the situation? The Ginny Index, to clarify, called to Italian economist Corrado Ginny, used by the UN, the European Union and all organisations, shows what the disintegration of society is. The lower the index, the more normal the distribution and vice versa. The country with the highest index and the largest social spread is Bulgaria. I quote Eurostat: From 33,4 in 2009, when GERB comes to power, it is now 40.2 If you look at the curve of the Ginny index, you will see that in the last 10 years the social spread in Bulgaria is growing. Why is it growing? Because it has been scientifically proven by many laureates in economics, by thousands of publications and there is nowhere in the world counterargument that flat tax increases social polarisation. This is undeniable for world economic literature and practice. Because, colleagues, Hungary was 29.2 in 2009, now it is 28.1. Hungary is below the EU average of index 30. We are 25%, with 10 units above the average for the European Union. Poland from 27.5 is now 29.2 below the average European indicator. Romania was 34,5 in 2009, now 33.1 and dropping to the average of the European Union. Croatia 29.9. The Czechs are at 24,5. In other words, not only developed countries with an average of 30, but the former countries of the EU, our brothers, as we used to call them, passing through the transition, have indicators equal to, even better than the average of the European Union, weighted on average. Bulgaria is the most corrupt country! Why is she the most corrupt? Because corruption goes with poverty, too, according to Eurostat data, in the poorest country, with the largest social disintegration, with the largest corruption. Therefore, we, honourable Members, are offering progressive taxation, which is dominant in over 96. 97% of the United Nations member states. We do not want our country to remain in social divisions, typical of flat tax countries such as Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan and Mongolia, while in other countries Euro-Atlantic values are completely different, not only Euro-Atlantic, but also Japanese, Indian and Chinese! I want to tell you that we really need to stop this already becoming a ridiculous myth about low taxes and attracting investment. Foreign investments will comment on the first reading of the big budget. They are a tragic 60 70% this year less than last year, 14 times smaller than 2007 per person of the population, the most tragic country in the European Union. Investments run away to high-tax countries because they have better business conditions. Do you know how many investors have left Bulgaria? Two hundred and fifty million Bulgarian investments have gone from Bulgaria to other countries and peoples with high taxes. My fellow Members, there is no reasonable, logical argument - theoretical or practical - applied - which does not support our request Bulgaria to move towards progressive taxation. Thank you. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria and the students present on the balcony.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u107	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Are there any lines to the statement? Mr. Shopov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u108	I listen and I don't believe my ears. 13 years ago, when Ataka was speaking in that sense, Mr. Gechev, your fellow parties voted the flat tax. [[Laughter at GERB.]] Right now what you're doing is living demagogy. You're making propaganda. Know this: when such a tax is accepted, it is accepted to work for years to come, to work for decades. You, as a good economist, know perfectly well that this does not happen just today for tomorrow. This happens after a big debate that never happened because you passed it criminally. If you have any advantage, it is that here you are all new people, that in fact it was a genius trick of your chairman It's your tax, gentlemen of the BSP! [[Unique applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u109	Change it. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u110	He's gonna change. And that's gonna change.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u111	When?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u112	In perspective. That'll change when you have to. That will change, this tax. And not the way you suggest it. You're very careful. You offer a rock again propagandically, to pull the number again, to say: "We have removed, we have removed the flat tax, which weighs you like a millstone on your neck for so many years because your sociality cannot justify it. You cannot be a socialist party after you have introduced the flat tax you are currently fighting against! [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And stop demagogizing, stop lying! Stop socializing, stop demagogizing about it! [[Noise and lines.]] Now this tax won't change, you understand it yourself, but you're waving propaganda clichés, fairy tales, Mohabets, and from here on out of the stands, you're actually groping yourself. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u113	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. Is there a second line? Professor Stanilov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u114	When I have said from this tribune many times that you are not a socialist, but a social liberal party, you are protesting. What Pavel Shopov said is true, but he confused something else that this flat tax can be removed. This flat tax has turned Bulgaria into a corporate state and corporations, the large, high levels will not allow the flat tax to be removed and you know it very well: Bulgaria is a corporate state and neither can you be a socialist party because in Bulgaria left parties cannot have because oligarchy has taken over the entire society. [[Laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] There's nothing funny about this whole thing. This whole thing is tragic, it's tragic! Open all the notes of 2005, see what I have said from this tribune and what the members of BSP and the MPs said! Shame on you! Then there was a scandal, and you pushed it like that, with nothing. [[Noise and lines.]] Wait a minute! Mrs. Nino says the following: The BSP has a new guide, it has a new course, it will change the system. You can't break that tradition that made Jean Videnov go away. The son of the traitor Kolyo Dobrev is in the leadership of his party. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Do you hear what you're saying?! Am I without memory, or what?! What do you think I was then like you, you brat and I don't remember anything?! On the contrary, I remember how you betrayed him and betrayed the social idea. And you're not a socialist party, remember that! And the flat tax won't go away. You're a corporate party. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u115	Procedure. Is there another line to complete the procedure? I won't. Will there be a hole? Here you go, Mr. Gechev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u116	Thank you. Dear colleagues! Yes, it is true that the flat tax was introduced by the Triple Coalition. However, like the vast majority of my colleagues, as I stand before you, I would like to say that I am opposed to the flat tax of his announcement and during the discussion. Because I am not personally opposed, but by reading and watching what people in the world do, I have seen that the progressive tax is better as a system. That's how it was judged then, a mistake was made. Our question right now is, what are we doing? Are we gonna leave the mistake of the Triple Coalition for another 100 years? Until the index becomes 60 and until we become the most divided people not only in Europe, but also in Africa? Is that why we're here in Parliament? What's the problem? Dear colleagues, one more argument I will tell you in favour of Euro-Atlantic values. Seven thousand Bulgarians receive nearly 8 billion. lv. from dividends. We offer 10% tax, which would allow the Bulgarian budget, whichever is in charge, including you managing at the moment, you could count on another 4 billion. lv. in the budget! With that $4 billion. lv. We Bulgarians can solve a number of problems - social and investment, not to serve and stand on the phone when they call from Brussels or Washington. We are currently voting, honourable Members! Bulgarian citizens, the Bulgarian people expect us to change this unfair social system, which is good for the workers, which is good for the investors - Bulgarian and foreign, and which will restore social justice. We at BSP will support this change. Now it is your turn to say whether you are for the Euro-Atlantic values or against the Euro-Atlantic values. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u117	Thank you, Mr. Gechev. For the procedure the word wants Mr. Popov, then Mr. Tsonev, Mr. Gokov also recorded him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u118	Dear Mr. President, it is unacceptable to use such words as the son of the traitor, of this tribune, and so on, by the MP! You have taken absolutely no relation, not even a remark! I know your colleague is from your parliamentary group, but you should have done your job. We demand that the Rules be applied and you impose penalties because it is unacceptable that such a language should be exercised by this tribune! Anything else. Remind your colleague that when he blasphemes and talks about oligarchy, he is part of this job because he is in the government of this country! Thank you. [[Noise, lines, booing and cheering: "Oooh!" by GERB. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u119	Mr. Popov. Mr. Popov! Here you go. [[Relations from the place of the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev.]] The way I keep it, they want my word, Mr. Stoinev. I'm listening, Mr. Professor. Please, let's lower the tension a little bit!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, what Mr. Philip Popov said does not offend me, of course! I'm an oligarch, I'm very rich, I ride a Mercedes, I have palaces, palaces, scary things. I just... [[noise and lines]] When I say "traitor," I answer in the same way...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u121	Professor!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u122	... Nikolai Dobrev betrayed Jean Videnov and... [[Noise, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u123	Professor! Professor Stanilov! Professor Stanilov... [[(Noise, lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) National Representative Stanislav Stanilov spoke with microphones off.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u124	I don't have any faults... [[The National Representative Stanislav Stanilov spoke with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u125	Professor! [[The National Representative Stanislav Stanilov spoke with microphones off.]] Professor! Professor Stanilov, please! Dear Members of Parliament, the dialogue will obviously continue, sharpened. I share some of Mr. Popov's considerations. There is a way, let it turn around, we will solve it at the Chairman's Council in relation to words that have been said by the stands. I ask Professor Stanilov to do the same! We're going outside the context of the debate. Please! Let's continue with our speech. Mr. Tsonev made a statement. He's on the record. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor. I strongly believe it will be on the subject!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, dear young friends! [[It addresses the guests of the balcony.]] This is a debate about the tax system, about your future. You've seen how it's led and at what level? Because the BSP is turning to you! The social function of taxes is the argument against flat tax, even called the introduction of a mistake. However, when professors of economics speak out of this tribune and argue only about the social function of the tax, it is good to remind you that taxes have other functions of economics, first. Second of all, you fiscalist. Social function has the tax system, and every single tax. However, it is definitely not a leading one either in literature or in practice. The social function is most controversial in so far as direct social benefits lead to indirect social losses. That's very easy to prove. Because if the economic function of taxes is not considered, there is no way to account for the benefit of the general economic development and hence the revenue in the fissure, hence the revenue The economic function of the so-called flat tax here I would like to make an explanation. There's a lot of speculation about the tax plane. Its main function, however, when it was introduced was not so much the plane as the level of the rate of interest rate of 10% was our goal. The 10% rate that brightened the income increased the revenue in the fissure of this feather. In addition, it attracted an awful lot of foreign investments both Bulgarian and foreign, as strange as it seems to you! I'll prove it to you now. The most up-to-date current in the investment process is called There's a study of American scientists. I recommend a book that has recently come out of print: "Capital without capital." It is about investment in intellectual property in software, in high technology, in artificial intelligence, in smart parts of the economy. The most violently growing industries in Bulgaria after the introduction of flat tax, after the introduction of the 10% rate of income for individuals, and the corporate tax is the IT sector and outsourcing sector. Dear colleagues, these two sectors are only here because of the 10% rate. For no other reason! Absolutely none! I've had meetings with both associations. The profit level is very high. The wages are extremely high there. The conditions they receive because their office is one laptop and you know this perfectly well if we exclude the call centres that occupy only 16% of the entire outsourcing, everything else is in high technology. Two whole and two percent of gross domestic product is given by the IT sector at this time with a tendency by the end of next year to become 3%. Seven and four percent of the outsourcing industry is its share in gross domestic product. This is about extremely high technology. In these research by American scientists, it is said that investments in intangible capital, namely in this software, intellectual property, patents and so on, take place the fastest in small open economies. Colleagues, if we are going to make a programme for the development of Bulgaria, all together with this program will build factories, heavy industry, as we read in some other programs, or we will take a few steps in supporting this sector, which gives the highest amount of value that is actually a hit in the world [[the President signals that time has run out]] and which in Bulgaria is developing without any help from the state, except that there is low taxation! Low insurance and this makes Bulgaria attractive for these two sectors! Fifty thousand people are employed in the IT sector. This is the data of the associations, not my data because the professor likes to read statistics. Why is it not so in other countries? It is not because the stage of their economic development is different because they have other competitive advantages. They have a lot of other competitive advantages! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] What competitive advantages does our economy have besides this? Think about it and count it from here! Because the labor force is gone because the capacity is gone! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm out of time. I could tell you a lot more than that. The economic function of low taxation in direct taxes is exceptional, not to say at this stage, only a competitive advantage of the Bulgarian economy! The DPS will defend this tax. I do not have time, unfortunately, but here I can prove that the social introduction of the steep rock will not help Bulgarian citizens. [[The President signals that his time has expired.]] The proposals made by BSP have a plus 520 million, if it is only the scale, and if the family income tax they offer is taken, the total effect is minus 150 million. The fiscal argument is not an argument, although I put it in the background.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u127	Your time is really up, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u128	More important are the objectives of economic goals and everything else! If this tax remains, I argue that the money for social policy will be more. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u129	Thank you, too. - What's the line? First, Mrs. Stoyanova asked for a line, then Professor Gechev asked for a second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u130	Mr. Tsonev, 50 grand employed in the IT sector? Well, just as much in the statement of colleagues, it was said that they received more than 3900 and were taxed at a higher rate up to 25%! BSP wants to close the income scissors with exactly $50,000. Only through taxation, Mr. Tsonev, you don't close your income scissors! It closes with restructuring of the economy in innovative industries and activities with high added value, which will pay wages more than 3900 BGN. and increase those 50,000 people who get these higher salaries. This is the way, fellow Members, not the way to make equality by taking from the more educated, more qualified, more innovative, more working, if you want...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u131	Well, that's the way it is all over Europe! That's the way it is all over Europe! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u132	...to give others instead of stimulating through education, through qualification, through initiative the development of higher added value industries. But that's philosophy! This philosophy came from 40 years ago when there was no inequality. When the higher income line was much smaller, but everyone else was equal to the edge of misery. [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria: "This is not true!" (Applause from GERB.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Professor Gechev for a second line, please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u134	Thank you. Dear colleagues, what are the Euro-Atlantic facts? In a progressive tax, Euro-Atlantics collect about 43 " 45% of their gross domestic product," collect and pass through the budget. In flat Bulgarians are 35 " 36%," 10% are gone. [[Weak applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Very interesting? Two. Would you tell me, fellow Members, to come out here and tell me which country of the first 20 countries in the world on competitiveness is flat tax? Good morning! Not one! The first countries in competitiveness are with high taxes. The United States of America, Sweden, Denmark, Germany. [[Noise and lines.]] In the end, I will finish because I really am speechless! The other day, when I was coming back from Vienna from an economic discussion, I was looking at the plane full of passengers who opened notebooks. What are you doing? I'm yelling. Well, they say we're computer specialists from Switzerland, Germany and Denmark and we're flying to the flat tax. Bravo! [[(Applause, laughter from BSP for Bulgaria.) Noise and lines.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u135	Is there a third line? Mr. Zarkov, come in for a cue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Tsonev, you have started in your statement that it is speculated with the plane of the tax is important the rate. Then let's focus on the rate. The question we ask from BSP is: does it need to be one and the same for all? Whether we can think together and see how to make so that we take advantage of the different advantages of the low rate, but also not to close our eyes to other problems tearing the Bulgarian society apart. You're right when you talk about this sector that's evolving. Mrs. Stoyanova estimated them to be 50 thousand people who take these high wages. But can we close our eyes to one million and 600,000 people who work up to 1000 levs, to one million and 100,000 people who work, according to the Ministry of Finance, for under 500 levs. A month? Can we do so that through the tax system, which cannot balance but can help the economy develop through consumption? When you ask the question and it is very correct, how do we attract investment? A country that attracts investment only with its low taxes is not a country that can develop otherwise than as a tax haven, as a black hole for a variety of capital. That's why the investments that come here don't have the added value we're all looking for to pull the country forward. In addition, data from the last year show that flat tax is no longer sufficient, that foreign investments are withdrawn from the country for various reasons, the main reasons of the overall state's functioning. Our business needs more than low taxes. He needs all sorts of stimuli for development. At the moment, our economy is moving and we are trying to develop competitiveness of low taxes, on the one hand, and low labour on the other. This sends us directly to the lowest levels of the charts both in terms of justice and inequality and in terms of poverty levels, which in Bulgaria are ripping apart and we have no right to just pretend that we do not see them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u137	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Mr. Tsonev, come in for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u138	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I have nothing to say to my colleague Zarkov, because in most of his line, he has actually repeated my arguments. Taxes will not solve social problems, taxes can be an instrument, but not a decisive tool for solving social inequality, it is caused by many other factors. It is a topic of another discussion. One of the reasons being pointed out is globalisation, everything that happened with financial capitalism, etcetera, etcetera, but it's the tax system to say it's spreading... In addition, you know perfectly well that people with higher income pay a higher tax anyway. £1,000. The tax is 100, but 5000 is 500. This is about another increase, and it's good when you talk with arguments to say everything, because people who don't know imagine how rich people pay as much as the poor. No, it's not, but it could still be pó to be exact. Colleagues, the discussion needs to get into its professional level and into the comprehensiveness of the problem. The problem is very big and deep. I take it as my own mistake that both in the media and in parliament, somehow in the last four or five years, we have looked down on this discussion and see now they are offering a fall. There was a feeling in society that the panacea for the development of the Bulgarian economy is "if the flat tax falls." The flat tax is going down. The flat tax is dropping. Economic development is jumping. The flat tax is falling. The investments will return because they were not here now. See, the flat one was supposed to be an investment, and they weren't here. Well, you're right, colleague Zarkov, there are ten other factors for investment to come, but taxes remain one of those ten factors and it's unchangeable. If we change other factors that affect investment, other conditions, and leave the tax as it is, we will have much more success than playing around with people for solving their problems by betting 50 thousand people with a higher tax and a large part of them getting rid of them with laptops abroad. I won't be in charge of the plane, maybe the last sentence was your style, Professor Gechev. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u139	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. [[Applause from GERB and "United Patriarchs."]] It's Mr. Gokov's next speech, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, and I will talk about progressive taxation, and again from the aspect of poverty and inequality, because a comprehensive view on the macroeconomic development of the Bulgarian economy in recent years brings out extremely sharp problems in terms of policies to combat poverty and inequalities. I believe that some of the reasons for poverty and inequalities are also in the tax system in Bulgaria. After ten years in force, the flat tax showed its limited potential and led to strong negative effects for the Bulgarian society. Bulgaria is torn apart by the highest levels of economic inequality throughout the European Union. There is no poorer country than us, you know that. Differences between poor and rich are deepening and national wealth is concentrated in the hands of oligarchy where illegally, where absolutely legal. I will not talk about illegal wealth, there are others there to talk about the judicial system, but I will talk about legal enrichment. For example, how do you find 10% dividend tax and how seven thousand people in Bulgaria pay eight billion or vice versa was eight thousand people pay seven billion dividend per year? Foreign investments in Bulgaria are falling and the grey economy is not shrinking. It has long been time for Bulgaria to revise its tax policy and introduce progressive taxation. [[GERB lines.]] Even the union's call is in this direction to take from politicians and experts the right to decide how to distribute and what to spend our national wealth. I will not be a defender of the political actions and decisions of the past. The truth requires that we say that the flat tax was introduced during the management of the Triple Coalition with serious and insufficient economic growth and with motivation to brighten the economy. [[Noise and lines.]] It seemed to have worked and thus raised additional funds with which a number of social payments were financed. For example, a significant increase in pensions, equalisation of maternity in the second year with the minimum wage and so on. Today, someone will say that the flat tax has fulfilled what was expected of it, others will argue otherwise that it has not caused the grey sector to shrink. One thing is clear that the conditions today are different and the flat tax brings more and more negatives. We're suggesting that he drop out. I consider it a nonsense in a European state, which is a social state under the Constitution, to have a dispute about the tax rates and progressive taxation. Of course, increasing the efficiency of fiscal policy is important, tax revenues and compliance with tax legislation must be constantly improved. This should not be self-sustaining and always without compromises, and the financial stability of the systems should be provided unconditionally at the centre of any reform, and always to the detriment and at the expense of the users of the system of the people. We therefore offer a careful approach to dropping flat tax and introducing progressive taxation. We've studied the income picture of the entire 2 million. 288 thousand. and 73 working Bulgarians on employment relationships, distributed by income groups. After careful analysis of this distribution of the structure of tax revenues and, in particular, the high proportion of indirect taxes, we understand that this structure is aimed at reducing consumption and transfers the tax burden on lower income social layers. We have made our proposal, which is expressed in the introduction of progressive income taxation of individuals on a scale that retains the tax burden of 10% for people with monthly incomes up to BGN 3900, offering that in the future to be the amount of maximum insurance income, i.e. for 2 million. and 250 thousand working tax burdens do not change. For the remaining 47 "50,000 workers, the tax burden increases by 2.5% every 1300 BGN. over the maximum insurance income, reaching a 25% rate for monthly incomes above 10 thousand. £400. As all turn to these young people who are up on the balcony, and I will address them: You are young, beautiful and smart and the future is ahead of you! However, at the moment, as things stand, 40% of you will be doomed to poverty and inequalities in the future. [[Voices from GERB: "Eee! "]] , just because you did not choose to become IT specialists, you chose, for example, to become teachers, and the Bulgarian teacher, engineer and others are not in the position of the 50 thousand [[noise and lines]] Whoa, whoa, whoa,
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u141	Mr. Gyokov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u142	...whose rights protect the colleagues on the right. It is very good for all Bulgarians to fall into...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u143	Mr. Gyokov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u144	...the limits of that 50 thousand, that is, with incomes above BGN 3900...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u145	Mr. Gokov, please address the room.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u146	Unfortunately, this is not the case, and we should think about it when we think about the future of Bulgaria and our children. Thank you for the 15 seconds you've given me too much, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u147	Thank you. I'm already sorry it turned out that way. [[Laughter, noise and lines.]] You didn't speak at the gym, let's stick with it. We broke the rules. Here you go, Mr. Dimitrov, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u148	Dear Mr. Chairman, I am doing a procedure in the manner in which the debate is conducted in this Chamber. I think he crossed small, but still some boundaries that shouldn't have crossed. A moment ago I heard a representative of BSP who said that Bulgaria was a black country for investment, and this is at a time when we make every effort to attract Russian investors to the NPP of Belene, for a gas hub gas pipeline through Bulgaria. If we question these investments, why are we going to want them?! If BSP has problems with Russia to solve, let's not solve them through this room. The other thing is that we're starting to pick on who has or doesn't have what profession. Unfortunately, our voters can't all be MPs like you, Mr. Gokov, but we can't say that just because one person has no computer skills but has some artistic or other... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u149	Mr. Dimitrov, let's not break the procedure again. You said you wanted to take attitude in the manner of conduct. I expect you to... [[Replication of the MP Emil Dimitrov outside the microphones.]] This isn't a note to the host, I'm sorry. Correctly count on the opportunities given by the Rules. Please don't embarrass me and appreciate the words of each and every one of us, we're sensitive to it. Are there any more remarks? I won't. A line? I won't. People's representative Ivan Ivanov is listed for a speech. There's a list of those who want to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u150	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Let's stop time until you've sorted out the list.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u151	The next one is Mr. Popov, and then I'll set the others straight so we don't waste any time. We're gonna take the extra seconds we've lost. Don't worry!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u152	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I see that the debate has already sharpened the attention of the government because I was under the impression that it is extremely important, crucial for the next fiscal year and not only for it, but will lay the foundations for tax policy perhaps for the next year, it started to get excited. We were under the impression that only we here with the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we are discussing a Bill which today gives you a unique chance, honourable gentlemen of government, to you because it is clear that the Left supports it, as it imports it, with the Bill of Change, you have the unique chance to change the state's policy with regard to those who want to create a family to stay in Bulgaria. I am impressed that these young people upstairs, with interest, remain and listen to the debate because they are personally concerned with them. In the proposals we submit, notice, there are two elements: one is the one that concerns family income taxation and the other which concerns the taxation of personal income, namely the so-called flat tax, which has been seriously discussed. Things should probably split up and really look into what's being offered. Because these changes are the unique chance to accept them despite your Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov, who is doing everything he can to banish these people, insult them and what to do with them. Correct your mistake today, enter these tax reliefs for young families. Please agree with us. Get into the philosophy of politics that we offer, otherwise next time there's no one to listen to you here. This is the basis of everything that we want to do to give a clear signal and a clear meaning that the future is in those who want to stay here. What else did we offer? The philosophy of changing the so-called flat tax. Mr. Tsonev spoke here, I listened carefully... [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Flat tax is in one part. The scale we're entering is for a certain amount of income. You're talking about 50,000 people here, the IT sector. I take my hat off to these people. They work, they have added value of their work. And what happens to everyone else?! I'm sorry, but they're working on the threshold of survival. We are talking about investments and in Bulgaria investments have collapsed to unseen levels. Here come investors looking for low-skilled workers. We don't have highly qualified labor. And this group, this layer of Bulgarian population will remain there because it has already lost self-esteem that it can be educated, rise to higher levels and work in higher-tech production. That's the power. I come from a region where foreign companies currently invest, including from a neighbouring country, and there is no one to work because they offer low-tech production for the simple reason that they are looking for low-paid labour. We have to stop this process. Today's the one chance, I'm telling you again, let's do this thing. The budget is not being damaged in any way. Yeah, we put one up on a pedestal, but we don't think about the other. That $2.5 million, where are they staying?! If we don't give them a hand today, don't we decide to give them the opportunity to increase at least consumption, because that will also increase domestic production, what is not export-oriented? These are interrelated things. They were right to say that the tax policy has different functions: social and fiscal, and so on. But they're interlinked because when there's no one to pay taxes at some point, what's going to come into this budget?! [[GERB lines.]] See the reports your Ministry of Finance gave with a GERB minister that 8,000 people in this country accumulated last year from 7 billion incomes. lv. What if they're not disproportions?! Mrs. Stoyanova says the scissors weren't so open. It's not open, it's broken this scissors, it's gone. I don't know how it's gonna close. Today, an incentive must be given in this direction. And our calculations are that we do not damage the budget, on the contrary, these funds are included in the budget. These calculations are made by specialists, by people who deal with this fiscal policy. And those, again, who are directly interested, are listening today with interest and are interested in how we will vote. Because the BSP has made its reckoning. You say: the flat tax was introduced by us. Yes, introduced, but it exhausted its function. He has achieved his results. That is the truth. Over. Vote, people! Vote, otherwise you will remain in history as people have buried the state. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u153	Thank you. Mr. Tsonev, the line, Mr. Ermenkov, second line. Here you go, Mr. Tsonev. First line to the speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u154	Very short line, Mr. Ivanov. How does this offer help people with low incomes? Their tax remains the same because you said, "And the others, and the others?"! The tax on them remains the same.. 10%. What exactly are you helping them with? We appeal not to interfere with those who have the opportunity... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] If your answer is ready, don't make a line. [[Heckling]] I'm doing it right now. Our appeal is not to hinder those who can increase gross domestic product, can increase the aggregate value of the whole economy, not to hit the poor. On the contrary, our appeal is not to think that we will close the social divisions by betting a very small segment instead of 10, by 20%. Let's not fall into this delusion. Offer relief for these people and we will support them if they are reasonable, but do not say that taxing high levels of income helps poorer people. Well, it doesn't help them at all. [[Heckling]] Prove it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u155	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Ermenkov, second line. Third line, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u156	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, please, I have listened to you carefully and the address is to the young. The danger is that next time there will be no one to listen to us, because with this tax policy, with the politics at all regarding people, they will escape. And I would just ask you to explain to me, do you have an answer to the question: why do the young people we all talk about and strive to keep them here are fleeing our flat tax country in countries with extremely differentiated income tax? Maybe because they're masochists or because they don't know about finance?! That's what I'm going to ask you to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u157	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Mr. Bikov for a third line to the speech of the National Representative Ivan Ivanov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u158	Mr President, honourable Members, this debate also has a political part, it is not only economic. I think enough economic arguments have spoken. But this debate was held and its end came on 25 March 2017. Then Bulgarian citizens gave a mandate to GERB not to change tax legislation [[BSP's lines for Bulgaria]] and did not give a mandate to BSP, which was one of your main ones. People said, "No, we don't want to drop the flat tax. " We won't lie to our voters because our name is not BSP. [[Applause from GERB.]] We are following our program and, as we said in the election campaign: we will not cancel the flat tax. It's our commitment to the voters. Secondly, it is nice to compare Bulgaria with different countries, but it is better to compare it with Bulgaria. What was Bulgaria like in 1998 with the progressive tax and inequality in 1998? What was 2008, what was 2018? This is the correct analysis. I am not saying that the progressive tax is bad or good, there is no good tax, as they say, but the progressive tax is no guarantee that inequality will be destroyed. Plus, inequality, colleagues, is natural. There's a natural inequality, and we can't all be equal, and we're not equal. I don't know what this battle has been going on for 200 years with this desolate inequality that ends with poverty each time. We will not support your proposal because if we support it, it means lying to our constituents. And to us, our constituents are more important than the BSP. That's the way it is. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u159	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. Mr. Ivanov, come on in. There were three lines to your speech. Come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u160	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I was very interested in listening to your lines. Mr. Tsonev, I will appeal to you: support our proposal in the part about family income taxation. It's an incentive. [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] That's right here in this paragraph. We're not pulling him out because things are coming together. Support us, it's the truth! [[Replys from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] They're in one paragraph, Mr. Tsonev. That's right, they go together. Increasing revenue in the budget will enable even more social policy that is the truth. Mr. Ermenkov, with the state policy currently under way with regard to the taxation of these young people, there is no way to return them, of course, there is no way to return them. There is no way they can nest here and stay in Bulgaria. Really, with the planes and the laptops, they're going out. And, Mr. Bikov, I was very interested in listening to you because I remember, and your former boss Mr. Ivan Kostov said that this tax has run out of time. But you may forget your previous presences in politics, but I must remind you of them, because it must still be known. Unlike GERB, BSP does not lie because BSP in its election program said it will introduce progressive taxation. And we're introducing him. [[Noise and lines.]] And we keep our promises. Who gave whom an assessment, it seems to me that very soon someone will give an assessment, because the mandate of this government is just ending. It's a matter of days, of months, that's the truth. [[Greece and lines from GERB.]] And you'll get the proper evaluation, I have nothing to say to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u161	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Philip Popov has the floor to speak. There was a request for the list of the Members of the National Assembly: Nikolay Alexandrov, Mr. Lambev, Mr. Alexander Ivanov and Mr. Zhelyo Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u162	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In Bulgaria there is clearly a demographic not crisis, but a demographic disaster - poverty and inadequacy. This is the scourge for Bulgaria, this is the scourge for the Bulgarian state in the future. And on this background you, because you promised five new taxes: municipal tourist tax; new tax on insurance premiums; new municipal tax on taxis; change of taxes on vehicles now. Since 2019, which affects more than 50% of the fleet in Bulgaria, because the tax on the poor and those who own old cars will be raised; tax interest; you raised excise taxes, fuels, everything in Bulgaria is raised as prices. The structure of tax revenues and, in particular, the high proportion of indirect taxes, the focus of this structure on the poorer, on social layers with lower incomes, namely the poor, leads to the thesis and to the conclusion that progressive taxation should be introduced that is. And you understand it, but you pretend that you do not understand it. Thirty-nine thousand people in Bulgaria receive a salary of over 5 thousand. The remaining 1.5 million from 500 to 1000 leva. They're working poor! Another thing I would like to say, because there is talk about what the purpose of tax laws was: every single law on its basis is intended to be fair, albeit tax, the same basis they have. We were gonna scare the business away. Dear MPs, in Bulgaria there is a triangle of power, a pyramid of the Bulgarian pharaohs. In its lower right-hand corner sits the business, represented by Ginka Varbakova, in the left-hand corner of Valeri Simeonov, and above, in order to keep the construction stable, do not break Mr. Borisov. It scares the investors, it scares the business, not the taxes, and it's good to know. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u163	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Mr. Nikolay Alexandrov, come in for a speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I believe that we have been going through this debate from the very first second to the topic of political speaking, which is normal because it is still a National Assembly. Perhaps on this line this comes as a directive, as an order from BSP's very leadership, perhaps from Mrs. Ninova, because when you try to turn lawyers into populists, economists into extras, things don't go well.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u165	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u166	Understand that if you want to lead and, as you say, that you are having a debate about the tax system, you have a very good friend of mine Mr. Peter Kanev and you do not need to humiliate him and bring down his reputation by trying to present him for a debate on the tax system. This is not a debate on the tax system, and you know yourself those of you who are dealing with economics, but not all that the tax system should be predictable and predictable enough to be able to carry anything. It was interesting to me that the best economic statement from this tribune made colleague Krum Zarkov, who said one very simple thing: "One country, if it relies only on flat tax, it is a tax haven. The tax system and the flat tax, as well as trying to make it the biggest Satan in the country responsible for all the troubles of our decade and our 30th of transition, is not the case. We cannot say with the hand of the heart that the tax at the moment or this government that is currently ruling the state are Satans, and you are very good. Here to open the clamp and congratulate Mr. Ivan Ivanov, who, as a male boy, came out and said from this tribune: "Yes, we have introduced the flat tax and yes, it has run out of money. " - Because this is the role in which he should stand and say the president of a political party and he should bear the blame and from this tribune say: "Yes, we introduced it, yes, we were wrong then. In order not to be wrong and now in this way, I suggest that we have a wider discussion, a broad debate on the tax system, without trying to fall into unnecessary populism, both we and you say: we speak to young people, we speak to adults and so on. Understand that in order to make this reform of the tax system, there must be concessions from everyone. It's for everyone, it should be used and everyone should focus on it. However, if we let piari and a group of sociologists turn into all sorts of scientists, tell us exactly what to say, how to say it, how to look better on the cameras, what we're going to do is gonna be way worse than what it is right now and it's not gonna lead to anything. So, colleagues, please, I also have suggestions. Let me be constructive. Allow our colleagues in the ruling majority to be constructive, not destructive. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u167	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. The line, Mr. Popov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u168	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Alexandrov, every year you call for a wider debate. We've been offering this debate to you for three years and you're always running away, it's not the time. Let's reschedule for next year. Three years! In these three years the inequalities are deepening, however, it is still not the time. Let's give, let's see, sometime in the future to make a task force, something to think of, but not now. We've been offering it for three years! Why are they hiding?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u169	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there a third line? Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u170	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. Dear Mr. Alexandrov, I have been listening to your speech and I see that you are moving slightly in the right direction. Just so you know, Mr. Alexandrov, when the flat tax was passed during the Triple Coalition, I do not think it was a mistake. He has fulfilled his function, but to date he has exhausted his abilities. We are not the only ones saying this, the whole Bulgarian society is saying it! [[Noise and lines.]] He wants justice now because he's chasing investors, gentlemen. That's true! Stop that thing, listen to me! Now is the unique chance, Mr. Alexandrov, that your party will wash its face because of those proposals that have been tabled to simplify itself to a businessman of 50 million. lv. and to support the elimination of this tax, which is currently. This is your chance, and I really am telling you: correct this mistake today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u171	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Third line? Come in, Mr. Mitev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u172	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Alexandrov, I expected in your speech to analyze not only who introduced it but also when it was introduced. At least I got the impression that BSP introduced and defended the flat tax when it was in government. When he's in opposition, all of a sudden this flat tax is bad. He's good when they're in government, he's bad when they're in opposition. From what I have heard from you about this discussion, I was not under the impression that the proposals we see between first and second readings, not as separate PIDs imported at the beginning of the year, but tabled at the end of the year, are not a prerequisite for such a broad discussion, but rather a prerequisite for destructiveism, something you denied in your speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u173	Thank you. For the doppelganger, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and thank you to your colleagues. I'll start in the order in which my colleagues have spoken. Mr. Popov, 2014 If memory serves, you were a member of Vidin, as you are now. You can take a look at the votes of 20.02.2014 when we tabled a flat tax proposal because a flat tax debate is not made on 1 November between first and second reading and the debate on flat tax is made with a long horizon. This is the predictability you are talking about and trying to talk about. When you see the vote and it turns out that you voted against it, or abstentioned, then turn to the mirror and ask your questions there. Mr. Ivanov, it is not a question of whether I am walking towards the right path, the bad thing is that you have strayed from it. You've strayed very cruelly from him because you're trying to listen to what a group of piari will tell you and what a group of sociologists will tell you, set to three pieces, and then what they'll write on the leaves. That you think should be 100% true. From there on out, if you have anything else you think you should slander, we see each other in court like men's boys, we understand each other, it's okay. In any case, it's on you, as they say. Mr. Mitev, let's do a flashback. Yes, indeed BSP is the party, if I am mistaken, correct me, which as a successor to the Triple Coalition bears responsibility for the flat tax. At Oresharski's office, the flat tax was maintained. At the moment, the offer to cancel the flat tax between first and second readings, if you want to talk it to the people above, I will tell you very simply, represents an absolute lie because it is a kind of manipulation. This manipulation aims only to attract voices without leading to a positive result. If we were honest and we really wanted to do it, we would have stood here before and in the face of the party's chairman to take responsibility and say: yes, he has actually done his part in this period. Please excuse us if it was negative. We regret that at the moment you consider it negative, we want to change it, not between first and second readings. Follow our example and in February introduce a debate, and we will participate constructively. I agree that there are certain arguments in some of your speeches, but I still tell you: it is not right for a lawyer of yours to have the best economic statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u175	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. Mr. Ivanov, in the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u176	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, I think we have heard the main ones about.......................... the maintenance of flat tax. For this reason, I am making a procedure to put an end to the debates following the conclusion of those who have signed up for speaking at the moment. Thank you. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u177	Mr. Ivanov, your proposal includes a hearing of those who signed up. Let's hear it, I'll put it to the vote. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u178	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have two procedures. First of all, I'm making a reverse proposal to what I just heard. It's not in the way it's been announced, it's quite different. I'm making a reverse offer. These are important laws that concern every Bulgarian citizen, and let us not beat them up again, let us hear the arguments of everyone who wants and has what they say, and therefore it is in the National Assembly to speak, especially when it comes to tax laws, about changes in taxes determining the life of the Bulgarian citizen from now on. That's why I'm making a reverse offer. Secondly, regarding the manner of conduct. Dear Mr. President, please, when the speaker, replicator or duplicater of this tribune is Mr. Alexandrov, trying to manipulate and mislead not only the hall but also a large part of the MPs who were here in 2013 and 2014, but not all of them were. As a matter of fact, it should be said that BSP again offers the same progressive taxation, but then we were not supported by the DPS. Is that right, Mr. Alexandrov? That's right.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u179	Mr. Popov, do you have a suggestion?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u180	I just want to make it clear, because there's been a misconception... [[The National Representative speaks with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u181	Dear Mr. Popov, I've muffled your microphones and there's no point in continuing. The two spoke in favour of the proposal to end the debate and the other abused the procedure in the manner of conduct. This is not a procedure in which such proposals may take place. We are continuing with the Members of the National Assembly for a speech. The procedure was exactly the way it was conducted and I tried to explain that it was abused the manner of conduct and proposals were made... [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Mr. Philip Popov spoke in the manner of conduct and made a reverse proposal. Okay, let's not get into any debate. A proposal has been made to end the debates by Mr. Stanislav Ivanov after the signing of the enrolled MPs. There's a reverse offer. We vote on Stanislav Ivanov's proposal. They voted 143 MPs: for 94, against 49, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Professor Gechev, state your reasons for this procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u182	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Some of our colleagues have not been able to vote, and I think that colleagues have not understood what we are voting on. The Law on the Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria is discussed. Since you've been silent for three hours, you want to end the discussions. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u183	Mr. Gechev, I'm going to put him to re-election. [[Heckling]] Listen to me, I'm going to put your proposal to a re-vote. We vote on the proposal of the MP Stanislav Ivanov after the speech of the enrolled MPs to end the speeches and discussion of the bill. Vote 151 MPs: 98 against 52, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We continue with speeches on the list already drawn up. Here you are, Mr. Lambev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u184	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The big problem with this debate is that there is no consensus on it! The big problem of this debate is that once again there is no agreement on the direction in which Bulgaria should move! The big problem is that this debate divides again instead of gathering positions! The big problem is that this debate is not seeking consensus but seeking opposition! The problem of the problems is the lack of the result of this debate that the poor in Bulgaria will become more and more poor, and the rich will become richer and fewer in number. If words such as social justice and equality for some are just terminological principles, for more than half of the Bulgarian population this is a matter of survival every day. After 10 years of introduced flat tax are obvious negative and severe consequences that have for poverty and inequality in society. The attempt to insinuate guilt for a decision that was right 10 years ago does not result in a result, but results in fierceness. To date, if the state does not ensure that those who receive most of the public resources will also pay a fair share of what they receive from the public resources, then we cannot in any case talk about progressive governance. If we continue with this model of unfair income taxation in Bulgaria, the demographic picture, which everyone is very worried about, will continue to deepen. The feeling of injustice, the feeling of injustice in society will lead to severe consequences in the further development of the state and society. If we do not have consensus on this issue and we do not reach a compromise as the political forces represented in the Bulgarian Parliament, we will not be able to take a step forward as a society. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u185	Thank you, Mr. Lambev. Here you are, Mr. Mareshki, for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Lambev, I replicate two things: one of the things you said is that there is no consensus. Since the last vote, I have noticed on the monitor, and I have had the opportunity to inform myself of four of the parliamentary formations in this Parliament, i.e. 80% of the parliament's composition as represented parties and coalitions, supported the last vote, which shows an enviable consensus. After all, there are always differences, and if they are 100%, I think it would not be very correct. The second thing I allow myself to replicate is that there really is a strange discrepancy. In addition to being a discrepancy, it is strange, namely that millionaires in and supporting BSP are much more than those who are in and supporting GERB, which is strange. Basically you must be the social party, fight for the socially weak, and you give a whole other tone in society, showing quite other people like Bencho Benchev and so on. You don't really have to be against this discrepancy. You should be pleased that the situation is such that your members, sympathizers and supporters are more favorable. That's my two lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u187	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Are there any other lines to the speech of the National Representative Valentin Lambev? I don't see any desire for any other lines. The People's Representative Alexander Ivanov is enrolled for speech. Excuse me, Mr. Lambev. I thought we agreed on the issues you raised. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u188	Thank you. Mr. Mareshki, once Evlogi and Hristo Georgievi, who were the richest Bulgarians of their time, have donated all their wealth and now close to the National Assembly there exists the oldest higher education institution in Bulgaria. The Sofia University because they probably realized that the state they have accumulated is worth nothing if it is not used for the benefit of society. Otherwise, wealth becomes self-purpose. Therefore, including the rich people in Bulgaria must realize the need that they have a public commitment to this society, which has made them rich, of course, thanks to their initiative and perseverance. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u189	Thank you. Now the word for speech has Mr. Alexander Ivanov. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u190	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we have long since come out of the debate. I therefore allow myself to make a very brief statement. At the very least, colleagues from BSP.. importers of this proposal between first and second reading, now is not the time and you know it very well. This is a long time ago so well-heated meal from you, which, when you want to direct some media attention, you lift this ball into the air and expect it to roll into space. I understand that. You're looking for attention. You are looking for attention, you are circling the country and when the time comes for this debate, you do not take into account at least the economists and financiers who have spoken in defence of one and the other thesis. Surely there are also supporters of what you say, but as was set out in your election programme, it was not supported as widely as the statement and application of the Political Party GERB to maintain 10% flat tax. I think that, just in the week before we discuss the budget, the serious social impact of the budget is 900 million. BGN, there will be more only for social policies next year. You are to go out and say now to change the tax model without knowing what the effect for next year will be and what estimates the budget will take, commitment to the socially weak, the unemployed and so on!? Taxation here has been implied by some colleagues, and that, as far as I know, without being professors of economics and finance and other sciences, were much more right in the speeches they made than the professors of your parliamentary group. Colleagues, the function of taxes is not just social. You've been told what the other functions of taxes are. The most important thing for investors is the call for predictability in the tax policy that is being conducted, a tax calendar is said. You cannot propose such a radical change in the tax system at the end of the year and expect it to be accepted by the business, by the working people. That's not gonna happen! We will continue this debate in the future for sure and let us lead it, but not at this time Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u191	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? Mr. Stoynev, if you would like one line to choose from, please, as there is a desire from another parliamentary group. Speculate each other for the third line. [[Heckling]] Mr. Stoinev, please come in. I interrupted you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u192	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, when should we have this debate, if not now? Should we take him on May 1st? May 9th?! When should we have the debate? Now is the time and it is quite normal to have this debate now. I don't see why you're so nervous about this.! It's good to have this debate first year, second year, third year, let's have it. You see, trade unions hold special meetings on the debate on the dropping of flat tax "Support" a few days ago, a month ago it was the order of the CST. But what's the difference between you and me? When the elections come, we are correct to the people and we say what lies ahead if we are in power. You promised I'd apologize for pointing out that you wouldn't raise the tax burden, only that you are. You're lying to them. That's the difference between you and us. We're telling people what to expect, while you're raising the maximum social security income, which is the right step, yet I say the right step is, but at the same time you lied to them because you de facto... Not to mention the old car tax, but it'll be a good time not to waste time now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u193	Second line, Mr. Nikolov. [[Heckling]] Excuse me, Mrs. Zhekova, from other parliamentary groups should take attitude, because from your attitude you have already taken Mr. Stoinev. Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u194	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, I am making a line about this because you, too, not only colleagues on the left, have affected the social effect of taxation, of course, and flat tax. Colleagues say that flat tax has led to this great inequality and dissolution of the scissors, what they have introduced, for which I welcome them to have done so. They said that young people are leaving Bulgaria, but they simply forget that they are the successor of a party. The Bulgarian Communist Party, which, in fact, then had exactly the kind of tax they want to introduce. Where has this led to 1991 with the signing of the Agreement with the Paris Club?! Then the late Lukanov signed this agreement. What is the Paris Club like? In 1956, it was created that, in fact, countries that could not pay or want to reschedule their payments had to sign this agreement. In reality, this led to the expulsion of young people and to this demographic crisis. That is what I mean, Mr. Ivanov. You can develop this topic and this thesis, not that the flat tax is to blame. The flat tax has led to what Bulgaria is now. With this growth of both GDP and income collection, which, of course, are thanks to GERB. Thank you. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u195	Mr. Shopov, would you like a third line? [[Noise and lines.]] About what? [[Heckling]] I'm sorry, but look, we're not gonna argue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u196	No, no. I'll do the line, Mr. Stoinev. I will address you: only three years ago you were a minister in the Oresharski government.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u197	Mr. Shopov, we're really breaking... The line is to Mr. Ivanov's statement. Please! [[Noise and lines.]] Mr. Stoynev, you insist that I keep an eye on order, and when I do, you replicate from place to place. Please! There's a possibility for a third line that hasn't been realized. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u198	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, several times here we talk on the topic: what are the tools for making social policy. You have reproached your fellow Members on the left that they propose and stress that we must make social policy through taxes. At the same time, you immediately said that in the 2019 budget. We'll talk about it over the next few days, you're offering 900 million. for social policy again from taxes. I want to remind you of something you should know if you've read the Constitution? You must have read it. There it is written that the social function of the state passes through the insurance system. It is the insurance system that ensures that the relevant insurance risks are covered, and only the second protection network of the State is the social support system financed by taxes. When we talk about assistance, we need to be aware that we are neither the United Arab Emirates nor Qatar nor Kuwait! We can't help with naturalization. What we can do is help those in need. When we do it through taxes, there is always the situation that we are facing today, and whatever money there is from the taxes allocated for assistance, they always turn out to be less at some point. This is the big difference between what you said and what we think from our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u199	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. That was the third line. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u200	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Nikolov, thank you for bringing me back to this subject, but I don't want to go that far back. I just want to remind you who really offered the flat tax, and I don't know why my colleagues are saying that it had run out. On the contrary, middle class is created, colleagues, and has been created already. Over 200,000 people, as much as you're trying to... [[Loud noise. Announcements from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] More than 200,000 people, this middle class, which you currently want to edify, say it's the bad one, and bet it with more taxes. On the contrary, people with higher incomes now, anyway, pay more taxes, and it is explained to you lv. is more than on a lower income. The policy that makes GERB through the budget and specifically for people's incomes is by increasing the minimum wage This is the incentive of people to work, and as you can see, this is happening because unemployment this year is obviously going to reach record low levels, and by 2021 it will be 4%. At the moment, the tax policy and incentives it has for workers are good, will increase and will result in more revenue being collected on a fissure and there will be more for social costs. This is also my answer to Dr. Ademov, for my words in connection with the fact that we want to make social policy through taxes. It's not like that. I say that the tax system is currently the tax rate, this predictability of tax collections and those who want to invest, and those who want to work, the economically active entities will pay such a percentage tax in the coming years. This proves that the tax system is currently working. The flat tax, in addition to fulfilling its functions, continues to carry them out because we see that the 2019 budget is collecting five billion more. There will be five billion more to spend, which will go to social policy, to education, to defence this can now be discussed with you next week in the Chamber. I hope we will do this precisely from this tribune, but we will not change the tax system at the end of the year so that there is no predictability for active people employed in the economy and business. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u201	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Statement of the MP Mr. Zhelyo Boychev. This is the last speech on the list that we have drawn up and voted on to end the discussions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u202	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I am pleased that our proposals have sparked this debate. He needs it. I hope the Bulgarian citizens have heard a great deal of the conclusions that have been drawn here, but several things seem to be worth repeating. It is obvious that the flat tax at the moment is no longer performing its functions, and neither do we have any more tax collected, as is quoted here, because from the ratio between indirect and direct taxes you will see that the budget is mainly based on indirect taxes, which are about 70% of the revenue collected and which, you know, burden the lowest income groups; neither does the official investment statistics show an increase in investment, but on the contrary, the exact opposite trend. And even more unpleasantly, we continue to move towards a society with growing social inequalities and all measurers order our country the last place. These were the arguments and reasons for another year to make this proposal. There is no better time than when tax laws are discussed, to make this proposal and to hold this debate. There is no better time than when we are on the eve of the adoption of the budget and we are essentially in the budget procedure, making this conversation. The argument that you see, now wasn't the time. We were just talking about some middle class that our country has. It is good to get acquainted with a reference we requested and received from the Minister of Finance Mr. Goranov about the distribution of the income received by the Bulgarian citizens. Many conclusions can be drawn there, but categorically the conclusion that is visible is that there is no middle class in our society. It is worth paying attention that around 54% of the workers in Bulgaria receive income equal to or less than the minimum wage. We have to say that the vast majority of people employed, and they, according to this reference, as of July 2018, are 2 million. 288 thousand. The vast majority of them receive incomes equal to or lower than BGN 1000. That's a little over 80%. For this middle class, which receives over BGN 5200. by reference, I can tell you that it represents 1.1% of the Bulgarian society that receives such income. What disturbs me and I would like to comment on another fact that has not found enough room in the debate so far is the information that we have received from Minister Goranov on the amount of dividends and liquidation shares declared in favour of individuals for 2017. Notice, colleagues, it is a question here that the total amount of these declared incomes is over 7 billion. The Commission therefore concludes Through dividend income, this type of huge amount is distributed. You know that very often this is also used to give extra salaries to workers, and very often it is also used for quite uncontrolled practices in the Bulgarian economy. But the big conclusion we can draw from this amount is that we have an extremely unfair distribution of added value and the wealth generated between employers and workers. We have a great injustice between taxation of labour and capital. And this was one of the main arguments to seek correction of this tax legislation. The fact is that taxes are not the only element that achieves social justice in a society and does not smooth out social inequalities, but it is also the fact that they are an element of this and can be a step in overcoming these inequalities. That's why we made this offer. For us, social justice is not some abstract moral category, it is a necessity and therefore we believe that the tax policy proposed by us enables large parts and groups of Bulgarian society to see an improvement in their standard of living and a sense of greater justice in Bulgarian society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u203	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. For a line, Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u204	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Boychev, with great respect to you, I will not comment on what you are proposing as tax changes, but I will tell you from personal experience as a mayor who managed the second largest city, keep in mind that tax policy is the finest mechanism of a government and very carefully consider the changes in a tax policy. See the other countries - it is absurd to change taxes at the end of the year when the framework of a budget is already ready. We'll blow the budget, understand! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] My idea is this: yes, you can look for a tax change, but usually, if you see the practice, taxes always start to change at the beginning of a year. [[Replies from "BSP" for Bulgaria "Why didn't you do it?"]] If anyone wants to replicate me, take the floor. And remember this thing, colleagues, in a very broad public debate. Taxes don't just concern social policy. Taxes concern the functioning of an economy and so on. Therefore, colleagues, make this proposal at the beginning of the year, to go through a serious public discussion, to hear the opinions of the business, to hear the opinions of NGOs, to hear even what we are talking about for social policy. That's how you make a tax change. As mayor, I admit, I have dropped Plovdiv's taxes, and very seriously. Plovdiv was declared the most social city in Bulgaria under my management, but it is done when the time comes, and not now. At the end of the year, to change the tax framework. I hope you understand that. I repeat, I hope you understand! Make this proposal at the beginning of the year, to have a serious discussion with various guilds and then to touch taxes. The budget is almost ready right now. He's practically ready to go in on Tuesday.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u205	Mr. Atanasov, the weather.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u206	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u207	Thank you, too. Second line, Mrs. Stoyanova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u208	Mr. Boychev, I urge you not to listen to anyone who talks. Such changes are not made at the beginning of the year, they are made in the first year of term after won elections [[Applause from GERB]] with a program in which these are laid down by you and by the mandate which the electorate has given to take place. And when that happens, you'll have a chance to do it. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u209	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Is there a third line? I can't see. Mr. Boychev, will you take the floor for the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u210	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Atanasov, if I listen to you, there should be no debate on the adoption of the budget at all. You say we must be careful in our proposals. Yeah, we're careful. I would even say that the proposal we have made is a rather timid first step towards fairer taxation. I would like to say that our proposal is stepping on official data and estimates from the Ministry of Finance, and it does not in any way harm the revenue side of the budget. Moreover, if we move on to this model of taxation, there will be over 1 billion in the revenue side of the budget according to our estimates. lv. More revenue. Why are we raising taxes at the end of the year? I will follow your vote in a moment, Mr. Atanasov, because a few paragraphs later you, I mean the ruling majority, propose changes precisely in the way of determining local taxes and fees precisely at the end of the year. I'll see here how you'll vote on it. Mrs. Stoyanova, yes, you're right. I am delighted to see the policy you are leading, because it will inevitably lead to BSP having the opportunity to implement its management program. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u211	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. We move on to the vote, according to the decision already taken, to conclude the speeches after the appointment of the Members of the National Assembly is exhausted. Mr. Boychev was the last of them. We are going to vote on the proposals relating to § 28. The first of these is the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Please vote. Vote 164 MPs: 55 against 97 abstentions 12. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs in the unsupported part of the Commission, and it is for dropping out of this. 12, b. ............................................................................... 14 b. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Vote 149 MPs: 28 against 79, abstention 42. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the wording of § 28, which becomes § 32 in the version of the Commission. Vote 166 MPs: 113 against 37, abstention 16. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u212	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 29, which shall become § 33, in which the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 34, in which the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 31, which shall become § 35, in which the words The same law also adds............................................................................................... The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 36, in which the words The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 37, in which the The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 38, in which the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Are there any statements on the reported paragraphs? I won't. We are going to vote on the Commission's proposals for texts in paragraphs 29 to 34, reported by Mrs Stoyanova. Vote 156 MPs: 113 against 28, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, in order to advance the time and not to tear up the Report, we will stop here because the following texts require more time Before we close today's meeting, I will introduce you to parliamentary control reports for tomorrow: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer a question of the MP Alexander Nenkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer two questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Petar Vitanov and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer one question from the MPs Dilyan Dimitrov and Dora Yankova and one question from the National Representative Dora Yankova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer two questions from the MPs Mihail Hristov and Todor Bajchev and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov will answer five questions from the MPs Rumen Georgiev, Velislava Krasteva, Svetla Bachvarova; Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Stoilov, and Irena Atanasova; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer two questions from the MPs Hristo Prodanov and Rumen Gechev; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Culture Boyl Banov of a question by the MPs Krasen Krastev and Kalin Vassilev; - the Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov to a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Due to the absence of the MPs for respectable reasons, the answers to a question from the MPs Slavcho Velkov and Nikolay Tsonkov to the Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov and to a question from the National Representative Rumen Gechev to the Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov are postponed. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev and the Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova will not participate in the parliamentary control meeting due to the lack of the country. Due to a pre-planned international commitment to the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate. Due to the exhaustion of the agenda for today's parliamentary day, I am closing the session.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-01.u214	The next parliamentary meeting is tomorrow, 2 November 2018, at 9.00 p.m. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
