ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u1	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 106, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly propose that parliamentary control in today's plenary session begin after the completion of points 4 and 8 of the Work Programme. In the event that it occurs after 11.00, parliamentary control shall continue for three hours as provided in the Rules of Procedure. Please vote. Vote 136 MPs: 131 against 1, abstention 4. The motion is accepted. Laws entered on 20 November 2018 and their distribution: 1. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Management and Control in the Public Sector. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. 2. Draft amending and supplementing the Social Security Code. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Message: Deputy Minister of Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that in implementation of art. 65, para. 1 of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria has, by its order, authorised the deployment of troops from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria to participate in rotational training/study at the US Joint Force Training Centre in Hohenfells, Germany, for the period from 26 November 2018 to 14 December 2018. In accordance with the provisions of the Law, the competent state authorities have been notified. The notification was received on 22 November 2018, with entry No 803-09-67, and was made available to the Defence Committee. Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Please put to the vote the proposal to extend the deadline by seven days of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Atmospheric Air Cleanness Act, No 802-01-43, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 22 October 2018, which was adopted at the first vote in the Chamber on 16 November 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u3	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Ivelina Vassileva. Vote 166 MPs: 141, none, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we continue with the first item on the agenda for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR MOVEMENT IN THE ROADS. Report of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 854-01-37, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 802-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers; Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 854-01-83, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. A declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group will read Mr. Mareshki. You have the floor, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u4	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Yesterday was an interesting day. He was useful to me, too. Mr. Tasco Ermenkov inspired me to bury myself in the numbers and try to do some analysis, and so I buried myself. Now I'm going to introduce you to the interesting things I learned when I buried myself in them. Several times Mr. Ermenkov said: "President Radev, elected by two and a half million Bulgarian voters. I will start precisely from there: President Petar Stoyanov was also elected by two and a half million Bulgarian voters, but I do not see that making him as beloved to you as Mr. Radev. That's the least of it. I'll introduce you to more interesting numbers. Fifty-six percent of the Bulgarians or about four million Bulgarians do not want this is from the latest research, early elections. Now you, when you want early elections, go against these four million Bulgarians and expect to be spanked in some other places, not that clapping that was spoken of yesterday. I'll give you other numbers. According to the latest research GERB's result against the result of BSP is 6.55% higher. This is the last study by 6.55% higher than the result of BSP! [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm not saying I like it or not. I also want our result to be higher, only it does not mean that when sociology shows that our result is bad, we should take offense to the Bulgarian people and call it retarded. We must make daily efforts in order for the Bulgarian people to like our vision of Bulgaria.. the vision of each of us, of every political party and to present ourselves in this way, and not with constant screaming and undemocratic methods. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u5	Be quiet, Mr. Chenchev, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u6	President Radev, as well as you... Yesterday we witnessed a pointless conversation here, in which we had to save from two leva and a few pennies a year, that is, 18 cents a month for certain cars up to about 30 leva. Some said, "For some, it is BGN 30. Yeah, for the richer ones, it's going to be about 30 leva somewhere. I'll get you back at the cost of about $10 billion right away. lv. for arming. By dividing it by the population, it's about BGN 1500. per person or for an average family of three or four people between 4500 and 6000 BGN. from every Bulgarian citizen, from every Bulgarian family. We save two leva, we talk here loudly, we burn, we tear the shirts, ties and so on we impose on every Bulgarian citizen - a newly born, retired, working, unemployed of BGN 1500. We punish every Bulgarian family with this tax because it is a tax. Because this money did not come from somewhere, it was collected from the taxes of Bulgarian citizens. These are some of the numbers that show the incredible double standard we're trying to shine with and deceive our constituents. I'm glad Mr. Ermenkov inspired me to bury myself in numbers to see the truth. I hope with what I've told you, I've opened your eyes to inspire you. To work a little more seriously, more actively, more usefully and more effectively for the interests of Bulgarian citizens, who, as the research shows, are not for early elections and a new robbery, but 97% of them, i.e. about 7 million Bulgarians, do not want to spend money on unnecessary toys, even more if we take them out of their pocket. Now, if someone gives them to us from a country. This is now another topic, but collected from the taxes of the Bulgarians it is absolutely ineffective for us. Yesterday we only gave you a few tips on how new environmental vehicles can be effectively spent to help the socially weak, medicines. Today there was a survey in which 85 90% of Bulgarians want healthcare, they want social costs and no one wants weapons, no one wants war. Listen to what the Bulgarian people tell you. Work so that in the end you really don't get spanked not where you want! Thank you. [[(Applause by.. ……]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Mareshki. Dear Mr. Letifov, you have the floor to present the Report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Allow me first to make a procedure for admission in the Chamber on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Staff Regulations of Mr. Krasimir Tsipov Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Interior; Mr. Angel Popov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and Mr. Anton Antonov Director of National Government.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u9	Thank you. Procedure. You have the floor, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u10	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I propose, on behalf of the parliamentary group, a name-check of the presence in the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u11	Thank you. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u12	After the roll call check, Mr. Chairman, I suggest that you list all the MPs in this House and that this be the quorum for work in the National Assembly. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo!" by BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u13	There are rules! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u14	Procedure, Mr. Lazarov. [[Noise and lines.]] A counteroffer? [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u15	There's no proposal back! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u16	Look, Mr. Lazarov, there's no... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u17	Mr. Chairman, I will do the procedure in the manner in which it is conducted. I did not understand on what grounds you gave your colleague the opportunity to make this statement. If it's the way it's supposed to be...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u18	The same one they gave you!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u19	...I'll also make a statement. If it's an offer, there should be a reverse offer. Choose which of the two hypotheses to make my statement! I don't know on what grounds my colleague did, but you let him in eventually.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u20	I'm not counting because I'm at the end!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u21	Let's not get into dialogue! We heard Mr. Letifov's statement. There are rules in which it is clearly written, there is also a constitutional solution on the occasion of such charges, and there is a list of how the quorum is formed, so I ask you very much to follow the rules. It is sufficient that 121 MPs in the roll call check are present in order to consider that there is a quorum. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u22	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. After the roll call check, which is essentially proof of a quorum, I see no reason to take any count action. I will not even put the proposal to the vote, as it is not in line with what we are doing right now. I'm sorry! Moving on to a roll call check: Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - absent Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - absent Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - absent Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - absent Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - absent Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - absent Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - absent Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - here Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - absent Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - here Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - here Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - absent Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - absent Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibrayam Chakarov - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgeni Genchev Budinov - absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - here Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - here Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - absent Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - absent Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Peter Hristov Petrov - absent Plamen Dulchev Nunev - absent Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here So far, 141. Colleagues, we have a quorum. Let's move on. [[Relations from the MP Halil Letifov aside from the microphones.]] Next time we'll continue in reverse, Mr. Letifov. Colleagues, I am voting on the proposal made by the MP Halil Letifov for admission in the Chamber. 140 MPs voted: 126, against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Please invite those admitted to the courtroom. You have the floor for the Report, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 854-01-37, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs on 10 May 2018, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 802-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018, and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 854-01-83, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 14 November 2018. At a meeting of the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, held on 21 November 2018, a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act, No 854-01-37, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs on 10 May 2018, a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act, No 802-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018, and a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Road Traffic Act No 854-01-83, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 14 November 2018. [[The People's Representative Mustafa Karadaye enters.]] Hello, Mr. Chairman. [[Laughter, excitement.]] At the meeting attended: Mr. Angel Popov Deputy Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications; Commissioner Rosen Rappchev The bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 854-01-37, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs on 10 May 2018, was presented by Mr. Andon Donchev, who said that his acceptance would lead to: raising the collection of fines imposed by tickets, electronic tickets and criminal decrees; reducing the administrative burden on citizens and saving time for both citizens and control bodies, allowing for payment of fines on the ground. The Law also aims to reduce the likelihood that persons with foreign citizenship and driving motor vehicles with foreign registration will leave the country before paying the sanctions imposed on them on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. During the presentation of the bill Mr. Donchev stressed that under the current legislation of a driver who has not paid the fines imposed on him within the time limit and this was established when checking the road, his driving licence was withdrawn until the fines were paid in full. The proposed changes, according to importers, provide for the possibility for all vehicles of the Ministry of Interior control authorities to be connected to the Automated Information System (Administrative and Criminal Activity) to install a POS terminal device to collect on-site payment of fines. The bill also provides for an option to pay the fines, according to which the debtor can do so within two hours of the service of the act of compulsory administrative measure. The Commission received opinions from the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance on the draft in the Commission. In the course of the debates in support of the bill the MPs Pavel Hristov, Stanislav Ivanov and Radostin Tanev spoke. The representatives of the Ministry of Interior have expressed their opinion that they support the bill in principle and, at the same time, it is necessary to specify individual provisions from it. The bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 802-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018, was presented by Mrs. Vesela Nacheva. The reasons for the Bill indicate that its main objective is to alleviate administrative procedures and reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by removing the requirement to submit paper documents necessary for the issue of a registration certificate for road assistance open to public use. It was explained by the importers that the bill provides for the abolition of the requirement to provide a certificate of actual status, a copy of the court's registration decision under the Commercial Law or a registration document under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities and a declaration of the absence of an open bankruptcy procedure on request for the issue of a registration certificate for the implementation of road aid. The bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act No 854-01-83, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 14 November 2018, was presented by Mr. Ivanov. He stated that the legislative initiative relates to the adoption of measures on the introduction of the mixed charging system for the different categories of road vehicles to be passed on the paid road network on a time basis for passenger cars with a total technically permissible maximum mass of up to or equal to 3,5 tonnes and on a road distance basis for vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass of more than 3,5 tonnes. The aim of the proposed bill is to create an explicit legal framework for the obligations of drivers and owners of road vehicles in relation to the payment of road charges for the use of the paid road network, as well as the system of bodies exercising control over the performance of those obligations. Next, the legislative initiative is aimed at settling the consequences of non-compliance with these obligations. Mr. Ivanov noted that the introduction of such an opportunity for voluntary payment of the tolls due, even with delay, allows control to function faster and achieve its objectives without burdening too much the users of the paid road network. On the other hand, the closure of proceedings without the establishment of criminal decrees ensures that the judicial authorities will not be charged with a large number of administrative criminal cases in cases where there is in fact no dispute about the use of the paid road network and the lack of fulfillment of obligations in relation to its use. According to the importers, the bill also takes into account the existing problems in service of the acts of the Road Traffic Act establishing administrative violations, electronic tickets and criminal decrees. An obligation of the owner is envisaged to notify the driver when providing the road vehicle whether a payment fee has been paid or a contract has been concluded with a relevant service provider in accordance with the requirements of the Roads Act. Accordingly, if no action has been taken to pay the road toll prior to the granting of the road vehicle, the driver shall undertake to purchase a vintage or route card according to the category of the road vehicle. According to importers, the basis for the proposed amendments is the understanding that, unlike other road traffic rules, the obligation to pay the fee for the use of the paid road network can be controlled by the owner of the road vehicle and can be verified before the start of the journey. The infringement does not depend on the assessment of the particular road situation, but only on taking action according to the requirements of the Roads Act prior to the start of the journey. Amendments are also provided for in relation to the powers of the control bodies. All existing powers of the Ministry of Interior control services are reserved with regard to the obligation to pay an electronic bill. At the same time, it is proposed that the powers of the Executive Agency be dropped from the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications to monitor the payment of fees due under the Roads Act. With regard to the fact that the Road Infrastructure Agency will use mobile teams to exercise control over the obligation to pay the fees provided by the Roads Act, a special traffic regime and relevant powers to stop cars and carry out checks are provided for them. The powers of the control authorities with regard to the imposition of a forced administrative measure are also revised. The conditions for its imposition are aligned with the amended texts of the Roads Act. There is also the possibility that the person concerned by the forced administrative measure will release the road vehicle by paying the relevant fee provided by the Roads Act according to the type of vehicle. As additional measures to ensure the collection of the road toll, it is proposed that the road vehicle does not have any outstanding obligations to the Road Infrastructure Agency in order to allow an annual periodic technical service inspection. The Law also proposes amendments to the Road Transport Act, which provide for the repayment of all road toll obligations to be conditional on the issue and renewal of a licence for the operation of road transport. According to importers, this decision is justified by the understanding that it is precisely when carrying out the transport of passengers and freight that the road network is most burdened, so the fulfilment of the obligation to pay road charges is a criterion for the financial stability of the carrier and should be reflected in the requirements for authorisation. The proposed amendments to the Customs Act lay down the conditions and arrangements for the interaction between the customs authorities and the authorities of the Road Infrastructure Agency, for the identification, prevention and sanctioning of infringements and the collection of road charges. Attitudes on the bill took the MPs: Halil Letifov, Lalo Kirilov, Stanislav Ivanov and Alexander Pawnov. On the part of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works expressed their support for the Bill. It was noted that the proposed changes to the Road Traffic Act correspond entirely to the amendments adopted to the Roads Act concerning the measures adopted for the introduction of a mixed charging system for the different categories of road vehicles for crossing the paid road network. The representatives of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications and the Ministry of Interior said that they supported the bill, paying attention to the members of the Commission the need to provide for a delay in the connectivity of systems between different departments. Following the debates on drafts and opinions, the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall: - unanimously "with 17 votes for" he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Road Traffic Act, No 854-01-37, submitted by Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs on 10 May 2018; - unanimously "with 17 votes in favour," he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 802-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018; - with 14 votes for the road traffic, No 854-01-83, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 14 November 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. For the Report of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management Mr. Nenkov, please come in. You have the floor to present the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 854-01-83, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs At a regular meeting held on 22 November 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 854-01-83, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs on 14 November 2018. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Alexander Nenkov. The meeting was attended by representatives of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications. The proposed amendments to the Road Traffic Act aim to reflect the changes to the Roads Act and the introduced mixed charging system using the roads included in the paid road network. The amendments shall ensure compliance with the provisions of the Road Traffic Act with the intended new system of obligations of drivers and owners of road vehicles using such roads and shall allow the use of the possibility of the electronic charging system provided for by the Roads Act to prevent infringements in relation to the payment of road charges. The distribution of responsibilities between the driver and the owner of a road vehicle with a maximum permissible mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes shall be changed insofar as it is not always possible for the driver to determine whether the road charge has been paid as the wine stickers are dropped, the owner shall have corresponding obligations in this regard whenever he provides his road vehicle. One of the objectives of the Bill is for the control system to be fully targeted at collecting the tolls due without focusing on the criminal function of the control authorities. Therefore, it is envisaged that, at each stage of the controls carried out, the compensation fee payable under the Roads Act, which is the basis for exempting the person from administrative criminal liability, be paid. The introduction of such a possibility of voluntary payment of tolls due, even with delay, allows control to function faster and achieve its objectives without burdening too much the users of the paid road network. On the other hand, the closure of proceedings without the establishment of criminal decrees ensures that the judicial authorities will not be charged with a large number of administrative criminal cases in cases where there is in fact no dispute about the use of the paid road network and the lack of fulfillment of obligations in relation to its use. Amendments are also provided for in relation to the powers of the control bodies. All existing powers of the Ministry of Interior control services are reserved with regard to the obligation to pay an electronic bill after complying with the changes in the obligations of drivers and owners of road vehicles in relation to payment of charges for the use of the paid road network. At the same time, the powers of the Executive Agency of the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications to monitor the payment of fees due under the Roads Act are proposed to be dropped. The Road Infrastructure Agency will use mobile teams to exercise control over the obligation to pay the fees provided by the Roads Act. With regard to them, a special traffic regime and relevant powers to stop cars and carry out checks are provided. For cases where the road vehicle is not stopped for verification, an additional possibility of exercising control must be provided for, and for this purpose the control powers of the Road Infrastructure Agency shall be provided for, the Office which will maintain and have the easiest access to the electronic system. During the discussion, the MPs and the representatives of the executives supported the need to adopt the proposed changes, proposing to refine the texts between first and second readings. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 11 votes,............................................................................................. and 6 votes................................................................................................................................................ Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u26	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. For the opinion of an importer.. Welcome, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u27	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, allow me to present the main amendments to the Road Traffic Act. The proposed draft law provides for the following amendments to the driver's obligations, respectively, in the rules on the exercise of control over them. The driver's obligation to pay tolls is specified and the use is complicated, as the easy establishment of the fees is dropped, there is no blame sticker that is glued to the front glass and in some cases the payment will be made after the journey is completed. It is envisaged that no technical condition examination of a road vehicle for which there are unpaid road charges or the owner of which has such outstanding obligations is allowed. The control powers of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Executive Agency of Automobile Administration are specified in relation to the Road Traffic Act, which concerns the toll system. Additional control powers are provided for the authorities of the Customs Agency who will have to ensure that road vehicles for which the relevant fee is not paid will not be able to leave the Republic of Bulgaria. Control powers have been set out for the authorities of the Road Infrastructure Agency to enable them to carry out both road control and by subsequent examination of the recordings of the electronic tolling system. The provision of regulations governing the access of the authorities of the Ministry of Interior and the Customs Agency is envisaged to the electronic system for collecting tolls. The possibility of preventing traffic on the paid road network of road vehicles for which no road toll has been paid by imposing a forced administrative measure is specified. The administrative criminal provisions of the Law have been changed by specifying the infringements in relation to the use of the road network without a purchase of a bill, as well as by providing for infringements in relation to the toll where no criminal action has been taken to establish its size and where those obligations have been met, but the toll has not been paid. Those provisions will apply after 16 August 2019 when the fee is introduced and, otherwise, from 1 January 2019, electronic wineries shall be introduced. Something extremely important I would like to say in terms of electronic wine. The electronic tart will be available after 17 December 2018, but wish. This is extremely important. If the leader wishes to make a payment, he can. If he does not want, he may continue to drive with the wine that should remain glued to the front glass. Rules are provided for how the place of conduct of the infringement is to be determined. The rules of the administration are specified, as the possibility of imposing sanctions in a number of cases will depend on whether the penalties envisaged will also be imposed on legal persons. In many cases, only its owner can be identified for the road vehicle in which the infringement was committed. A special procedure has been established to impose administrative penalties, which takes into account the specificities of the electronic tolling system and provides for the possibility of granting discharge upon voluntary payment of a compensation fee. The evidence of the electronic charging system recordings, additional rules for the service of documents in the framework of administrative criminal proceedings are laid down, which will facilitate the course of procedures in respect of all proceedings under the Road Traffic Act, not only with regard to the intruder related to road charges. Those rules also allow the electronic service of documents, if those documents comply with the requirement of the electronic document, providing for regular service, even if a printed copy of the electronic document signed with a qualified electronic signature has been served, certifying the creation of the electronic document intended for storage in the electronic system and its printing for service. For electronic documents, production is envisaged for the issue of electronic slips, which will be possible to be applied when the functionality of the electronic system is developed. This thing is happening right now. The system is being tested right now. It has been developed, tested and when the tests are completed after 16 August 2019, the system will be able to start working. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. For another opinion of the importer Mr. Donchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u29	Honourable Mr. Chairman, honourable Members. I will present our opinion on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 854-01-37, from 10 May 2018. Importer of the bill is Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs. The main objectives of the Bill are to increase the collection of fines on tickets, electronic slips and penal decrees imposed on the basis of the bodies authorised to carry out controls, acts establishing administrative infringements, also to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and to save time on them and on the control body, allowing for payment of fines on the ground. One of the objectives of the Bill is to reduce the likelihood that persons with foreign citizenship, driving motor vehicles with foreign registration, will leave the country before they have paid the sanctions imposed on them on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. In the current legislation of a driver who has not paid the fines imposed on him within the time limit and this has been established in the event of a road inspection, the driving licence shall be revoked until the fines have been paid in full. However, the minimum period within which this can happen is after the end of the replacement of the control bodies and at the relevant headquarters of the regional road police unit. In time, this may be up to 12 hours. The proposed changes provide for the possibility of all vehicles of the control bodies of the Ministry of Interior, which have links to the automated information system A second version of the payment of fines is also envisaged according to which the taxable person may do so within a few hours of the service of the act of compulsory administrative measure withdrawing a driving licence. The additions to the Road Traffic Act will not only increase the effectiveness of collecting the fines, but will also save drivers the inconvenience of being deprived for a longer period of time from the ability to drive the car.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u30	Thank you, dear Mr. Donchev. Colleagues, there is another Report from the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. You have the floor, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u31	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 802-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers At a regular meeting held on 14 June 2018, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management discussed a bill amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 802-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by engineer Svetoslav Glossov a member of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency. The proposed amendments and additions are in accordance with the measures provided for in this section. Second, the Council of Ministers Decision No 496 of 2017, implementing Decision No 338 of the Council of Ministers of 2017, adopting measures to reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses by removing the requirement to submit certain official paper-based certification documents. The Law provides for the abolition of the requirement to provide a certificate of current status, a copy of the judgment for registration under the Commercial Law or a document for registration under the Law on Non-Profit Legal Entities and a declaration of the absence of an open insolvency procedure on request for the issue of a certificate of registration in the register of road aid persons. There are no provisions in force in the Road Traffic Act which regulate the order and manner of delivery of the documents referred to in service, and therefore an amendment to the provision of art. 148c of the Law. This will help stakeholders to save time and resources when initiating the request for a certificate of entry in the register of road users open to public use. The main objective of the Bill is to facilitate administrative procedures and reduce the administrative burden by reducing the number of paper documents that the interested parties present in the procedure for issuing a certificate of entry in the register of road aid holders. During the discussion the MPs supported the need to adopt the proposed changes. On the basis of the discussion and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government, with 19 votes for the Council of Ministers, without abstention and abstention, proposed to the National Assembly a bill for amendment and supplement of the Road Traffic Act, No 802 01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers, to be adopted in the first vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. The debates are open. You have the floor to speak. You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'll start by reminding you that we're probably looking at the 82nd, 83rd and 84th amendment of the Road Traffic Act. Apparently the Black Friday is also coming to the Bulgarian Parliament, where Bulgarian citizens, looking at one law, will receive three new amendments to the Law on Traffic on the Roads. But in the end, the promise of a new Road Traffic Act at the end of last year - September, at the end of last year - November, for this year - September, for this year - November - will not happen. Unfortunately, the price for all this is paid by the Bulgarian citizens as legislation and as sustainability of the legislative process and as the norms we offer them. I will start backwards with the big law proposed by my fellow MPs. Just two months or a month and a half ago, we adopted amendments to the Roads Act, and today, with this Law in the Transitional and Final Rules, we are changing that law that we adopted a month and a half ago. I mean, I don't envy the Bulgarian consumers, the Bulgarian carriers, the Bulgarian citizens who have to comply with this law. How will they be able to navigate, what exactly should they do, exactly what fees should they pay, whether they should convert their paper tart to electronic, whether it is optional or not, and what will happen if it is optional, where should they do it? Because, colleagues, I understand your goal, and I will state it once again: tol the system is the fairest way to pay road taxes. [[Applause from GERB.]] So there's no question about it, and we've never been against this thing. However, honourable Members, this thing is being done in dialogue with citizens, this thing is being done by the administration by the Council of Ministers. In the Road Traffic Act, the administration is somehow missing. They are witnesses at the moment. The things you're proposing are not involved in this development. I don't know, before Minister Nankov, now Minister Avramova, do they support? Does the Prime Minister support, does he not support? When will it be introduced? There are still questions we don't have an answer to. What will be the range of the toll system. 50%, 60 or 80, for as long as it is designed? Nobody knows! What are the prices? Transporters, industry, bus carriers make their business plans for next year. Nobody told them how much they'd have to pay. Shouldn't they be betting on their prices? Public contracts for delivery of freight for passenger transport are under way. How much will the tickets of Bulgarian citizens increase? No one is talking about this, and you have been given the heavy task somehow technically, by the way, here in Parliament, Friday morning, on a black Friday to pass some amendments to legalize actions in some way. We are talking so far that there should be a single road control body, because on the road now controls the DMV, currently controls the Automobile Administration, and currently controls the Ministry of Regional Development through the Road Infrastructure Agency. All people and all carriers appreciate this as a problem that three bodies exercise control. You're now putting in a fourth organ. So instead of going in the direction of an authority to exercise traffic control, we put a fourth body with 600 new people. At one point you were talking about a state-owned enterprise that would carry out this activity. I'm talking about the system, the collection and the payment. We now have a management department at the Ministry of Regional Development, at the API. Where is the state enterprise? How did we make out of three organs four? The DMV, or the Ministry of Interior, don't want to do this service because why? Tell me! Do the ministers talk to each other? Isn't that the policy of the entire government.. introducing this toll system, or is it the policy of 10.. 15 MPs? Again, it's not your fault. You're trying to pull out the chestnuts, so to speak, but where is the state? You won't be able to handle it yourself, because here, too, reading the changes, reading the texts, there's a lot of ambiguities. I'm sure only between first and second reading half of them will drop out and you will suggest others. We ourselves will propose new texts, but this is not the way, this is not the approach. We confuse Bulgarian citizens with this type of bill.. 660 new people. At the same time in the analysis of the end of the Law on Revenues and Benefits you say: there is no additional burden, there is no additional administrative capacity that will be committed. Well, how can there not be? Isn't 600 people an additional administrative capacity? We're talking about an electronic system that has been paid over 200 million. lv. It should be electronic and optimize control, payment everything. After all, it optimizes it so that there will be 150 patrols with 600 people on the road that they need to control. Is this the new technology, is this just the way to control it? So has anyone thought at all since the announcement of the order then what was the legislation, what should be changed, the winning of the order, the realization of the order and ultimately what the Bulgarian citizens will receive from January 1st, going out on the road? You are talking about the responsibilities between a car owner and a driver, and there are so blurry he had to notify. How do you notify him in writing, unwritten? At the same time, you'll stop moving if he hasn't paid. You give the Director of the API the opportunity to issue criminal warrants for violations, collect fines that they have not imposed on them, and finally no longer will a person be able to pass a control technical examination if he has obligations to the API. Yeah, that's nice. You want to increase the collection rate, don't you? However, by offering this thing, have you looked at the other parts of the Road Traffic Act, where it says that a car that has not passed a technical examination is subject to BGN 20. Fine, and nothing else? That is, they will stop going to an annual technical examination, because yesterday you raised their taxes for which they will not be able to pass again, today you put them in charge of the reviews to collect API's fees. Drivers will stop going for a check-up because it will be much easier for them to be fined 10 times 20 levs. on the road rather than go to work... That's why I'm saying I don't call them to do this. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] But that comes out in the lyrics, Mr. Nenkov, do you understand? And it is nice to warn both you and the people of the administration and the Bulgarian citizens. Make it so that when you haven't passed the technical examination, you have a fine, stop you from moving. Now, if you don't have the liability, they automatically deregistered, if you didn't go to the review, nothing. 20 BGN, that's what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u34	Bring in an offer to make more.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u35	Okay, we'll bring it in, but you're on this task now. All that remains is for us to come up with a proposal and then the chaos will become complete. Colleagues, my request is as much as possible, of course, as the time limits are approaching "January 1st," if necessary, extend the time limits as much as possible, but so as not to stop the introduction from January 1st. Make one discussion among the industry and among the Bulgarian citizens, if necessary, in the committees once again to clear things up. Once again, we support the introduction of the toll system, but we do not support the approaches in which you do so. In the other two bills of colleagues from Volja and the first time this proposal was submitted, we supported it. However, I am surprised now why GERB supports it? Then GERB did not support it with clear arguments. Now, what happened? Did yesterday's vote on the veto, do you buy ten or twelve votes for the upcoming budget support with the support of this bill? We will support our colleagues then and now. The bill of the Council of Ministers will not be supported, I say again, not because it is not correct, but because it is the 85th Amendment to the Law on Road Traffic, tabled by the Council of Ministers, the authority that must make the new Law on Road Traffic and present it to us here. We're waiting for him, ministers, deputy ministers, governors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u36	Thank you. Second line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u37	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilenski, first of all, the three laws to be tabled by the Council of Ministers will be tabled by the end of the year, as public discussions are underway which, I suppose, have already been completed and the laws are currently being processed. They will be submitted by the Council of Ministers to the National Assembly by the end of the year. With regard to your first question on this bill, however, why is a new body being created to control the roads? Mr. Svilenski, if you had read the Bill carefully, you would see that a new body is being created, indeed, but it takes part of the powers of the Executive Agency, and it will no longer be able to control the road whether the car has a bumper sticker or not. This will be done by the National Tol Government. Regarding the second question whether and what was paid by Bulgarian citizens, nothing has been paid so far, Mr. Svilenski. In three years, 50 million of this system will be paid for its construction, so at the moment nothing has been paid. Again, you are misleading Bulgarian citizens. What will Bulgarian citizens pay after 1 January? They're gonna pay the same money they've paid so far, because we're talking about the electronic bill here. For her the prices will be the same as the current wine, Mr. Svilensky, and there is no difference here. There are no changes for cars up to 3.5 tons. About the 20 leva you said you had an annual technical examination or not. See, before deciding to pass with the road vehicle on an annual technical examination, it can be detected on the road and pay 300 BGN if there are outstanding obligations to the state regarding the road charges, and this is only for up to 3.5 tonnes. 1,800 leva. is for a driver who hasn't exercised control and hasn't paid for tol management, we're talking over 3.5 tons, or 3,000 levs. is for the owner of such a car, so things are very different. With regard to the bill which Mr. Svilenski mentioned, the Law of Mrs. Boryana Georgieva. Look, fellow Members, when colleagues from the Voljjas introduced this bill, we started changes. These changes ensured, first of all, that Bulgarian citizens will be able to pay in the district governments, at the post offices, that was the first step.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u38	Finish now, Mr. Ivanov, you're over three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u39	Now we build on this step by giving them the right to pay at post terminals and in cars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u40	Second line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u41	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Secretary! Dear colleague Svilenski, from your speech I can identify a single problem. This may be the most important thing. Either way, the matter we are discussing today is important given the deadlines that are ahead and given the system that needs to be implemented. This is necessary, so I cannot report this as a serious problem. We have to do it, and we do it. As for the structure of the directorate, which will deal with the management of the toll system. I believe that the texts are sufficiently clean.. no duplication of functions between the different control bodies. I believe that the interconnections described in the Law, the interfaces that will work in the next few weeks and months between the different institutions, will also ensure good interaction between the different institutions on the road. As far as publicity goes. I don't think it's a new topic, I don't think it's relevant from the moment we introduced the Law. I think there's been enough serious discussion throughout the calendar year, enough information being exported, enough clarity being given how, who, why and what analysis it does with regard to the toll system. Regarding the range, when will it become clear how much of the road network, which roads will be within the range of the toll system? This is a process that will be finalised in parallel with the implementation, so that by August, when this thing is due to start working, it will be ready. With regard to the electronic winery, there is no difference in scope, there is no difference in prices, and I do not think there are any significant problems. Much of the other aspects that you pointed out in your speech are rather technical details that could be cleared between first and second readings. Indeed, there are some small things that need to be improved. We have specified them with the experts of the ministries and with the Road Infrastructure Agency and so between first and second readings we have enough opportunities to remove these, to call them small technical problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u42	Thank you, Mr. Christov. Mr. Tanev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u43	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilenski, first of all, I would like to thank you for really supporting, I would say, this good initiative, which the state must necessarily implement to improve the state of the roads in Bulgaria. I will answer a few questions and hope between first and second reading that you will still be constructive and that we will make proposals that will really help better realization. Regarding when will the prices of the toll system be clear and how should they be read by carriers? The World Bank is committed that by the end of the year it will come up with an analysis of what prices should be. We hope that they will be correct enough for carriers to set their prices at the end of the year. We know that the Tol system will enter from August, so carriers will have a long enough period of time to decide whether and how to change their prices. It is important to know that the conversion of the tart that exists at the moment is not mandatory. The people who stay with the wineries until the acceptance of the electronic wine will not be fined, the price of the wine is the same. Once again, I would like to ask you between first and second reading to make such a good debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u44	Thank you, dear Mr. Tanev. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! There was no disagreement in the lines with what I said. Mr. Ivanov tried to tell me that the Automobile Administration was redirected, i.e. downloaded activities that were redirected to the national administration, only that the Automobile Administration would continue to check on the road, right, but only other things. I mean, one driver, one carrier, one vehicle can be stopped by at least four types of control bodies, right, at least four types of...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u46	With the new Law, it won't be like this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u47	No, don't talk about the new law anymore! That's it! We're done! Black Friday's over. Three repairs. The new law?! Don't talk. That is, we say to Bulgarian citizens: from January 1st expect another control body on the road. That's it. To my question, what are the charges for the range, there is no answer. That's the question I've been asking for at least a year. I don't know. Does the World Bank rule Bulgaria? Tell me, how much do you want it to be? What's yours? Let the World Bank do its analysis. The price, however, is a political solution. The World Bank can say two leva a kilometer, but the political decision to take it here and say it's going to be twenty pennies or ten pennies? Nobody's talking about it. When is this debate going to happen? What are we waiting for?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u48	We don't have an exit base.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u49	Where's your exit base, Mr. Ivanov? I'm not going into a debate. So the political decision must be taken here, the Council of Ministers, the National Assembly. They will tell their expert analysis how much it should be. However, November 30th is approaching, and January 1st is coming into force. We're talking again, people are making plans for next year, they're making plans for a year, two, three, how to calculate prices? But that's another question. Colleagues, we will not support the Law at first reading. Let me get this straight. We'll make our proposals. I repeat and repeat, for the third time, that we are not against this system, but we are against the way you are trying to impose it in Bulgaria, without clear political responsibility, without clear political commitments. The government is gone, the Prime Minister is not in this topic, the ministers are not in this topic. Only ten MPs, jointly from two committees, are trying and doing so as far as they can, through the parliamentary regulations to submit bills. I beg of you in the future such important things let the Council of Ministers bring them in to see... I have a feeling the government is against this system, and it doesn't want this thing to be watched. It's a good thing you're here to bring them in in the last few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. You have the floor to speak, dear Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u51	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! We will support all three bills, although I will express similar considerations, which Mr. Svilenski said so far, we have a piece of work, again we are making three amendments to the Law on Road Traffic in conditions where we are waiting for new laws on road traffic, again a missed activity or rather a miss of the Council of Ministers, and the ministries are being decided by calling 112 people's representative, who extinguishes fires in this case the honourable Mr. Ivanov, and inserts something under the fast procedure, because something has been missed, something has not been seen and we have to save him. Of course, what is offered makes sense, there is a resonant, and we will support it. On the other hand, the very philosophy of decision-making is somewhat mistaken, in my opinion. Road traffic law has a major activity to regulate traffic and save lives, not to have traumatism on the road. It turns out, however, that a bigger problem for the state and for the MPs is not to have paid your wine fee than to have committed a violation of the road. At least by looking at the sanctions that are imposed, it turns out that a greater crime is not to pay the penalty than to violate the Road Traffic Act and be dangerous to other road users. We hope that this philosophy will indeed be arranged in the new laws. We expected the new laws to reduce the administrative burden. Alas, that will not happen, although the Road Aid Act foresees that. With this idea we will support it, but it should be noted that one or two documents are dropped from there. The whole remaining set of documents to register road assistance and to perform this service is paperwork, huge bureaucracy, and this is a problem in general. This activity must be regulated and not just her. If we are talking about electronic governance, we should bear in mind that with these documents, with this regime of registration we burden both Bulgarian business and all Bulgarian citizens. The bill of colleagues from Volja. The first time we did not support it. There was no readiness at the time. The road police didn't have the attitude to impose an administrative penal measure to withdraw a law enforcement certificate if you didn't pay your fines. Now that's a fact. I hope that we will support him with the idea that this will work, although the Ministry of Interior has acknowledged that they are not ready, that these accounts cannot unite them, and that will take time. Perhaps there will be proposals between the two readings, and there will also be a period within which to enter as an activity that will be much greater than I expected to do so. And here's the question, I'll give an example: we're stopping a driver who has insurance. He's being checked by the DMV and told he doesn't have insurance. You take out the insurance, the sticker. In their system, however, it does not come out. This is an excuse for the police to impose a penalty on this leader because in their system it doesn't come out. When will we actually ensure that this system works, that it will be up-to-date, and that it has already become clear between all control bodies that there are four, there will be no loss of information. It will be like this: you have an electronic screw, but it doesn't come out in the control system. You are being forced into administrative measures and then you go to explain yourself to the institutions. Perhaps we should first ensure exactly this security of information and of the exchange that there is and then impose the relevant restrictive measures. I repeat: the approach to making a piece, to import at the last moment by MPs, to lack the responsibility of the institutions, is vicious. It is done in a piece, we do not see the philosophy of the changes that are being made and this makes it difficult for the Bulgarian citizens and the control bodies, dear Mr. Ivanov. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Of course, I will try to preserve the good spirit in which today's debate on such a significant bill, which is part of a package of bills that we have adopted in recent weeks. In fact, today's Bill regulates the control and sanctioning of faulty drivers precisely in order to introduce the mixed electronic charging system for LCVs, as well as those over 3.5 tonnes. With a sense of humor, I congratulate my BSP colleagues for pulling water out of nine wells to say how much we do not have a systematic approach was not well-designed enough. I will continue from here on in my speech in this regard. Guys, there's really no question about it. We are introducing something that is new, modern, to a large extent there is no such system anywhere in Europe. We have taken a long time to introduce the charge in this way: the most heavy and the most useful road network to pay the most. We have delayed, but on the other hand, we also have our positive because we have tried to implement the best practices in the more developed countries. The very fact that we will not use barriers as it is in other countries, but we will use an electronic system with declared data, and everything will go by electronic means, says that Bulgaria may find itself with an extremely modern system. However, the fact is that because this is something unknown and new, and as much as we try to predict every situation, with all our desire, with all the efforts of the institutions, the parliament, there are probably also its gaps. This can't be an obstacle, or it can't stop us from going in that direction. There is no way, of course, until this system enters into force as there will be a transition period for cars, which also next year, until their current billing is over, will use the road network with the old paper stickers of cars. There will be such a transition period. Naturally, there is a price discussion ahead. Mr. Svilensky is wrong here because he said the prices were gone. They're gone, there's no way they're in the law. What I know from my colleagues as information [[BSP's line for Bulgaria]] On the contrary, the month of December will come as a public discussion. Since carriers will mainly be affected, a composite mechanism will also have to be sought as far as possible, as far as European legislation allows, prices to be consistent with market logic. I would like to state most strongly about passenger cars, about the mass user of this Republican road network. Nothing will change for them, on the contrary it will be easier. There will be no more paper media, no need to stick anything on your glass. Everything will be done electronically. The Law and the Law on Roads and with the introduction of sanctions is very clearly defined how and how you can do this. The only thing you need to do is to open a tablet, a phone and save your registration number, car data, category, and pay your electronic bill. There's no need for anyone to stop you to determine whether you have or not. You will be stopped only if the system reports that you have not paid this electronic bill. We must not frighten people again with the condition that naturally something as complex as building purely infrastructure, legislative, administrative, new 620 people who need to be trained in the rules in the way of sanctioning citizens, for those who are infallible, will certainly raise naturally and other issues that will need to be ironed out in time. If we really care about having better and safer roads, we have no reason not to support today the Bill, because it is part of this Colleagues, there's plenty of time for heavy goods cars. You know that the introduction of the Tol system will take effect from August 16th. Once again, there is a public discussion on the prices that they will have to pay. At this point, I don't see any problem that we can define. I call on you, if we are constructive and you say that you are for the introduction of this system, we have plenty of time. We have also spoken with colleagues about the week-long period in which proposals will have to be made between the first and second votes. It is good for each of us to think, to review the texts again, to make appropriate changes if we think that they should be made. We are happy on behalf of GERB, I suppose and the majority, will comply with these proposals that are constructive. Last, because this is very important and I will use the National Assembly stands to tell citizens the following thing: for next year, no increase in wine fees is envisaged. Since I have been corrected not to use the word "convert', I will use another word "depreciate" their paper bottles in electronic, is desirable, but it would be good and useful for them, as it will not be necessary and the system will not take into account that they have not paid their bill if they do so voluntarily. Let us take advantage of the deadline given by law, namely from December 17th this thing will be possible for everyone to do so. Thank you for your attention and I hope for your constructiveness.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. You said a line, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I will also keep the good tone of the debate and congratulate you on the fact that indeed one of the government has finally thought that every electronic system in the country needs the relevant legislative framework. We are witnessing how n-numbers of electronic systems have been made and created in the years as part of our country's electronic governance, but, unfortunately, they hang in the air both legislatively and legally simply are not regulated. I congratulate you on having thought of the need for such an approach. We are not some software specialist but we are members of a legislative body and the legislative process has its logic and consistency. It is good, when a proposal is made, to discuss it at the relevant levels, to make an adequate impact assessment and, firstly, to put the Law and then to build the system. At the moment we have a contract to build the tol system and now we are starting to adjust the legislation on this already awarded order. This is a deeply mistaken approach and it gives birth to many problems then in the future. Here is a clear example: you just answered my colleague Svilenski's question that there is no answer to the question what will be the toll for the respective types of vehicles over three and a half tons. However, it is quite clear in the Bill you are proposing what the fine will be for the non-payment of this fee. This is extremely illogical for me. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let us observe the legislative order and let us, when we are building systems that are part of electronic governance, regulate them legally then and where that is the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u56	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Second line? Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Nenkov, I've been listening carefully. The National Assembly has its role and it must be small, of course, but we are under the impression that somehow we will only give a push and open a wide door in the field and from there everyone will pass through it. We have also led this debate with the previous Minister of Regional Development Mr. Nankov, and we have tried to understand from him what will be the policy regarding the formation of tol fees. It's clear to the winery. You have explained to us, we make it easier for the citizens to argue on this subject. I would also like it, in most European countries it is so.. you buy an electronic wine, put it in your glove box and continue. You don't stick anything, you get cameras and so on. What do we do with truck charges? How do we determine the price? Where is the National Assembly in this entire process? Where is the National Assembly? You are now opening the door and from there where are we the MPs? That's the main question. We are concerned and then more Minister Nankov could not answer: how will the National Assembly participate in this process? We have also proposed that we extend his hand to the MPs to participate in the process, for the Transport Commission to participate in the process of setting the prices that cars will pay. In the end, it is not clear and who will bear the burden of some high road charges for heavy goods vehicles, whether the end-user or the carrier companies? How will it affect these people's salaries? I advise you between first and second readings to find a compromise in which the National Assembly, the MPs to participate in this process [[the President signals that time has run out]] , to have complete transparency under the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Third line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Nenkov, I agree with your statement for the most part. We are not criticising just because we need BSP to criticize something, but we are criticising you purely well-meaning. When the idea of the introduction of the tol system was born, and therefore I say that the path was wrong, the approach was wrong. Then it had to become clear that the system would be introduced, to change the laws, to determine the scope, to set the prices as far as possible. The amount of the tariff depends on the scope. Isn't that clear to everyone? Let's see how much money will be collected from vintage, how much of the toll. That's not what happened. What happened? The government announced an order two years ago, it appealed a year ago, procedures, going back, going back and forth, setting a contractor. Meanwhile, parliament, the government doesn't know what's going on, somewhere between the KPC, the court is doing this... It's a set artist, it's built, it's done, we still don't know anything here. Now a month before this thing starts, we start:..now let's give....no laws, no information, no coverage, no tariffs are known and that is why colleagues are asking these questions. Not just them, but the Bulgarian citizens also put them there. If it's up to two or three colleagues who didn't understand the fees, that's not a problem. The problem is that Bulgarian citizens do not know what to do with their paper tart on 17 December, on 1 January what to do with the electronic. Where do they go to buy it? What checkpoints? Where? Is there any advertising campaign going on this thing? Ask your family, do they know where to buy the electronic wine next week? Even now we're changing the law, expanding the checkpoints, but no one's saying that. [[The President signals that time has expired.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u60	Isn't that why we're taking the law to tell them next week?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u61	The same will happen with freight in just a few months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u62	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Nenkov, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u63	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I'm going to combine roughly the answer to the three lines. I will start from there, the parliament has no way of deciding how much a tariff should be. You know very well, fellow Members, that a fee should be cost-oriented. Imagine how in Parliament we'll argue about something like this, and you'll say, how, here, we'll load up the business, the citizens... Yesterday you remember the debate on the president's veto. Imagine if we started going in this plane. I think it is not the National Assembly's job, much less the lack of enough information to make such a decision. I agree with you here that the MPs can actively participate in this process. I just said: in December, price decisions are to be announced. As far as I know the World Bank, the consultant who consulted the Ministry of Regional Development has presented nine options, of which three options will most likely be subject to public discussion literally in December. It's about tolling in six or seven months. For cars I told you before: there will be no increase in the price for next year and will be able to buy it or electronically from the phone, from the tablet, from a gas station if you want. Yes, I agree that perhaps I should also call on my colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency to do a mass campaign in this direction. There is nothing wrong with it, citizens should be informed, but I do not think that Parliament is the institution that has to decide what to charge one or another. I just want something very important to go back to that topic. You know very well that, under European regulation, we cannot charge in any different way either our carriers or foreign nationals, I mean transit traffic. The costs of crossing the road network, as well as its scope, must be the same for everyone, and it must also be consistent with the market principle so that it is not very high at the same time and not so low in order not to be at a minus exactly before transit traffic starts looking for cheaper options for crossing our road network. I'll finish with one sentence. Colleagues, we have a really very strategic reform in charging the road network, with a clear mind, and I have just said that it will certainly have its questions. I believe that at least one year should go from the start to all the transition from paper to electronic wineries, the introduction of the toll system, the equipment of road vehicles with more than 3.5 tons, onboard devices, price solutions. We have a lot of work ahead of us and I think it will ultimately be useful for citizens and the real effect will be seen in a few years.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Nenkov. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 854-01-37, submitted by the National Representative Boriana Georgieva and a group of MPs, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 802-01-19, submitted by the Council of Ministers and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 854-01-83, submitted by Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. [[Noise and lines.]] Colleagues, I've read what we're going to vote on, and now I'm going to put them to the vote separately. Please vote on the first Draft Law submitted by the National Representative Boryana Georgieva and a group of MPs. They voted 143 MPs: 143, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted. [[Applause from GERB.]] I put to the vote the next Bill, No 802-01-19, tabled by the Council of Ministers. They voted 141 MPs: 109, none, abstention 32. The motion is accepted. I am now voting on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act, No 854-01-83, tabled by MP Stanislav Ivanov and a group of MPs. They voted 142 MPs: 109, against 15, abstention 18. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u65	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we move to the next point of the Programme: LAW FOR THE RATIFICING OF THE AQUALISED GENERAL AGREEMENT TO ESTABLISH THE MANAGEMENT AND COUNTERPARTY WITH CONDITIONS FOR THE TURKEY BEAUTIFULS IN TURKEY FOR THE EUROPEAN UNION AND THE EUROPEAN COMMISSION AND THE MODEL OF THE FINANCIAL ADVISION CERTIFICATE. We'll listen to the committee reports. Report of the Committee on Foreign Policy. Here you are, Admiral Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u66	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Let me, first of all, do the clearance procedure in the hall of Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Yuri Sherk.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u67	We are now going to vote on the procedural proposal for admission in this Chamber. They voted 93 MPs: 91, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the Deputy Minister to the Chamber. We're listening to the report, Mr. Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u68	Colleagues, ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the updated general agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for Turkey's Refugee Mechanism between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model for a financial contribution certificate, No 802-02-26, of 6 November 2018, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2018. At its regular meeting held on 14 November 2018, the Foreign Policy Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the updated common agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for Turkey's Refugee Mechanism between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model certificate of financial contribution submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2018. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Yuri Sherk "Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs." The General Agreement establishing a framework for the management and conditions of the Turkey Mechanism for the benefit of refugees and the certificate of the contribution of the Republic of Bulgaria with the attached payment schedule was ratified by the 43rd National Assembly as the Law on ratification was promulgated in the State Gazette on 12 April 2016. The Refugee Mechanism in Turkey was established by Decision of the European Commission C (2015) 9500 adopted on 24 November 2015. The funds under this mechanism are intended for emergency humanitarian aid, education, health services, etc. The first tranche of this EUR 3 billion facility includes EUR 1 billion from the European Union budget and the remaining EUR 2 billion from the member states. As a result, around 1.2 million were successfully supported. refugees from the most vulnerable groups, and educational materials are also provided for 500,000 students from the refugees' families and are supported with basic medical assistance 764 000 refugees. The updated general agreement tabled for ratification continues the European Union's policy on humanitarian support for refugees in Turkey, which is currently hosting the largest number of refugees and migrants from Syria and Iraq. At a meeting of the Council of the European Union of 28 and 29 June 2018, an Agreement was reached to ensure the financing of a second tranche of the Turkey Refugee Mechanism of 3 billion euros, with 2 billion euros coming from the European Union budget and 1 billion euros coming from the Member States and their contributions being calculated on the basis of the country's gross national income share in the total gross income for the European Union. The decision on additional funding to ensure continuity of the projects under the Mechanism was adopted on 24 July 2018 and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. According to this calculation Bulgaria's share is 3 198 581 euros or 6 255 880,68 BGN. It has to be paid according to the Commission's proposed schedule in each third and fourth quarter of the years 2019 - 2023. The payment schedule will start from the third quarter of 2019 and the amounts for the years are respectively: for 2019. EUR 722 240 for 2020 EUR 938 624 for 2021 EUR 557 194 for 2022 EUR 548 716 for 2023 "431 808 euros'. The funding for Bulgaria will be implemented from the central budget through the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the part of the budget for financing bilateral cooperation and humanitarian aid under art. 24a by Decree No 234 of the Council of Ministers of 2011. The instrument will be managed by the Directorate-General for Neighbourhood and Enlargement Negotiations of the European Commission. Point 34 of the General Agreement provides for, as an applicable right to its application, European Union law and for the questions not governed by that right to apply subsidiary Belgian law. Under Paragraph 36 of that Agreement, the disputes relating to it concern the General Court of the European Union, acting as an arbitration tribunal, pursuant to art. 272 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The debate was attended by MPs Plamen Manushev, Valeri Zablyanov, Ivo Hristov, Krasimir Bogdanov and Julian Angelov. Mr. Manushev supported the ratification of the updated general agreement, pointing out that despite criticism of it after receiving the first tranche of Turkey, the refugee pressure towards the Bulgarian border has decreased significantly. He referred to Turkey's opposition to allow monitoring of the funds spent as a disadvantage of the Agreement. People's representative Valeri Zablyanov pointed out that the MPs of BSP had voted against it in the ratification of the original agreement. The position of the Socialists on the updated general agreement remains with many questions, including the lack of monitoring of the EU funds spent on Turkey, which is why the MPs from their parliamentary group will vote abstention. MPs Krasimir Bogdanov and Julian Angelov said they were against the Agreement, which is their consistent position. Following the debates held, the Commission held a vote in which:...................................................................................................... On the basis of the results of the vote, the Foreign Policy Committee shall propose to the National Assembly on the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. Art. 4 and art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution to adopt, in the first vote, the draft ratification bill for the updated general agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for Turkey's Refugee Mechanism between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model financial contribution certificate, No 802-02-26, of 6 November 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u69	Thank you, Admiral Manushev. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs will introduce us to Mrs. Ilieva. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u70	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will introduce you to: ♪ I can't believe on the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the updated general agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model financial contribution certificate, No 802-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2018. At its meeting held on 14 November 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law on the ratification of the updated General Agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model certificate of financial contribution, No 802-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Plamen Bonchev, Director General of General Directorate Global Affairs, Mrs. Dimana Dramova, Head of Department of International Law and Mrs. Maria Shopova. On behalf of the importer, the bill was presented by Mr. Bonchev, who pointed out that the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey was established in November 2015 in order to coordinate the actions financed by the European Union budget and the contribution of the Member States of the European Union and to strengthen the effectiveness and complementarity of the support provided to refugees in Turkey. The funds under the mechanism are intended for emergency humanitarian aid, education, health and other services for refugees. It was noted that an agreement was reached during the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union at a European Council meeting held on 28 and 29 June 2018 to ensure the financing of the second tranche of the Facility of 3 billion. EUR of which 2 billion The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. 255 thousand. lv. According to the updated general agreement approved by the Permanent Representatives of the European Union Committee, each Member State should send to the European Commission a certificate of contribution and attached to it an individual timetable for national contributions for the period 2019. Bulgaria's payments will start from the third quarter of 2019 and will be provided by the central budget through the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Members of the National Assembly Krum Zarkov and Danail Kirilov took part in the debates, who expressed their support for the bill. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 15 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention and without abstention, proposed to the National Assembly that a bill ratifying the updated general agreement establishing a framework for governance and commitment to conditions for the Refugees in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model financial contribution certificate, No 802-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u71	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. No reports have been received from other committees. I am opening the debates on the proposed bill. Are there any MPs willing to speak? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u72	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I take the floor on the proposed agenda and the point of ratification of the updated common agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model certificate of financial contribution. I'm going to highlight a few important things. A few days ago, colleagues, the European Parliament was looking at the EU budget. I suppose some Members of the National Assembly are familiar. The main debate, precisely on the budget, was at the point relating to the financial assistance relating to the Republic of Turkey, and precisely concerning the updated common agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework to the conditions for a mechanism for refugees in the Republic of Turkey. The proposal that has been made is, as well as from the reports that we have heard from the European Union budget, that 1 billion be allocated. EUR 2 billion EUR to be from the gross domestic product of the member states, 2 billion from the member states and 1 billion from the EU budget. The Commission comes up with the exact opposite proposal or to be distributed proportionately, or 2 billion from the European Union budget and 1 billion from the budget of the Member States. There have also been two more points on which there has been a serious debate, namely the Programme of the European Union and the other point relating to science and innovation, which has proved to be a stumbling block for the adoption of the European Union budget. Dear colleagues, the Bulgarian European Presidency passed, we from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms a year ago, when we considered Bulgaria's own programme for the Bulgarian European Presidency, suggested that the point relating to the Republic of Turkey concerning the negotiation process and all other related issues concerning the Republic of Turkey should be laid down as a key point in our programme. Unfortunately, it was not accepted, but, anyway, during our European Presidency, there was an informal meeting between the leaders of the Union, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria and the current President of the Republic of Turkey. These important issues have been discussed, but unfortunately, we still do not see the resolution of these important issues concerning the future of the Union as particularly the countries that would be affected by the refugee waves. Many times, both the country's prime minister and MPs have highlighted the huge role of the Republic of Turkey in solving the case related to the refugee problem. And Bulgaria is a country that is an external border of the European Union and a neighbour of Turkey. Here I would like to emphasise precisely the efforts of our neighbour in dealing with the refugee flow. I would also like to inform you that there are signals of increasing tensions in places in the Republic of Turkey. I am talking between the local population and the refugees because of the huge number of newly populated people over 4 million people at the moment. However, great tensions have proved our partners to be a stable constant in this problematic situation. It is rightly stated in the Report, which is read in the European Union, that they are a stable constant and play an important role in dealing with this refugee wave, and that Turkish citizens show great hospitality, providing asylum at the time of over 3 million people. Naturally, there are other parameters related to Turkey's main trading partner, namely the European Union, it is the Union's sixth largest partner. And that is why it is extremely important today that the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria ratify this treaty, because the efforts that have been made, and I suppose that efforts will also be made by the other Member States to ratify this document. This concerns the future as the security of the entire Union. I am slightly worried, unfortunately, that the proposals of the Commission and Parliament, I am referring in the European Union, to a drastic reduction in the funds under the Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance to Turkey complicate the situation even more and risk pushing Brussels and Ankara in radically different directions. I hope this does not happen and the example that we will have to set in this National Assembly will be an example of the national meetings of the other Member States. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. Mr. Zablyanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! We're looking at a Project for a solution that has its history. It is about the agreement that was signed between Turkey and the European Union in the midst of the refugee crisis. This agreement was signed with the active action of the German Government, at a time when the Republic of Turkey obviously had no powers, opportunities and means, and perhaps a desire to control the refugee flow from Syria as a result of the civil war that was taking place in its hottest phase. The Republic of Turkey has placed conditions before the European Union for receiving financial assistance to control the flow of refugees, as well as to organise refugee camps on its territory, to organise the civil life of refugees and to create prerequisites for their return to the places where they come from, mainly from the Syrian Arab Republic. The agreement was fully signed under Turkey's dictatorship, as a key element in this agreement, regulating relations between the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Turkey, recognising Greece as a basic host country of the refugee flow, reaching agreements that both had a financial and political and international legal nature. At that time Bulgaria was subject to migratory pressure and was forced with its own and budget resources to organize the reception of migrant pressure from the point of view of, we all know, organization of migrant camps in the country, border guards, strengthening of the units of the Border Police and Technically, and personnel, and all of this was done at the expense of the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria. When preparing this agreement, the Bulgarian Socialist Party raised the issue both in parliament and the government about the need for the Bulgarian state to be incorporated into the Agreement, together with the Hellenic Republic, as a country subject to migrant pressure and to benefit from the general protection of this agreement. The Bulgarian government failed to achieve this goal, despite the talks and commitments made by the Prime Minister, we failed in this regard. The agreement remained to act between Greece, practically between the European Union and Turkey, as a country on it was only Greece. Bulgaria has become a donor, although not with who-knows what significant means, in an operation in which the Republic of Turkey has refused to control the spending of EU funds for the activities it carries out on its territory and in border areas with regard to refugees. In other words, the Republic of Turkey received a billion-dollar sum from the European Union, the Bulgarian state is not in this agreement, and as the colleagues who are advocates of the Agreement and the thesis that Bulgaria should participate financially, we benefit indirectly from this agreement because the Bulgarian border is reduced the migrant pressure. Of course, that can't be calculated. Migrant pressure may have been reduced for various reasons, including that the military conflict in Syria was limited and the civil war is obviously coming to an end. The return of refugees to Syrian territory, in the subsequent fate of the Agreement, is not discussed in any way. Today we must support another financial plan to secure the activities under this agreement. It seems to me that the Bulgarian state was not well enough in 2013, and then when the Agreement was signed, regardless of the governments that were at that time, did not protect its interests. A separatist agreement has been signed between Turkey and the European Union and what is being proposed today is to continue it. It seems to me that there is no reason to believe that this agreement could have life in the future. If this agreement was a model for the European Union's foreign policy, then a serious question arises: why were such agreements not signed with the countries of North Africa, for example, with Libya and other countries of Africa and the Middle East, which are a source of migration to the European Union? Why weren't such agreements signed? In other words, there is an interest being pursued by the Republic of Turkey, which has already put the European Union in a delicate situation, in a very difficult situation. In this case, arguments for partnership can hardly be found and found. It's about blackmail. This was one of the reasons why the Bulgarian Socialist Party at the signing of the Agreement voted against. The conditions have not changed substantially under this agreement. We believe that the abstention position is fully argued in this situation. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u75	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Are there any lines? I won't. A wish to make a statement was expressed by the national representative Julian Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u76	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I also had the opportunity in the Committee on Foreign Policy to state the position which is also of the MPs from IMRO. We believe that this agreement, even if it has a temporary positive effect in terms of migration of illegal migrants, was indeed signed with blackmail and racketeering from Turkey to the European Union. This is also not good for us in terms of the fact that Europe leaves people and political leaders of certain countries to blackmail and put Europe on their knees, that is, to achieve what they want on the basis of extortion and racketeering. It is really important for us to stop the migrant flow, but this agreement is a temporary solution to the problem, because while there is money Turkey will stop them, and by stopping the money or something else happens Turkey will release them. It is really important for us as a state all political parties, whether they are ruling or opposition, to work out a strategy, a solution to this problem: what will happen one day if this agreement does not work when hundreds of thousands of migrants start crossing and entering the territory of Bulgaria? We neither as opposition nor as rulers have a solution to this problem, and that is what we need to think about. We really need to think about what actions all political forces and leaders should take in the Bulgarian state to prevent such a thing from happening. Anyone can say both positive and negative things about this agreement. We, as IMRO, do not believe that we should support such blackmail and bending of hands from Erdogan to Europe, but we should, as a state and as politicians, draw up our strategy and solution to these problems. Because, God forbid, tomorrow or the day after tomorrow in the Republic of Turkey something has happened, and we see there that a lot has happened over the years, and these millions of migrants are going in the direction of Bulgaria or, God forbid, certain factors in Turkey's policy to collide and become millions and Turkish asylum seekers in Bulgaria. What does the Bulgarian state do then? We must answer this as politicians because this is the important question: how will we guarantee the national security of the Bulgarian state and what will we do as politicians, again, whether they are ruling or opposition? Our desire of IMRO is really to sit down all political factors in the Bulgarian state and to draw up a common plan and a strategy to protect national interests if such a thing happens, because only in this way will we be able to guarantee the future of Bulgaria and the subsequent generations of Bulgarian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u77	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Mrs. Grozdanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u78	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I will speak more politically than in fact, as you are usually accustomed to listening to me. I understand that the left and right parts of this House do not wish to support this agreement between the European Union and Turkey, in which Bulgaria is part of the negotiations by the European Union. I don't know if Mr. Angelov speaks on behalf of the whole group of the United Patriarchs or just on behalf of...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u79	IMRO.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u80	Only on behalf of IMRO. But what I have as an observation in the Committee on Foreign Policy is that all factions of the Patriots will not support the Agreement. If they don't, let them come out and say it in a minute. [[Reply of MP Julian Angelov.]] Bulgaria is part of several alliances. This is a choice that we have made informed, and if we want not to be part of these alliances, we must in this Chamber or by convening a Grand National Assembly to make such a decision. There are several examples that are not supported by the unified, community policy of the Unions, which ultimately leads to results, however not clearly outlined, that between the group of the United Patriarchs and BSP there is a transfer of the ball and important international documents are not accepted by Bulgaria. This is already a formed policy of isolationism of our country. We are isolated, Mr. Angelov, from the community policy of the formats in which we participate. I believe that this is not a useful thing for Bulgaria at the moment, especially when elections are coming for European institutions. The agreement with Turkey is an investment in our own security, no matter how much you do not want it, and it is a protection of national interest from the point of view of limiting illegal migration. Naturally, the decision was not easily taken, but was taken at the level of Heads of State or Government, at the highest level. Of course the consequences of it are not predictable. It is neither permanent nor a single solution, but it is a solution that has been working so far. If we had not had this solution so far, we would not have been able to know what would have happened at our border and what would have started as a migration stream from Bulgaria to the European Union, so the low parameter of migration numbers shows that the Agreement has been working so far. What else do I want to tell you about those criticisms you said about him? There is already a comprehensive system for monitoring the mechanism, I mean financial monitoring. It shall be controlled by the Court of Auditors of the European Union and the European Parliament and the Council concerned with that control. The message in it is staying close to the country of origin of migrants, and that's what we all want, isn't it? Last but not least, there is no way we as a party, I mean GERB People's Party, not to follow the human rights point of view. This agreement lays down money for humanitarian aid, education, health and infrastructure building that they need, so there is no way that the Agreement will not be supported on our part. I would like to say a few words from the point of view of what I started with, that between the two sides of the hall the far right and the left, there is a non-profit policy going on for Bulgaria. The first example, as much as you hate to hear it, is the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. What happened out there? The Patriots have started and the BSP is on the subject, despite all the support of the Party of European Socialists to this document. The Constitutional Court has a ruling on this document, it is quite bulky and if it is read in full, it is seen that there are grounds in it. But do you think it was easy for Orthodox Greece to ratify this document? He wasn't, but he did, because of principle politics. The other example is the United Nations Migrant Pact. What happened? The same transfer took place. Mr. Dzhambazki started, BSP took over the topic and GERB in order not to enter into an ugly internal political debate agreed that we would not sign this agreement. You will not find any expert in any of the three ministries that have worked for two and a half years, and there are experts not only GERB, there are experts from the DPS and from the BSP, and of all the political forces to say that there is some problem in this UN Migration Pact. This cannot in any way be compared to the Istanbul Convention because it is legally non-binding. Unfortunately, here the Constitutional Court cannot speak because it has no right, but do you think that when Bulgaria does not support it by voting and then does not support the relevant UN resolution on the dialogue on international migration, we will gain something? We will gain nothing, and we will not protect our migrants, who are outside Bulgaria, because there are such clauses in this pact. The problem is that the documents don't know each other, experts don't explain themselves to the public, and here we are playing internal politics with it. I will say another example that our government has not yet tabled for ratification. This is the Trade Agreement with Canada. It has a Constitutional Court's ruling that there are no discrepancies, but why does the government not submit this ratification agreement, if it is acting in a large part of its composition anyway? For the same reasons! Because the same debate is expected not to be expert and clear to people. So if we continue in this direction, I mean our party, it will turn out that the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is the most European party in this Parliament.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u81	Fact!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u82	For me this is not for the benefit of the GERB party. I call on the government to think a little bit more about whether it will support the United Nations Migration Pact, because there is nothing negative about it but to think about whether to support it, to think about how, in an earlier period of time than all these talks on these documents, there will be more information about people who are not being manipulated and speculated. Because in order to be able to understand what is written in these documents, there must be a wider debate and more people should be involved in it. My fellow Members, I call on you to support the Agreement that we are discussing today because it is in our country's favour. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u83	Thank you, Mrs. Grozdanova. Mr. Angelov's line, right after that three lines. Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u84	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Ms. Grozdanova, I respect your position and the position of the GERB party, but this is your position. When we have a position, we have the same position in the European Parliament and in the Bulgarian Parliament. The commitment you have made between us and BSP is simply not going to happen because they in the European Parliament have another position, but here another position.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u85	Don't worry!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u86	So our commitment isn't right and it's not right. In the end, we and GERB have an agreement on the governance of the country, which is described by a program for which things we are together, and others, for which we have a different opinion, can express them, and in this I see nothing wrong. I have not criticised you for the position that you support the Istanbul Convention in personal terms or that you support the global Migration Pact and so on, or in this particular case. This is your opinion and your right to do so, and you feel that it is right and right. We have a different view on this, and that opinion must be respected because thinking differently does not mean that you are an enemy, that you are not useful to the state or the European Union. Because our views on the development of Europe of the People's Party or of us, for example, by IMRO, in reformers and conservatives, are quite different. We have different positions and different views on the development of Europe, it is our right to express and say it, and I think it is better this way. But we are saying it openly in Europe and here, we are not doing it behind the scenes in Europe to vote for..................... and here populist to vote against.......... because it is how it exports us. So my request is really.. It is your right to have a different opinion from us, but do not do it as an attack, because we are not enemies because we have different views. On the contrary, the different views one day meet somewhere and there is the right direction for the development of the state and of Europe, so I personally believe. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u87	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Vitanov, second line. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Colleagues, I'm going to try to get out of the emotional charge with which it was marked, by the way, and the previous debate on this subject. There is no way I can resist when suggestions were made about the anti-European character of the Bulgarian Socialist Party and several examples were given. Firstly, the ratification of the Istanbul Convention. It turns out, in fact, that the position of the Bulgarian Socialist Party was the right one, at least in terms of the Constitutional Court's decision, which I hope you have no doubts about. As for the Migration Pact, I think our position has been made clear. It is rather encouraging rather than controlling migration. I find it very difficult to accept that a document that affects 65 million. This figure could grow to 250 million people. souls can be justified by an ugly internal party debate. I think it's very far from a state position. As for the third argument, because Mrs Grozdanova's statement was almost absent from those relating to the Agreement, which we consider at the point, I think that the financial part is one of the elements that matters least, and we have to admit that it is insignificant and does not determine BSP's doubts and reservations regarding it. I think that they have been made clear enough, namely that there is no guarantee for Bulgaria as a country, the external border of the European Union is not protected the national interest, it is not mentioned in this agreement and these reserves remain common today. That's what I meant as a line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u89	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Third line, Mr. Jablyanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u90	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mrs. Grozdanova, today we are looking at the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Turkey and it seems to me that it is inappropriate to draw parallels with other documents which have been the subject of discussion in our National Assembly, subject to decisions by other institutions, as is the case with the Constitutional Court, it is difficult to make such a connection. Of course, if these documents in some ideological dogmatics are seen as some kind of unity of the European Union's attitude and is expressive of its values towards other non-European communities, countries, religions, cultural spaces, I can find some argument, but it has no bearing on today's discussion. As far as the European Union's foreign policy is concerned, I think that even in the centre right of the European Union, it is difficult to find arguments in support of the current migration policy of the Union. Even Mrs Merkel, who was and continues to be the face of this kind of migration policy, as much as she can and who wishes to enter the European Union, with documents or without documents, to work in black or in light, but let her work. This type of migration policy has been denied by all national governments, including within Mrs Merkel's party. Should we be the last supporters of this thing, I don't understand? It is obvious that this agreement has been in effect for three years. What did it decide on common migration to the European Union? I also stressed for a reason in my statement that it was not followed by other agreements. It is obvious that the path of ensuring the internal security of the European Union, of controlling migration, is not the way of the separative agreements. That is why we are opposed to separative agreements, against the redemption of the European Union. The European Union must have a clear and open policy with regard to its neighbours. [[GERB lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u91	The weather, Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u92	If you wouldn't mind reminding the chairman, excuse me, he knows his business. Mrs. Stoyanova, we're looking at other topics today.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u93	Guide to completion!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u94	Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u95	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. A hole, Mrs. Grozdanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u96	Thank you. Colleagues, I've never gotten three lines from this room, which means I'm starting to make some kind of political speech. [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]] Keep in mind, Mr. Angelov, that I in no way criticize your positions. I believe that the positions of the United Patriarchs on certain topics on international topics are not in favour of my party and thus GERB loses identity and voters because if we compare the programmes of different political families, the main difference is foreign policy. If we begin to identify with other parties in foreign policy, we cannot seek the support of our voters. From the point of view of Mr. Vitanov's reply, the Global Covenant on Migration of the United Nations does not encourage migration, you do not know the document. What you're saying is cliché, I'm sorry. Mr. Zablyanov has a hard time getting into his mind work because it is very broad and very vast as knowledge. However, I do not think that BSP acts as a pro-European party in terms of the examples I have given in my speech. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u97	Are there any other statements? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. We are voting for a bill ratifying the updated general agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model financial contribution certificate No 802-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 6 November 2018. They voted 136 MPs: 98 against 7, abstention 31. The proposal has also been adopted with this in the first vote on the bill. Go ahead, Admiral Manushev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u98	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Please, on the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to put to a second vote the bill for ratification of the updated common agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model certificate of financial contribution.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u99	Thank you. I will put to the vote your proposal for a second reading of the bill which has just been adopted in the first vote. They voted 134 MPs: 102, against 2, abstention 30. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u100	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! THE LAW OF THE on the ratification of the updated common agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model certificate of financial contribution A single member. It shall identify the updated common agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model for a financial contribution certificate approved by the European Commission and the representatives of the governments of the Member States on 18 July 2018. FINAL DISCLOSURE It's a one-of-a-kind paragraph. The law shall enter into force from the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u101	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We move on to the vote: the name of the Law, the proposed text of the article alone, the section of the Final provision and the text of paragraph one of it. They voted 131 MPs: 99, against 5, abstention 27. The proposal has been adopted, and with this, the final Law on the ratification of the updated common agreement establishing a governance and commitment framework for the Refugee Mechanism in Turkey between the Member States of the European Union and the European Commission and the model certificate of financial contribution, No 802-02-26, submitted by the Council of Ministers. Dear colleagues, there will be no interruption of the meeting before parliamentary control. Message: An exhibition will be opened in the Northern foyer.............. does not stop us....................................................................................... We're all invited to attend the photo exhibition. Moving on to the last point of today's program: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions will not be made. Written answers from: - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of two questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Ivanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Ivan Ivanov and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov on a question from the MPs Georgi Svilenski and Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova on a question from the MPs Manol Genov and Lubomir Bonev; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Vasil Antonov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Veska Nencheva; - Minister of Interior Mladen Marinov to two questions from the National Representative Nikolay Tishev; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Mr. Karakachanov is already here. Here you are, Mr. Secretary. A declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group is available to you, Mrs. Yoncheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! We, the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, have submitted a request for independent expertise on the road pavement of the Bulgarian highways in a licensed European laboratory - no response yet. If they do not want to hear our voice, we hope that the voice of the sovereign will be heard. Therefore, we are organizing a petition to the European Commission and OLAF to check the quality of Bulgarian highways in a licensed European laboratory. In connection with the received signals and public discontent with the quality of the executed construction of individual road sections in the country, we want the European Commission and OLAF to make an independent expertise on the sections of the highways of Trakia, Hemus, Struma, Maritsa, built in the last five years with EU funds. The aim of the evaluation is to determine whether there are actually deficiencies in the quality of the resulting final product. The construction of poor roads poses a danger to Bulgarian citizens. In an accident on the road Sofia, on August 25, 2018, a bus exits the road and turns around, 20 citizens die. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works said that there is an unacceptable amount of material in the carrying layer of the road. This is inadmissible under the mandatory requirements of the technical specification to which all materials incorporated under the approved recipe must meet. She obviously hasn't been respected. The low-quality materials put in are significantly less expensive than those that should be put in place and lead to prerequisites for road accidents. At the same time, the object was handed over by the Model 16 Act and by proper documents. The case in Svoge shows that materials are put in the construction of roads that do not meet the mandatory requirements. Since there are similar deviations in the highway sections, we demand independent expertise to prove whether there is a danger to the lives of the people, to the lives of the citizens of the quality of the Bulgarian highways. The state of the highways is visible to all of us and without technical expertise. Highways, first-class and second-class roads begin to be renovated often as soon as they are built. The last example is with highway "Maritsa" which was officially opened on 29 October 2015. In February 2016, only five months later, about 200 meters from the highway fell. It's been remodeled. In November 2018, the same division between Dimitrovgrad and the village of Riceovo was again compromised. In Bulgarian society there is also the belief that the construction of large infrastructure projects, the construction of roads is a major tool that generates corruption. There is a doubt that a significant percentage of the value of public procurement for the construction of highways and roads, instead of their construction, is returned to power. We asked for the consent of the Road Infrastructure Agency to perform field tests on the road pavement by making deep nuts. The parts referred to in the request have been built over the last five years, as is the period of sustainability according to European requirements. This is a period within which the wear of the road is minimal. We demand that the selection of sites and sampling and testing be done by an independent European road quality expert. In order to ensure a real and impartial result, we propose that the analysis of the pavement be carried out by a licensed European laboratory that has not worked in Bulgaria to eliminate any doubts about addictions. The fact that there is such a big standoff for an independent inspection suggests fear of finding irregularities. The check does not undermine the prestige of the Bulgarian builders. The independent quality expertise of the Bulgarian highways helps the builders, forced to work in an environment where a number of irregularities are found throughout the whole chain of the investment process. We call on any Bulgarian citizen who insists on independent expertise, who believes that he has the right to receive an answer, namely if he creates the quality of the Bulgarian highways danger to their lives, to sign this petition without fear. No fear! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Yoncheva. Here you are, Mr. Gurnevski. A statement on behalf of the parliamentary group of GERB. You have the floor, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, for the second month we have witnessed the insolence, populism of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. We are witnessing a second month of incitement of the Bulgarian people to protests with false invitations for them. [[The national representatives from the group of BSP for Bulgaria are leaving the hall.]] The leader of the BSP told his mayors a call for mutiny: "We will sweep them away, on the 11th they are gone." As I can see, today, November 22nd, we're still here, and you're not gonna be here in the spring. [[Noise and lines.]] I thought they'd be gone in the spring and they'd be gone very early. Yesterday they talked about social justice in discussing tax laws. What social justice? They themselves proved it in the speeches of their MPs a lev per month for the poorer people and for the more modest cars. Yesterday they protected the rich and tried to stop the increase in tax on those cars that are in the parks, in the garages of the oligarchs, BMWs, Mercedes, Bentlits, for which they have to pay thousands of levs of taxes, and pay 6.50 levs. Yesterday they were not defending the Bulgarian people, but protecting theirs, those who financed them, those who protested for them. [[Applause from GERB.]] Shall we go through Karnobat, through Plovdiv? Who are the oligarchs? Yesterday they were invited to list and to say at least one name to the oligarch from GERB. They can't say! If there was, they'd run that name 100 thousand times. They never ran a single name. They're talking about social policy. They wanted us to have police patrols in every village. Here, yesterday Mrs. Ninova said in her speech: "I am going to those villages and to each village of the patrols. [[Applause from GERB.]] So GERB is running its election program. We're going to Grandma Dora's and her patrol. It's guarded by the state because Grandma Dora got over 100,000. BGN after her herd was euthanized. Now the state has sent a patrol to keep Grandma Dora from being robbed by some local bandit. That means the state keeps its promises. But they kept Mrs. Nino safe, so the patrols wouldn't let her out of their sight. How can we not protect you, Mrs. Ninova? We protect you like a soft egg! Only you will be the one who will very quickly eradicate this leech, in the body of the Bulgarian people, called the Bulgarian Socialist Mafia. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] That's why we're gonna protect you. A few more months, and you will complete the task. Now that I think about it, the country is even more social. Nothing's working, here, and now they're not working, they're getting paid. What is this social state and where does that money come from? The president doesn't work, he doesn't have any responsibilities, all day his job is to criticize those who are trying to fix the people's robe, 11,000. lv. paycheck! So big salaries that they've already confused directions and started to stop in the oncoming traffic, to be closer to the new dress shops. [[Applause from GERB.]] The social state will not comment on it. Last night, when I was thinking about their behavior and, given that they were a bunch of renegades, selling their parties, their ideas, repainting themselves, building socialism, then communism, then capitalism, and now again socialism, capitalism, I was wondering what would happen if they would become from their graves, such as Smirnenski and Vaptsarov, the ideologists with whom they boast, quote them, celebrate them? What would a Smirnenski say to himself? I wondered last night, and I took so I made a cover version of his poem? The Red Squadrons. If you'll allow me, I'll try to read it to you. There are people here who will understand it. The Red Squadrons 2018 On the morning of a bright era, with the torch of a new vera, The chameleons are coming, with a rush of old and a dash of brave. They fly over Thrace, they fly over Miziya, And with shrapnel they preach the new false vision. [[Applause.]] ♪ And she's waving a raging mane ♪ ♪ The black mare ♪ The rider carries her to the harvest field and fly after her bravely unscrupulous legions To the people of the treasury millions. Ah, fly, chameleons, in your estrem by pogroms The party has a glimpse of hope and love, She shrunk the right hard, the BCP stands up today Bulgaria to pillage every last one of them! Let in terror, in surprise, fall down every new building of our democratic righteousness in the red race And Corny to find behind the privatized gates Dead new chimeras for state and law! Ah, fly ye among lies and fiery machine guns Formidable foretold thefts, With a storm, lightning and thunder proclaim a proud march To the plundered slaves of our oligarchs, our natives. ♪ And when you put a stone in a flame ♪ From our betrayals Bulgaria has fallen into the ashes, defeated, reconciled, return to the Kremlin, that peace and righteousness may arise over the land of our birth. Quiet Smirnenski, and paleer than Johann, He leaves the barricades with an unhindered obsession, With what hopes did the squadrons send here, and they found themselves again in the oncoming movement. [[Laughter and applause by GERB and the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u105	This was a declaration on behalf of the GERB parliamentary group. We are continuing Parliamentary control with a question to Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister for Defence. He will answer a question from the National Representative Jahan Ibryamov about the award of Djanko Markov.. Member of the Union of the Bulgarian National Legions with a sign of dignity and honor........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 4 of the Paris Peace Treaty. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is related, as you said, to the award of Djanko Markov a member of the Union of the Bulgarian National Legions with a sign of dignity and honor. The Ministry of Defence awarded an award for dignity and honor to the former legionnaire Djanko Markov. The order was signed by the Minister of Defence Mr. Karakachanov and was issued on 22 September 2018. For Markov's services to the defence of the country, his active social and military-patriotic activities, as well as in connection with his 96th anniversary. Markov was also rewarded because of his participation in the second phase of the war after 9 September 1944, when our country ranks in the ranks of the anti-hitler coalition, a war whose liberation and anti-fascist mission he denies publicly in a series of interviews and for which he believes it is a sham to be called a homelandly one. I remind you that Djanko Markov is a former active member of the organization of the Union of the Bulgarian National Legions, which acted in 1932 and defined as the most powerful fascist movement in Bulgarian history, which works closely with the national-socialist regime of the Third Reich. Markov is among his prominent leaders along with General Hristo Lukov, General Nikola Zhekov, Ilija Minev, Hristo Stattev and others. Moreover, in his public and documented statements, he described the deportation of the Jews from the Belomorie and Macedonia as a "deportation of a hostile population" and admitted that as an officer he carried out combat missions against the Bulgarian anti-fascists, regretting that his missions were only reconnaissance and did not lead to real bombings of the guerrilla squads. After four years in the army, in 1948 he was arrested and there was a 5-year sentence in the trial of the so-called Second Legionnaire Center. He was then a lieutenant, and it is not clear when or who produced it in a colonel's reserve. After 1989 Djanko Markov was Chairman of the organization Bulgarian Democratic Forum declaring himself the successor of the Union of the Bulgarian National Legions. The proposal for his award comes from the Social Activities Directorate of your ministry, Mr. Minister, whose director Ivo Antonov became known for his Nazi bias and was proposed for dismissal personally by Prime Minister Borisov. In this regard, my question to you is as follows. When and how was the devoid of military rank Djanko Markov produced in rank a colonel from the reserve? For what merit did you give him this prestigious award?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u107	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, please come in and answer the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u108	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ibryamov, I answered the same question last week to two of your colleagues from BSP. Unfortunately, you were not there then and I will have to repeat some of the facts. First of all, there are some in your question that amaze me very much. Until when will Bulgarian lawmakers easily qualify parts of Bulgarian history as fascist and certain personalities as fascists? But the most amazing thing about me is that in your particular case about Colonel Djanko Markov, you seem to be contradicting yourself with those you've been developing for 28 years. When you talk about the revival process, it is a process organised by a totalitarian, communist evil state. On the other hand, you are quoting the fact that the same one, in your opinion, had arrested him in 1946 and put him in jail. Let me remind you that tens of thousands of people entered the prison after 9 September only on the slightest charge of what was happening in the Stalin Soviet Union at the time. They were killed without trial and sentence 30,000 people! And now you have this power, which, under other circumstances, you qualify as repressive, non-democratic and so on, when you may be rid of your political party to develop its ideology, and when you do not get rid of the fascist Djanko Markov! On the facts. First, you rely on an absolutely false statement: one of the prominent leaders of the Bulgarian national legions. Djanko Markov, a moment to open the biography, was born in 1924. The Legion was created in 1932. Djanko Markov entered the school, in the student legion, for three or four years before entering the Military College in 1936. Do you think that a 16-year-old youth, not-child, could be the head of some legion, of some organization?! Back in the day, both the BCP and the pioneers did not make them leaders. This is just for your information, when you say that someone was a supervisor, an inspirer, an organizer and a-what you are. Since 1936 Djanko Markov entered the restored then Military College. As now and then, at the moment you enter the ranks of the army, you depoliticize, therefore he has no such activity. He graduated from military school and became a flyer. Henceforth follow the answers to your specific questions. Djanko Markov is sued by the process you say against the so-called Second Legionnaire Center. Absolutely proven in history it is an active event, a fruit of the clash between then Military Intelligence and then State Security. In order to neutralize the head of military intelligence, these are internal party battles, the BCP invents all this so-called Second Legionnaire Center to cut off their man's head. Along with it, unfortunately, there are dozens or hundreds of young Bulgarians who lie in camps and prisons. To your question, when was it produced in rank Colonel? I'm looking at the order of October 23, 1992. In order of the then Minister of Defence Staliyski, in which he commanded: I am raising officers from the reserve to the rank of Colonel as follows: Lieutenant Colonel Noev posthumously; Lieutenant Dimitar Nikolov posthumously; Captain Alexander Nozanov posthumously, Lieutenant Dyanko Georgiev Markov. Djanko Markov is fired from the army with a lieutenant rank, as you rightly pointed out, but you did not develop it because it is his military biography. He participated in the second phase of World War II, in which Bulgaria participated. Regarding whether or not he called it the homeland, the Fatherland called it in the Soviet Union, it was their homeland, attacked by Hitler on June 22, 1941. Whether we have the right to call it a native, this is another topic. To me, she's not fatherland. The homeland war was the Balkan War, in which Bulgaria struggled to free the Bulgarians in Thrace and Macedonia from Turkish slavery, the fatherland of Bulgaria was World War I, when we fought to free them from Serbian slavery. Other Patriotic Wars Bulgaria has not led. This is the second phase of World War II in which we are involved.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u109	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u110	Mr. Karakachanov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u111	Just for your information, Djanko Markov has been decorated. Wait for the line, Mr. Chairman?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u112	Let's do this to stick to the procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u113	Then I will answer you with more facts regarding the awards that this worthy Bulgarian officer received.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u114	Thank you very much for understanding. Let the question be completed, you will finally complete the reply in the reply. Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues! Nowhere in my speech did I approve of this regime or that regime. All you've listed are separate manifestations. We ask if the Ministry of Defense has a pattern of national socialism.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u116	Ah, that's another question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u117	Djanko Markov is a participant in the assault teams of the young members of the organization Bulgarian National Legions, involved in the attacks of the Jewish neighborhood in Sofia. Doesn't excuse him for being 16 years old. Was he a supporter of the army a supporter of the views of Hristo Lukov, his sworn supporter? The directorate offered to award Markov is headed by the same one the Prime Minister proposed for dismissal for his close views with the Nazis. The same Markov was not the man who tried to restore the Bulgarian National Legion in its authentic form. Moreover, colleagues: he tried to bring them into the Union of Democratic Forces, but the late Zhelev did not allow fascism in the UDF. We know he's an undisputed wrestler against fascism. How does a supporter become a colonel?! Does Minister Karakachanov know what art. 4 of the Paris Peace Treaty, which resulted in Bulgaria becoming a member of the UN two years after the entry into force of this Treaty? Whose statement was it, I quote: the hostile population of the Western outskirts, thus justifying their liquidation in the concentration camps? Isn't that what happened from the National Assembly stands right out of Djanko Markov? Is the Minister going to withdraw or cancel the award of the prominent Nazi Djanko Markov? If you do not, Bulgaria is obliged to inform the UN that we refuse to comply with art. 4 of the Paris Peace Treaty.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u118	Thank you. That was Mr. Ibryamov's line. Here you go, Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u119	You've got it all wrong, Mr. Ibryamov. You're asking me the question: are there any ideas of national socialism in the Ministry of Defense? Here's your question, I'll quote it for the record. A question from Jayhan Ibryamov, MP from the DPS. Your question is this, Mr. Ibryamov, I will read it verbatimly: When and how was the devoid of military rank Djanko Markov produced in the rank of Colonel of the Reserve? For what merit did you give him this prestigious reward? Nowhere in your question is there anything about national socialism. Don't speculate. Those tricks you learn to play in parliament, I've played them before you. It's just that to an old pickle, there's no point in selling those curved cucumbers! Djanko Markov is a worthy Bulgarian officer. This man was awarded after World War II before they did his work, which is why they put him in a camp, along with tens of thousands of innocent people, among whom my grandfather was, and the other was killed like a dog and sentenced posthumously. So I'm asking you very much not to speculate on these things about justice after 9 September! I read you the order of Minister Aleksandar Staliyski from 1992 to produce a group of officers, most of which posthumously. Secondly, the other speculation is not proposed by the Social Policy Directorate at the Ministry of Defence, and the award is offered by the Union of His Majesty's graduates, by Military Schools and the School of Reserve Officers is a proposal from the Veterans Union. I have never shared the Bulgarian officers with those who served before 9 September, after 9 September or after 10 November 1989. For me every Bulgarian man or woman in uniform who took an oath to Bulgaria, whether it was called Kingdom, People's Republic or only the Republic of Bulgaria, is the same oath to Bulgaria, it is not to a certain order! Here are the awards he received after 9 September the commander of the National Air Forces Gancho Manchev Ivanov from August 1945. August 1945!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u120	Time, time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u121	Time, but you're asking me provocative questions, and I'm gonna break it. Awarded with a Soviet medal for victory over Germany Djanko Markov, 1945. There is another medal given to Dyanko Markov by the Minister of People's Defence, Lieutenant General Georgi Damyanov.. also representative of the then BCP, Order of Valor, because of excellent command qualities, courage and dedication in the fight against fascist Germany.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u122	Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, to complete the answer. Finish the answer, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u123	One such officer, who was evaluated even at that time, has the right to be awarded by normal contemporary democratic Bulgaria at the age of 96. Unfortunately, however, all the qualifications, insults and slanders you use on the occasion of a worthy Bulgarian officer will remain at the expense of your moral and political conscience. Thank you. [[Deputy Prime Minister Krasimir Karakachanov is leaving the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u124	Thank you for the supplement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u125	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u126	Here you are, Mr. Ibryamov. I expected such a note in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u127	Mr. Chairman, colleagues, I take the floor in the manner of conduct. Dear Mr. Chairman, I would like to ask you to remind the executive that their employers are us, the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Bulgaria. The fact that they answer questions from MPs is part of their duties. The time delay is a fact for which you of the ruling coalition constantly turn a blind eye when you allow to cross this time precisely from the ruling coalition or ministers. If Minister Karakachanov had been good enough to answer the question I asked, then in my reply, it is no coincidence that I remind him of some facts, we would not have come to these words which are of strange verbal design, without content. In the National Assembly, we have heard it once again, Mr. Chairman. It's from a deputy prime minister broadcast by extreme nationalists. You can't insult a representative of the people! You're the first among equals. I understand that you have an addiction to the United Patriarchs, because you are part of them, but please note the ministers to respect the Constitution and at least the Rules on the Organization and Activities of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u128	Thank you, Mr. Ibryamov. I'm going to be strict in measuring time, and I'm going to follow your note. Mr. Angelov in the manner of conduct. Just keep it the way it is, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u129	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! My question is in the manner of conduct, because you allow MPs to put different questions than those asked to the respective minister or deputy prime minister. Mr. Ibryamov cannot have any claim to answer another 100 additional questions which he did not ask in his written question to the Deputy Prime Minister. And you allow him to speak and make suggestions from this tribune, to ask thousands of other questions, to make suggestions to the Prime Minister and to the Ministry of Defense. Of course, after that, there is no way the Deputy Prime Minister couldn't respond to all these suggestions, because you allowed him to be the host of this meeting. That is, my request to you is: don't let those who tame terrorists who blew up wagons with mothers and children make suggestions from this tribune, but let them essentially ask questions to each and every one of them. Otherwise, it is normal that within two or three minutes you cannot answer 30 questions that suggest certain things in view of the activity which Minister Karakachanov performs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u130	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. I get the point. I thought the Deputy Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u131	Mr. Chairman, for a personal explanation...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u132	There's no personal explanation, please. We're in procedure. We are entering other dimensions of parliamentary control, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u133	There were other cases when during the procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u134	There were precedents, I agree.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u135	Exactly.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u136	Okay, here's a personal explanation. There was, but I wasn't able to tell if you were in the same direction...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u137	Mr. Chairman, the personal explanation is to colleague Angelov because he took the liberty of accusing a parliamentary group and bound it with people who have committed an unlawful act in the Republic of Bulgaria. At the time, it was called something else. In our latest history, we are witnessing an aired man from their party, who sells Bulgarian citizenship, who is accused by the Prosecutor's Office. He's being charged.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u138	Excuse me, Mr. Ibryamov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u139	These are the things we are talking about, Mr. Chairman and colleagues, when you go out on this stand, and the hate speech is pouring out of you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u140	Mr. Ibryamov, you have violated fundamental rules and principles. Presumption of innocence is a well-known legal institution for everyone. The D.A.'s office has no place in this room. This isn't a courtroom. I'm sorry about that detour. I apologize to all the MPs who didn't get involved. I take note of the time and content of parliamentary control. From now on, I'm warning you, I'm going to keep an eye on this. We're moving on to the next questions. Ready to answer them is Mrs. Petya Avramova, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. Ask by the MPs Manol Genov and Lyubomir Bonev on the policy of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to deal with the delays of municipalities in the development, adoption and entry into force of common planning. Here you are, Mr. Bonev, to develop the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u141	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the House, Dear Minister! The development of common planning is a process in which spatial, sectoral and temporal aspects of policies and resources are coordinated to achieve defined objectives using specific financial instruments in key areas of the development of urbanised territories. The common design plans are strategic management tools for implementing the municipality's policy, as well as the basis for its long-term, sustainable, spatial development. In the process of its creation, visions, goals and strategies for spatial development of municipalities are taken out and formulated. The language of spatial planning and in accordance with the spatial strategy shall determine the prevailing intended uses and the way of design of the individual structural parts of the territory for a time period of 25 years. In this regard, our question to you is: what measures has the Ministry led by you to deal with the lag behind the municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria in the preparation, adoption and entry into force of the common planning plans? Have an analysis and assessment of the current state of this problem, which is an element of the social and economic development of municipalities, namely, when do you foresee a deadline for the entry into force of the common planning plans in all municipalities in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria? What will the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works take to catch up on the backlog of municipalities? Is there an analysis of the reasons for the long and slow procedures for the entry into force of the common planning plans? In the Law are prescribed sanctions for the mayors of municipalities who have failed to implement the general planning within the time frame, do you intend to apply them to them? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u142	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Here you are, Madam Secretary. According to the procedure, you have five minutes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u143	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Bonev, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Bonev, your inquiry is related to the implementation of § 123 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction of the Area, according to which the mayors of municipalities and municipal councils were obliged to take action to develop the general planning plans of the municipalities, respectively the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works was obliged to allocate funds from the state budget and to carry out methodological guidance, coordination and control in the award, development, coordination and approval of the general planning plans of the municipalities. According to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, data from 265 municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria at present have entered into force current common development plans for their entire territory. The current financial assistance agreements, which are being implemented at present, are: 34 items concluded in 2015, with a deadline until the expiry of the 2018 budget, the duration of these agreements has been extended twice in 2016 and 2017; 113 numbers concluded in 2016 with an expiry date of the 2018 budget; 4 numbers concluded in 2017, with an expiry date of the 2019 budget; and 6 numbers concluded in 2018, with a deadline of the 2020 budget year. At present, eight municipalities have stated a wish for financial assistance, with five municipalities: Boboshevo, Dryanovo, Simitli, Treklyano and Tsar Kaloyan, being informed of the need to supplement the documentation in accordance with the requirements of the established terms and conditions for financial support, and with the other three..... Avren, Pomorie and Belene, financial assistance agreements are to be concluded. Five municipalities have not applied for financial support at all at the Ministry of Gabrovo, Elhovo, Hayredin, Chirpan and Yablanitsa. The deadline for the entry into force of the common planning plans is set out in the financial assistance agreements in force. Compliance with such a deadline is linked to the implementation of procedures for the award of the development, coordination, announcement and approval of the common planning plans, which is entirely within the powers of municipal administrations and depends on their activity and commitment. In general, it is envisaged that the fund-support process will be completed by the end of 2021. After the expiry of this forecast deadline without existing common planning, municipalities will remain the ones who have not taken any action to develop them, including to assist in their development under § 123, as well as municipalities which fail to comply with the award procedures within this period for the development, coordination and announcement. The information relating to the financial support procedure shall be public and published annually on the Ministry's website. All municipal administrations have been notified of the actions to be taken to include in the financial support procedure, including recall letters, in the case of delays by certain municipalities or upon expiry of the time limits set in the agreements. By order of the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, a permanent working group shall be appointed annually, which shall examine and adopt the different stages of the development of the common planning. In relation to the information on lag and objective inability to implement the agreements concluded in 2015 and 2016, which expire in 2018, the Ministry is prepared to conclude anexes to the existing agreements to extend their deadline. Abandonment in the implementation of the agreements is mainly defined as a consequence of the delay in implementing the procedures for the selection of a contractor under the Public Procurement Act when obtaining the data necessary for the production of output data and in carrying out coordination procedures under the Cultural Heritage Act. The Ministry keeps in constant contact with municipalities, provides methodological assistance, cooperates, including when entering information about delays in coordination procedures in other institutions. However, we believe that only the Ministry's efforts are not sufficient to overcome the delays of municipalities in the development and approval of the common planning plans. It is also of great importance to increase the activity of municipal administrations, for which they could... [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Yeah, there wasn't enough time. After that, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u144	You will be able to complete this procedure. Thank you for the time being. Mr. Bonev, you can take attitude and ask further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u145	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Madam Minister, have you now found that there are problems which result in delays in the preparation and adoption of the common planning plans? Wasn't it right for these problems and possible solutions to be foreseen and analysed at the award stage? The delay in the preparation of the common planning is not due to our poor legislation, but to the lack of administrative and expert capacity in the government. The problems in the award, implementation and coordination of the general planning plans by municipalities are the following and the brightest award through the Public Procurement Act and the lowest price criteria. Orders are earned by companies and associations without any experience in spatial planning. General planning plans are drawn up with an estimated period of 25 years, as I said. There is no solution to the question of maintaining the database.. who makes them and when? Municipalities do not have the capacity and resources to work in the GIS environment. The collection of output data makes the municipal administration financially burdened. Consistency of environmental assessments at the stage of a preliminary project for a general development plan of the municipality is an extremely long and clumsy procedure at best between 6 and 12 months. Consistency of the common development plans with the National Institute for Real Estate Cultural Heritage has unclear deadlines and requirements................................................................................................ is between 6 to 12 months................................................................................................................................................. The Road Infrastructure Agency does not agree with the general planning plans if the forecasts do not coincide with the Agency's short-term investment programme, namely the overall planning plan has a time period of 30 years and the API's investment programme is from 12 to 24 months. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Let me just finish asking the question. In the context of everything that has been said so far and during the ongoing debates on the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works for next year, I would like to ask you: is it not precisely now time to comment on the key policy of the Ministry on the development, adoption and entry into force of the common planning? How is and is their application even possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u146	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Madam Minister, you have three more minutes to answer the questions that have just been asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u147	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bonev, you have just repeated some of the reasons that municipalities face as objective for delaying the development, coordination, adoption of common planning. This is also the finding of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. I just stressed that overcoming these obstacles is not impossible, since many municipalities have already adopted common planning plans and that in most part the whole process depends on the activity of the respective municipal administrations on how they will deal with all the adoption procedures. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works provides financial resources and implements all the methodical support that municipalities need to receive and which is within the competence of the Ministry. I'll add my answer to the part where you're referring to the fines for the municipalities. A fine of 10 thousand is provided for in the ZUT. BGN, which is imposed on mayors of municipalities who, within 6 months after the entry into force of § 23, did not submit a proposal to the relevant municipal council for the preparation of common planning plans, and no period should be provided for the completion of the procedure for approval and entry into force of the projects. In this regard, no sanctions are provided for for this for municipal administrations. The purpose of the provision is not to sanction municipalities, but to stimulate and support them financially in the development of the common planning plans in view of the restrictions that will arise with the entry into force of the changes in art. 59, para. Art. 1, art. 103, para. Art. 5, art. 109, para. 2 and 4 of the LU, and according to which the detailed planning plans to be drawn up and approved must comply with the projections of the general planning plans, which will limit the possibility of municipalities to proceed with detailed planning. We continue to provide assistance so that all municipalities in Bulgaria and with the financial support that is defined, to develop, to adopt common planning plans for the development of each municipality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u148	Thank you, Minister Avramova. You have the floor, Mr. Bonev, for treating the given answers to the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u149	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Madam Minister, the general planning plan, as I said, is a strategic tool of the municipality for implementing the policy of the municipality and the region, as well as a basis for its long-term sustainable spatial development. The overall development plan solves a number of problems, and I will refer only to a part of them: the common structure of the territory and the dominant purpose of the constituent and structural parts; the location and boundaries of the urbanised territory, the agricultural territories, the forest territories, the protected territories, the violated territories; the general regime of the structure of each of the above territories, which includes the most general objectives, measures and requirements; the extra-urbanised territories... exclusive state ownership, public ownership and public municipal property; the location of the networks and facilities of the technical infrastructure in the territory of the municipality and of the neighbouring municipalities; the territory with the likely spread of foreseeable natural disasters and the necessary preventive measures and the manner of device and protection. At the time of the award of most of the general planning plans of the municipalities there was an adopted National Concept for Regional Development, but there were no regional planning schemes drawn up, that is, one level of planning is missing. This led to a piece of work without a comprehensive vision of regional and regional policy. It relies only on adopted regional development plans without them being postponed on spatial schemes. The need to adopt common development plans is developed on the basis of four interrelated policies aimed at strengthening economic base and development, promoting equality, social integration and renewal, protecting and improving the environment in order to achieve places and global sustainability, stimulating good governance and sustainable use of local resources. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] It is through this integration that there is an increase in the attractiveness and competitiveness of the territory, providing good quality of life, recreation and access to basic activities in them. The sad truth is that one minister comes and another goes, but the Bulgarian people pay the bill for the wrong and ineffective solutions. It is high time for someone to take an attitude and take responsibility for the work that has not been done and is not resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u150	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. The next question to Minister Avramova is from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zheleva on the construction of manganese treatment plants in the municipalities of Haskovo region located along the Maritsa river. Here you are, Mrs. Jeleva, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u151	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, as MPs from Haskovo District, we have repeatedly raised questions related to the poor water quality in the region. In addition to the presence of uranium in the water of the town of Haskovo, the town of Harmanli and 14 other villages in the district there is another serious problem, namely the presence of manganese and its elevated state according to the established norms. This is typical for most municipalities along the Maritsa municipality. The situation is particularly serious in the municipalities of Svilengrad and Simeonovgrad. In some villages in Haskovo for two years there are more than six bans for the use of water. Mangan must not exceed 50 micrograms per litre. The following findings are made: more than 4000 micrograms per litre in the village of Bryagovo; more than 3300 micrograms per litre in the village of Nikolaevo. For years, except that the water is not purified, there are serious delays in the pipes. This shall be established when the relevant accidents are removed. Crisis headquarters are repeatedly called up, and the only solution is the emergency construction of treatment plants. The water operator on the territory of Haskovo district does not have such financial opportunities to implement such a type of facility. In this regard, our question to you is: what measures does the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works provide for, and in particular, what deadlines for solving this problem for many years? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Jeleva. Here you are, Madam Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u153	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mrs. Zheleva, Dear Mr. Dinkov, the quality of water intended for drinking-bit water supply is in complex dependence on various factors such as the condition and quality of water in water sites, water supply infrastructure, natural resources and phenomena, environmental protection, pollution from industrial, agricultural and other sources. The quality of drinking water is controlled throughout the chain from the water source to the crane of the consumer. In particular, I should point out that manganese is an indicator indicator. In the event of non-compliance with the requirements of the water quality regulation intended for drinking purposes, state health control authorities shall assess whether there is a health risk and require water supply organisations to take action to restore the quality of drinking water. Exceeding the benchmark's limit values is important for consumers as it changes the organics of drinking water color, turbidity, smell and taste. The Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works shall participate in the exchange and analysis of information on monitoring the quality of drinking water by competent institutions. In most cases, a lasting solution to the identified problems also requires substantial investment. At present, the following actions have been taken to resolve the problem by the Ministry. For the municipality of Simeonovgrad with funding from the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works of 11 thousand. 200 leva. In 2015, a pre-investment study and project for design in a phase-based design of a drinking water treatment facility for Simeonovgrad and the surrounding villages of Briagovo, Alexandrovo, New Hope, Polyanovo and Konstantinovo was prepared. In 2016 and 2017 the Ministry provided additional funds of 93 thousand. £600. for carrying out hydrogeological studies and analysis of the state of the groundwater bodies in the area for the establishment of new water sources of good quantity and quality of water for water supply of Simeonovgrad and surrounding villages. A section of an underground water body with a small resource has been examined, the waters of which meet the criteria of the Water Quality Ordinance, intended for drinking purposes and the Groundwater Research, Use and Conservation Ordinance. These waters can be used to improve water quality in the water supply system. For the municipality of Svilengrad with funding from the budget of the Ministry, the municipality implements a project. The project covers the replacement of about 4900 meters of plumbing network and over 400 building deviations. In 2017 and 2018 779 thousand were granted. lv. and at present, about 2,000 m of water lines and over 140 building deviations have been replaced. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] The necessary means for completion of the site are about 800 thousand. lv. and they will be provided by the Ministry's budget. I'll finish my answer in the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u154	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line? The word is Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, you have made an familiar account of what is the water in Haskovo region and how is it handled with regard to monitoring, but here the question is specific.... what measures will the Ministry take regarding the solution of manganese in municipalities along the Maritsa municipality? We have a bad example in this regard of dealing with the problem of uranium. In May 2017, the government granted 2 million. lv. to resolve the matter in Haskovo. To this day, this issue has not been resolved and haskovos will welcome New Year again with watermen. This means that something lame is in the Ministry, whether in the municipality or in the water service operator. With regard to tackling the problem of manganese, last year Deputy Minister Krumova announced to the Committee on Regional Policy that there will be a special programme regarding the construction of manganese treatment plants in small towns. This sounded like a very good response to the demands in this regard, but I see that it remains only a wish, and there are no concrete measures. One thing is the replacement of the water pipelines is important, and I thank you for the answer that additional funds will be provided for Svilengrad Municipality, but the issue of the treatment plants must be addressed by the Ministry. The water operator in Haskovo cannot solve this issue because, firstly, the company has problems with consolidation with the water association. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm graduating. Then a business plan needs to be drawn up, approved and we will enter the new programming period. I believe that with regard to the resolution of this issue, the Ministry has a crucial role to play, and this should fall into the budget. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u156	Thank you, Mr. Dinkov. Mrs. Secretary, come in for your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u157	One thing I must agree with you, Mr. Dinkov, is that the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works must find the way, the means so as to solve the problem of water quality that people receive as consumers. It is indeed an important moment with the consolidation of the water companies in order to be able to participate in the application for funds under the Operational Programme "Environment" to enable the financing of all what is needed for the quality of the water they receive and sell to consumers. I congratulate everyone who has managed to make this consolidation, have regional pre-investment studies, apply and invest millions of levs in water quality. The ministry will continue the issue of serious financial resources, looking for funding for those who have failed, so as to ensure quality and deal with the problem of both manganese and everyone else. You know that 3 million were provided in 2017. 640 thousand. lv. in Haskovo district municipalities: additional emergency water supply of Haskovo 1 million 930,000. lv.; construction of the Cleaning Station.. Mineral Baths....................................................................................................................... We continue to work towards providing funds to tackle the problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u158	Thank you, Mrs Avramova. The next question is from the MP Georgi Gokov. The question is about the condition and the need to repair the third-class road III-608, part of the Republican road network of Bulgaria, passing entirely along the territory of Stara Zagora region, in the section between the villages of Pistovo and United. Here you are, Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Madam Minister, my question is about the condition and the need to repair a third-class road III-608, which is part of the Republican road network of Bulgaria. I've given up asking questions about third-class roads, especially in rural municipalities, if you will, in Stara Zagora region. Only that people are very excited about what roads their cars are moving on, because even though they live in some remote villages from the city, they also pay their taxes, their wineries and so on, and they resent that they have to break their cars. The transport and operation status of these Republican roads, including III-608 Kazanlak.................................................................................................. A significant part of it is without asphalt. According to experts, it is evident even for non-specialists that partial patching is practically not possible and it is clear that the imposition of funds for the ongoing maintenance of this third-class road is inappropriate. The money for such repairs will be thrown to waste. That means the road needs major repairs. In this regard, Madam Minister, I'm asking you a few questions. They are not so much an answer to me, but to hear what you think of their desires. The first question is: is there a project ready to repair and rehabilitate the road section in question? Is it included in the API repair program for 2018? In early November, a third-class Republican road III 6602 was renovated, which passes along another stretch, but reaches the village of Pustrovo and connects with the section of which I speak to you. Provided it is not included in API's 2018 repair programme, will it be included in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u160	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Madam Secretary, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I requested from the Agency a statement on what are the reasons why during the last two budgetary years sections of Republican road III-608 Kazanlak Experts are of the opinion that the 2012 road project is not up to date, and given the past period of time and change in its operational state, a new one must be developed. So far, the only obstacle to the award of design and implementation of major road repairs is the shortage of financial resources. During the last two years under the Programme, the following activities have been carried out: in the section from km 0 to km 1+2, the operational state of the road pavement was restored, carrying out an wearing-out layer asphalt value of 393 thousand. 590 leva. with VAT. In the section from km 51 to 57 Midtown "Chirpan" is performed patching of damaged areas and deformities of the pavement. By the end of November, a patching will be carried out if the weather conditions allow, on deformed areas worth 18 thousand. lv. The division from km 11+3 to 28+1 Srednogorovo The population of the village of Smeene uses a municipal road through the village of Naydenovo for access to the municipal center of Bratia Daskalovi village and the town of Chirpan. The village of Postovo is served by municipal company "Sweet Kettle," Pistol. In October and November this year was renovated the section from Stara Zagora Mineral Baths to the village of Sweet Well with patching of damaged areas and deformities in the pavement. In the section between the village of Sweet Kladenets and the village of Pustrovo is laid a whole wearing layer, the repair activities are worth 562 thousand. BGN 221. A list of sections is currently being prepared to be included for the planned repair next year. Following the approval of the Agency's budget for 2019 and, respectively, within the framework of the financial framework of the repair programmes, the possibility will be sought to provide funds for the construction of a project for major renovation of Republican road III-608. Since there is a need for technological time and implementation of procedures under the Public Procurement Act, the inclusion of the road in the major renovation programme can be planned in 2020. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u162	Thank you. Mr. Gokov's line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Minister, thank you for your thorough response. Along with what we asked about, you answered for several more roads. I just want to tell you that it was a specific matter of the section of the Diversity. The question is that people are watching that the next road is being repaired, which you mentioned in your reply a repair of the third-class Republican road III-6602 Stara Zagora Baths Thank you for the amounts you mentioned were spent on ongoing repairs to the rest of the road. I haven't seen the other section, but especially for this section, I'm telling you that cosmetic current repairs are absolutely unnecessary because they're just spending money and, as they say, they're hardly gonna blindfold people with this kind of activity. You better really do something serious at once for this time. As far as I understand from the answer, you have made a commitment that 2020 will be included in the Plan of the Road Infrastructure Agency. I hope the people heard it and with their inner feelings to give you an extension by 2020. I'm worried that we're putting a lot of things off for 2020 and that you won't be able to stay in hopes that you won't be a minister and transfer them to someone else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u164	Does he have a back? Here you are, Mrs Avramova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u165	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Gokov, these are the budget opportunities of the Road Infrastructure Agency. We need to prioritize the road sections according to their load and the number of vehicles passing through them. We're trying to repair the busier ones. Indeed, this time what you said also coincides with the opinion of the experts from the Road Infrastructure Agency that this time a major repair is needed, that it must be designed and then the main repair must be carried out. So we continue within the means available to prioritize and repair the roads in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u166	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The next question is from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov. It is about emergency repair activities on the territory of Krivodol municipality, Vratsa district. Here you are, to develop the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u167	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! Two weeks ago the construction works were completed on the bridge at the village of Kravoder, Krivodol Municipality on the road I-1 Montana Vratsa, and during the period from the end of June to a few days ago all traffic in the direction of Vidin and Danube Bridge 2, and in the opposite direction to Sofia, was redirected through the settlements of the municipality of Krivodol, including through the municipal center. It is certainly that this was the only possible solution, but as a result, and especially because of the movement of heavy goods vehicles, many sections of the Republican road network on the territory of the municipality, and the streets in the municipality and the municipal center were severely compromised. The upcoming winter season and the risk for the participants in the movement impose urgent measures by the Ministry and Regional Road Management. Therefore, my question to you is: what measures do you provide for the urgent restoration of the damaged asphalt floors in the sections of the Republican road network on the territory of Krivodol Municipality and the streets in the settlements of the municipality which were destroyed due to the deviations of heavy road traffic of light and heavy-duty motor vehicles? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u168	Thank you. Madam Minister, please come in and answer the question. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u169	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ivanov, Dear Mr. Genov, the repair works on the bridge of the Botunya River at km 129+355 on the Republic road I-1 Montana "Vratsa" started on 1 August 2018 with the signing of Protocol Model 2. You, as MPs, have followed the entire process of repairing the facility and since the nature of the repairs required full closure of the first-class road, the movement has to be directed along the bypass routes that you refer to. In this regard, a temporary organisation of the movement was introduced. Those tour routes included sections of the Republican road network on the territory of three municipalities of Vratsa, Krivodol and Montana, as well as small as length sections of the municipal road network of the town of Krivodol and the village of Sumer, Montana municipality. During the municipality of Krivodol pass the following Republican roads, included in the project for temporary organisation: road II-13 Krapchene "Stubel "Stubel "Shrovodol.. Borovan.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. During the reconstruction works of the bridge facility, experts from Regional Road Management carried out systematic inspections of the entire network in order to detect defects. After the completion of the site a comprehensive overview of the road network was made of Republican and municipal. The check found local single damage to the asphalt pavement of the bypass roads. Single faults were found on road III 101, III 1302 and III 162, two rainy shafts were deformed in the town of Krivodol, one on road II-13 and one on the municipal road network. The Road Infrastructure Agency took timely action to remove them. Partial repair activities are carried out on the asphalt flooring of the affected areas of both the Republican and the street network of the town of Krivodol. Due to the deteriorating weather conditions, repairs are temporarily hampered, but they will continue under favourable weather conditions as we expect them to have. In the coming days, repairs will continue, with the indicative value of the works envisaged being 25 thousand. lv. and are provided by the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u170	Thank you, Madam Secretary. Is there gonna be a line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u171	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. Thank you also for the timely start and measures have been taken to restore the compromised areas. The worry of the residents of Krivodol municipality is great. My question was also raised by municipal councillors, and a civil signature was provoked, which I will give you later, with which people express their concern whether they will succeed before the beginning of the winter to be urgently restored these sections. Moreover, almost all the main streets of the municipal center, as a length, quite serious as a size, are part of the Republican road network. I hope that both weather conditions and the commitment of the Ministry and the Regional Road Management will be sufficient before winter to restore these parts, especially from the street network in the municipal center, and to ensure the necessary traffic safety and the necessary passage of the street network during winter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u172	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. A hole, Madam Secretary? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u173	Dear Mr. Ivanov, the repairs started at the first convenient moment after the bridge was put into operation and the movement on it was launched. On my order this week, Mr. Doncho Atanasov, member of the Management Board of the Road Infrastructure Agency, personally made a tour of all the sections along the route where the bypass routes took place. We're continuing our repairs. I hope that by the end of the year, under favorable conditions, we will use climate conditions when it allows time, and we will repair all sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u174	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question is from the MPs Dimitar Boychev and Diana Savateva regarding urgent repairs of road sections in Burgas region by the end of the year. You have the floor, Mr. Boychev, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u175	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, Mr Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is about the state of the roads from a second-class and third-class road network, which are problematic and exciting many people in the regions, especially in the more remote places where they live. There have been cases where connecting sections between two separate settlements have not been mainly rehabilitated for years, therefore, as climate conditions deteriorate, their condition becomes critical and urgent repairs are required. Such repairs are also required on roads that are normally in good condition, but they pass through landslides, collapses that are caused by climate conditions. Similar is the case with the section of the road Burgas, where there were cracks in the area of an old landslide in the area. This is basically a connecting artery, the road Burgas, Malko Tarnovo, and therefore our border with the Republic of Turkey. My question, Minister, to you is: have measures been taken for ongoing urgent repairs to both the vizied section and other sections in Burgas region, can you provide us with accurate information on the length of the currently renovated sections at the end of the year? Understand the intended means and activities to be carried out in such an emergency on these road sections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u176	Thank you, dear Mr. Boychev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u177	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Boychev, dear Mrs. Sawateva! In response to the questions asked, I provide the following information: Roads on the territory of Burgas region are taken care of within the available financial resources under the Program "Current repair and maintenance". The activities are awarded to the company with which the Road Infrastructure Agency has entered into a contract with the subject "Complete," maintenance................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In this sense, both current repairs and urgent reconstruction activities shall be carried out in accordance with the Agency's budget. A total of 4 million were invested in the current year. 558 thousand. BGN 816. with VAT for activities under the Republican Road Network Maintenance Programme in the field. Regarding the upcoming activities on the Burgas road, I would like to point out that the landslide that you have seen on the I-9 road in the area is actually the appearance of a crack and the impact of the pavement of the first-class road within the range of km 282+100 to km 282+200. No landslide processes have been established in the precinct. The location is signaled by road signs to indicate bumps and speed limit 60 km per hour. In order to solve the problem, an engineering-geological study will be carried out as soon as possible to determine the reasons for the formation of the pavement, and a project will be drawn up to remove and restore the road. These activities have already been assigned by the Agency. The funds of 20,000. lv. they're from the maintenance budget. After a completed and approved project will become clear and the value of repair and reconstruction activities. In the following year, once the weather conditions allow and under secured funding, the repair activities will be carried out to strengthen the area. Until then, the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning to re-assess the compromised pavement in order to ensure passability. At the moment on the agenda is the preparation of the roads for the autumn-winter season for which funds worth 342 thousand are allocated. BGN 839. They are underway, and by mid-December planned repair activities will be completed, including asphalt works, cold patching of pavements mainly along the following Republican roads with intensive traffic and intensive heavy traffic on the territory of Burgas region: road I-6 Sofia, road Karnobat, road I-9 border with district Varna Tsarevo road, road III-99 Tsarevo road, road III-608 border with Varna region Thank you. PRESENT EMIL CHRISTOV: Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u178	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Minister, honourable colleagues! If there are statistics, the Minister of Regional Development will have the most questions within the framework of parliamentary control and most of them will, of course, be linked to the roads of the second-class and third-class road network. For the people of every locality, these roads are important. I thank you for your specifics because you have listed at least a dozen sections in the entire Burgas region, on which either repair activities are currently being carried out or are expected until the end of the year. One of my supplementary questions is: if the poor weather conditions do not allow, will these repair activities continue on favourable terms in the coming months, at the beginning of the year, or will any other means already envisaged for 2019 be relied on? Especially for this failed section, which is on the road from Burgas, because you said that it is under investigation and only after the completion of this study will be clear the amount to be invested, could you give us a specific deadline within which to start repairs there? Is there any time limit for the study, and then to start repairing the demise of the road, because this cannot be postponed for too long? In the sections you pointed out, there is also a section for which there is a particular sensitivity, and we, with colleagues from Burgas, have repeatedly raised the question. "The internal road that passes through Strandzha and connects Tsarevo with Malko Tarnovo. The assignment for the emergency repairs was signed very soon. My question is, could it have happened, say, by the end of October, to use the good days, and exactly how many kilometers of this road would be repaired? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u179	Thank you, dear Mrs. Sawateva. Dear Minister, you have the floor for the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u180	Dear Mrs. Sawateva, dear Mr. Boychev! Several times we have had talks with you about the Tsarevo road " Malko Tarnovo." I understand your insistence. All roads, and especially third-class ones, which, according to the founding of the Road Infrastructure Agency, have the most need for repairs and are in the most difficult condition, to be repaired. Currently, the company, which has a contract with the Road Infrastructure Agency, performs repairs at banquets, waterfalls and plans on Monday under good weather conditions to perform asphalt activities. We will use the possible good days by the end of 2018 to asphalt as we have talked to you about having in a section of the road a thorough asphalting. I hope the weather will allow us and weather conditions to be appropriate. In 2019, we will continue to work on restoring the road pavement of Tsarevo road, which, as you yourself said, is important for residents of the settlements. I hope that the funds available to the Road Infrastructure Agency and those that we expect to be generated by the introduction of the electronic charging and toll system will be of a slightly larger size so that we can work not only on first-class, second-class, but also on the third-class road network in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u181	Thank you. That was the douche. Next question from the MPs Kolyo Milev and Tasco Ermenkov. Who's going to develop the question? Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u182	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members, Dear Minister! In connection with the permanent failure as a result of inappropriate and poor repairs of Republican road II-53 in the village of Byala sala city of Sliven, the site of the cave, we ask for your response to the following: what measures have been taken by the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to perform at the latest quality renovation of the landslide in the area of the cave? We asked that question to your predecessor Mr. Nankov promised to solve it, but nothing has been done yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u183	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Here you are, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u184	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Milev, dear Mr. Ermenkov! First of all, I would like to point out that the decline of the 40 m-long section of road II-53 Elena is due to the fact that it is located in a fault zone and under the road lane there are large cavities in the rocks found in an investigation done by a geological company. Due to surface water and other adverse factors in the compromised section, the road lane is constantly failing. This information was actually provided to you by Mr. Nankov during parliamentary control. To carry out research and design works API has concluded a contract with "Geoconstruction" Ltd after a procedure under the Law on Public Procurement. After providing the project development with option solutions to strengthen the landslide section of the contractor, a manifest factual error was found in the map of the restored property of the village of Byala. For the time from the previous answer to the question, the procedures have been completed and the error has been corrected. The performer, Geoconstruct Ltd., presented a technical project for the restoration of the landslide, which was adopted by the Expert Council at the Agency on 30 October this year. By 2 November, the company submitted a definitively adjusted technical design for the site in which all deficiencies in the opinion of the experts of the Agency were addressed. The Road Infrastructure Agency has applied to the Ministry of Environment and Water for grant of financial assistance under the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" with priority axis 4 "Prevention and management of flood risk and landslides." The project proposal, which is at the stage of evaluation by the Managing Authority of the Operational Programme, includes the landslide in question. The documentation is to be submitted to the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works according to the Guidelines on the order and the necessary documents for issuing prior authorisations under art. 96, para. 3 or para. 4 of the Law on the construction of the territory and issue of a permit for construction and implementation of a procedure for construction works and construction and copyright supervision. According to the adopted technical design of the site, the total value of the construction works is 2 million. 199 thousand. BGN 986. with VAT. When providing the financial resources to strengthen the landslide and carry out the necessary procedures for selecting the contractor of the construction works and construction supervision we expect the real repair activities to start next year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u185	Thank you, Madam Secretary. A line from the importers? Mr. Ermenkov will develop the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u186	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Sliven seems to be doing so well on landslides on roads that are supposed to be gone. Then you make adjustments, then these roads turn out to be roads and so on and so forth. And another trend we notice in these repairs. I will only remind the road Sliven. Ichera started with Minister Lilyana Pavlova, graduated from Minister Nikolay Nankov. Now has started a procedure with Mr. Nikolai Nankov, I hope, Mrs. Minister, it will end with you. Because Sliven continues to be a city in Bulgaria and it is nice to have the same attitude as we have to the roads in Vratsa, Burgas. Moreover, it is between these two cities and it is nice to have a normal connection between cities. That's within the joke. Otherwise, the serious thing to tell you is that this time is the shortest from Sliven through Elena to Veliko Tarnovo. Not that he's not so lively and so busy, but at the expense of that, he helps people connect more quickly. We really rely on your efficiency in solving this problem, which will also show a concern of the Ministry not only for the major roads, but also for the small roads, for the inhabitants of small towns. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u187	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u188	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Ermenkov, there are no priority areas, no priority cities, there are priority roads on principle and this is their operational state. The procedures are advanced, I hope there will be no appeals to public procurement so that the problem can be resolved in 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u189	Thank you, dear Minister. This ended the questions to Minister Avramova. We move on to the questions to the Minister of Culture Boyl Banov. The first question is from the National Representative Krasen Krastev and the National Representative Kalin Vassilev about the house museum You have the floor to ask the question, Mr. Vassilev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u190	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is about the house museum in the village of Batultsi, Yablanitsa, Lovech district. Dear Minister, we are asking you for assistance in saving a cultural monument, namely the house museum of Vasil Levski in the village of Batultsi, Yablanitsa municipality. In 2013 on an initiative supported by a number of public figures, among which Prof. Tsvetan Sivkov, Dean of the Faculty of Law of the Veliko Tarnovo University of St. Cyril and Methodius, Georg Spartanski, Mayor of Pleven Municipality, Professor Velin Argatski of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, and thanks to the then Deputy Minister of Culture Mrs. Velislava Krasteva were awarded 24 thousand. lv. for an urgent repair of the roof of the house museum Vasil Levski, village of Batultsi. The municipality of Yablanitsa received the funds and in 2014 announced a public contract for the renovation, although there was a warning to the mayor of the municipality that the renovation should be carried out as a restoration because the house was declared a monument of culture. The repairs were carried out without complying with any rules for the repair of such buildings, namely the replacement of whole elements of the house, the front boards were placed, the plates with which the house was covered were beaten and forged with nails and a number of other activities incompatible with the restoration. The renovation was also adopted with the participation of representatives of the Ministry of Culture between the change of two governments. At the moment, after four years of renovation, the museum house is about to collapse. One of the walls has broken away from the house, with a leaky roof, and no one is doing anything. Yablanitsa Municipality and the town hall of the village of Batultsi state that the renovation of the roof has been done well and does not seek the company that committed the renovation for guarantee, if there is such a clause in the contract at all, but the building will not last much longer and will soon collapse. In February there was a signal sent to the Ministry of Culture with No 94-00-196 of 5 February 2018. In May a check was carried out by the regional inspector, who by his own protocol establishes the circumstances threatening the real cultural value, namely the house museum Vasil Levski in the village of Batultsi. Confirms the above and gives the decrees of the municipality of Yablanitsa within 14 days to appoint a commission to include representatives of the National Institute for Real Estate Heritage, the Regional Directorate of National Construction Supervision and relevant historical museums; [[The President signals that time has expired.]] After repeated correspondence to the Ministry of Culture, the Deputy Minister of Culture Amelia Gesheva sent a second letter with a warning to seek administrative responsibility...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u191	Ask the question now, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u192	I'm gonna make it a little longer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u193	Time's up almost two minutes ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u194	Mr. Minister, you have the question and you will answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u195	Thank you. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u196	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Krastev, Dear Mr. Vassilev, in connection with your question, I inform you the following: In the beginning of 2018 the Ministry of Culture has received a signal about the emergency situation of the house museum. On 9 May 2018, the Directorate-General for the Protection of Cultural Heritage at the Ministry of Culture carried out a check of the place in accordance with art. 72, para. 3 of the Cultural Heritage Act for the existence of circumstances threatening the real cultural value of damage or destruction. The inspection reveals that the building is uninhabited, with rotten and fallen parts of the ceilings on both floors, damaged plasters damaged by moisture walls, broken dograms. In relation to the findings, instructions are given to the mayor of Yablanitsa Municipality to issue an order to convene a commission as required by art. 73, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act within 14 days of giving the relevant indication. The result of the verification shall be notified to the issuing person and to the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. At present no draft order for appointment of a commission has been submitted to the Ministry of Culture by the mayor of Yablanitsa Municipality, nor has a request to appoint a representative from the Regional Cultural Heritage Protection Inspectorate to participate in the Commission under art. 73, para. 3 of the Cultural Heritage Act. A check was carried out at the Ministry of Culture and it was established: by letter of 20 June 2018, the mayor of Yablanitsa Municipality asked the National Institute for Real and Cultural Heritage to broadcast a representative and to propose a date for convening a commission under art. 73, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act. The National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage has not notified the Ministry of Culture of the request made to the Institute by the mayor of Yablanitsa municipality. The examination in the legal system found that at present a reply from the National Institute to the mayor of the municipality has not been sent. In relation to the established failure to fulfil the duties of the Director of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage, an inspection by the Inspectorate of the Ministry of Culture will be carried out and disciplinary responsibility will be sought. By letter dated 22 August 2018, the Ministry of Culture reiterated its instructions to the mayor of Yablanitsa Municipality to issue an order for appointment of a commission under art. 73, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act. In the event of non-compliance with the provisions of the laws of the Member States, in the case of non-compliance with the provisions of the Member State concerned, the time limit for the granting of the relevant indication under Article 3 (1) shall not apply. 72, para. 3 for real cultural values, responsible persons in this case the mayor shall bear administrative criminal responsibility on the basis of art. 228c of the Cultural Heritage Act, which imposes a fine of 200 to 2000 BGN. for individuals. In relation to the repair carried out in 2014, the contracting authority is obliged to take action to remedy the deficiencies in the activities carried out within the warranty time limits, if any, as you say, under the current regulatory framework. After drawing up design documentation by the owner and its coordination under art. Art. 83 84 of the Cultural Heritage Act, the owner may apply for targeted financial support to carry out specialized activities and strengthen real cultural values under the Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u197	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? Here you go, Mr. Krastev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u198	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I'm pleased with the answer, I'm pleased with the timeline of what you said. I believe that the cause of saving the museum house in the village of Batultsi should be shared. I believe that the preservation of this historical site, where the Apostle's letters to the revolutionary committee in Batultsi were preserved, a printed copy of the Slavic Bulgarian history and many other museum exhibits, will continue. I guess we'll make an effort to make that happen. In the relatively medium term again, I will ask what the condition is, because today I talked to citizens from Batultsi City Hall. The house is still there, not yet collapsed. I believe that this is how we will preserve Bulgarian and Bulgarianism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u199	Thank you, dear Mr. Krastev. The next question to Minister Banov is from the MP Ivan Chenchev about the urgent restoration of the monument of Georgi Benkovski in Koprivshtitsa. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u200	Dear Mr. Chairman, thank you. Dear ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Quite normal as a member of parliament elected by 26. A multi-mandated electoral area and a member of the Committee on Culture and Media, I received a signal about the destruction of the monument, a symbol of the town of Koprivshtitsa, that of the Voivod Georgi Benkovski. The great monument of the man who gave the fatal sign was built in 1976 and since then has resisted all the whims of time, but in these 42 years it has never been restored. The 11 meters high monument represents Benkowski on a horse with a sword in his right hand. It is designed by the sculptor Hristo Tanev and the architect Petko Tatarov. It's built on five marines. However, they are today in a state that is dangerous to the population and guests of the city. On the stones are written the words of the ode "Benkovski" by the Epic of Ivan Vazov's forgotten people: "Get up, slaves!" I don't want to shit! 100 sites were found in the 100th anniversary of the April Uprising in Koprivshtitsa, which is the most significant of them. They turned the city into a cultural and historical reserve by decision then of the central government. A donation account has also been opened for the renovation of the monument, but the donations are minimal and extremely insufficient for the complete restoration. According to Monument architect Petko Tatarov she is imperative. The monument is made of granite blocks, but due to prolonged rains, then the team that puts it fails to connect the individual parts with parentheses that are flooded with lead, which is also the longest. They are combined with resin, so parallel to the old parentheses, new, fixed with lead must be placed. Not only does the monument need rapid and urgent restoration and conservation, but also the panoramic site. It could also be considered to provide better access to elderly people and children by setting up a ramp for disabled or enveloping the space around the stairs. The letters from Vazov's ode also need to be updated. All this will take about 80 grand. lv. Dear Minister, the government can show its appreciation for the time when freedom didn't cost money but cost human lives. As a member of the district of Sofia, to which a city belongs a symbol of this freedom, I strongly disagree with the history and its values to be viewed only through the shiny lens of the media during the national holidays, when we will all gather for a photo again there, in front of the monument. Questions: Is it possible for the Ministry of Culture to provide the necessary funds for the restoration of Georgi Benkovski's monument in Koprivshtitsa and within what deadlines can it be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u202	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Chenchev, regarding your question I inform you of the following: According to a reference to the National Documentary Archive of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage, the monument of Georgi Benkovski in Koprivshtitsa does not have the status of real cultural value within the meaning of the Cultural Heritage Act. The site falls within the Architectural and Historic Reserve of Koprivshtitsa, announced by a decree of the Council of Ministers of June 1971. The activities within its territorial scope are carried out according to the provisions of the Cultural Heritage Act and the legislation in force. At the same time, according to art. 14, para. 1, t. The Minister of Culture agreed investment projects for the construction, installation of monuments, monumental-decorative structures and elements in the public domain in urban and extra-urban areas, as well as their removal. In accordance with art. 12, para. 2 of the Cultural Heritage Act projects and initiatives under para. 1, t. 13 shall be agreed after a decision of the Specialized Expert Council on Fine Arts set up by the Minister of Culture, that is, after the relevant documentation has been drawn up, after it has become clear what needs to be done on what you have spoken about, a project must be made. The municipality is the owner and it has to do a project, to agree with our specialized expert council and we will look for appropriate ways for this sanctuary to finance. We cannot, by our programmes, because within the meaning and order of the Law is not a monument of culture, but could ultimately be separated and targeted funds from the state budget. The donor's account, for God's sake, let it go too. With the help of the municipality we will all make efforts together, but the first are the projects and to be clear what is needed. We need to know what it takes to make sure that this sanctum continues to exist for centuries after us! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u203	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u204	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Thanks for the answer. I welcome such initiative from the Ministry of Culture. Of course, we'll make contact. We will also talk to the municipality to really solve this problem, which also comes from the citizens of Koprivshtitsa. You know, there was also a TV show recently, which reported this serious problem. There are also foreign guests of the city and they are among the frequent visitors, especially on Saturdays and Sundays, so this danger, in my opinion, must be eliminated and everyone with the necessary degree of concern to resolve this problem. I will try, as a Member of the National Assembly, to cooperate with the municipality and with your help to resolve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u205	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. This ended the questions to Minister Boyl Banov. We continue with the questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov. The first question is from the MPs Claudia Grigorova and Ruslan Toshev on the integration of people with disabilities in the labour market. Mr. Toshev, you have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u206	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The developed legislation for people with disabilities will give them new employment opportunities and new services, but have been implemented so far in the framework of the annual employment action plans and employment measures for people with disabilities. The question is: what employment was provided in 2018 under these programmes and measures for people with disabilities?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u207	Thank you, dear Mr. Toshev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u208	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Gancheva, dear Mr. Toshev! The National Employment Action Plan is an operational document adopted annually by the Council of Ministers and outlines the priority target groups of active labour market policy, the amounts of funds and their allocation by project, by programmes and measures to promote employment. According to data from the Employment Agency for the 9 months of 2018, unemployed persons with permanent disabilities decreased by 727, compared to the 9 months of 2017, and the downward trend in this group has been reported since 2015. National statistics also show a positive trend in the reduction of the unemployment rate and an increase in the employment rate of disabled people. As a result of the active labour market policy carried out in the previous three years, a positive trend of growth of employed registered unemployed persons with disabilities was highlighted on both the primary labour market and those involved in subsidised employment. The total number of unemployed persons with disabilities employed in 2015 was 8179, in 2016 were 10,407 and in 2017 were 10,742 persons. In 2018, unemployed persons with permanent disabilities were also included as a priority target group of active labour market policy according to the National Plan. For the 9 months of 2018, more than 5400 disabled persons started work with the mediation of the Employment Agency and more than 1800 of them were involved in subsidised employment. In 2018, the following programmes, encouraging programs and measures for people with disabilities are implemented: firstly, National Programme for Employment and Training for people with permanent disabilities. It is aimed at providing employment for unemployed persons with permanent disabilities registered at the employment desks as a prerequisite for overcoming their social isolation and for their full integration into society. Priority is to include persons with and above 71% reduced performance, military disabled, persons with sensory disabilities, persons with mental disabilities and so on. Employers open jobs under the Programme for a period of 24 months. Priority shall be given to those employers who have entered into a financing contract under art. 25 of the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities and on Access to Jobs, as well as the adaptation and/or equipment of Jobs for Persons with Disabilities. Traditionally, the interest in the National Program is the occupation and training of people with long-term disabilities. It is extremely large because employers declare jobs because of full funding, which covers the risk of limited physical capacity of individuals and their frequent absences by sickness, and unemployed persons with disabilities appreciate it highly because of the 2 years of employment and safe income provided, which for the majority of them is the only opportunity for employment. Since the beginning of the year, a total of 1639 people have worked under the Programme. Secondly, these are the incentive measures under the Employment Promotion Act. In the order of art. 36, para. 2 employers are encouraged to employ unemployed persons with permanent disabilities up to 29 years of age and under art. 51, para. Art. 2 and Art. 2 52 The employment of unemployed persons with permanent disabilities, directed by the full-time or part-time employees of the Employment Agency, for which amounts are allocated to the employer for the time during which the persons have been employed, but for not more than 12 months. Since the beginning of 2018, the measures of the Employment Promotion Act have provided employment to 314 people with disabilities in total. They can also be included in the other programmes and measures of the National Employment Action Plan, which are implemented for all registered employees. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u209	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Grigorova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u210	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! I would like to thank Minister Petkov for his in-depth answer to the question and I would like to remind him of some facts. For people with disabilities in 2013 at the time of Oresharski were allocated and respectively spent 189 million. lv. In 2018, these funds were 263 million. lv. The 2019 draft budget sets out an increase of 150 million. BGN, which is an increase of 55%, and the total amount amounts to nearly 415 million. lv. At the same time, the legislation concerning people with disabilities is being improved, namely the Law on people with disabilities, the Law on personal assistance, the Law on social services and regulations. I sincerely hope that in 2019 this large amount will be more equitablely distributed on the basis of improved regulations and that it will reach every disabled person on the basis of his individual needs through an individual assessment of his condition. All these actions of the government testify that the problems of people with disabilities are the main priority of the government of Borisov 3 and that it will continue with concrete measures and events and with increased funds to achieve a decent life for these people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u211	Thank you. We continue with the next question to Minister Petkov. He is one of the MPs Galya Zhelyazkova and Dimitar Gechev on increasing the prices of energy sources and the measures taken by the state to ensure what is necessary for vulnerable groups of people. You have the floor, Mrs. Iron.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u212	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! We are witnessing the trend of increasing energy prices as of October 2018, and this increase affects the entire commodity chain in the country. Undoubtedly, this will affect a large part of the population and, above all, the most vulnerable groups. For this reason, my question to you, Minister, is: what measures will you take to ensure better social protection for the most vulnerable groups of the population in the country in order to limit the adverse effect of increasing energy prices? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u213	Thank you, Mrs. Iron. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u214	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, the increase in electricity prices and other energy sources is a factor that puts the social protection system to a serious test. This is most sensitive to people with low incomes. Based on the analysis of the financial opportunities and forecasts for the dynamics of the economic processes affecting the system, more than a 15% increase in the guaranteed minimum income has been realised since the beginning of the year, thus extending the scope of the supported persons and families. In addition, appropriate action has been taken to improve the target energy support system. The amount of aid increased so that by reaching BGN 74.83. monthly, to compensate for the increase in electricity price from 1 July this year. A mechanism is introduced to automatically compensate for the increase in pensions in accordance with the Social Security Code in order not to make it a reason for dropping out of the programme of pensioners who received the aid. In this regard, another additional measure is being implemented to support those most deprived of the adverse effect of the increase in prices of energy sources and their impact in the new higher prices on the commodity chain. On 21 November this year, the government decided to provide additional financial support of 100 BGN. to all persons and families granted target heating aid for the current heating season. The choice of the target group is not accidental. The beneficiaries of targeted heating aid are the most extensive group in the social assistance system, which includes persons and families with the highest risk of inability to satisfy their essential vital needs without the aid of the State. According to the latest data of the Agency for Social Assistance at the beginning of November this year, when the deadline for submission of applications expired, the total submitted 250 157 applications and declarations for the granting of target aid for heating were issued 208 697 orders for granting the aid, with this figure expected to reach 210 000. All these people and families will receive this amount of 100 BGN in December and the necessary organisation in the Social Assistance Agency has already been established. I would like to point out that the Government's decision to grant this lump sum explicitly states that it is not included in the income for determining access to other rights under the Social Assistance Act, the Family Aid Act for children and others. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u215	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, colleagues! I will take this opportunity to thank the Minister for his reply because he shows the determination of the state, in the face of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, to be in need of people, to exercise flexibility and to take additional measures to help people in need. Exactly those extra 100 leva. are very relevant and will be able to help people cope with the increase in energy prices. We should also not miss the fact that a double increase in funds is at stake in the 2019 Budget Project, and it will be around 40 million, which is also a good step the government takes to address this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u217	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. This was the last question for Minister Petkov. Thank you for your participation in the controls today, Mr. Minister. We continue with questions to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov. The first question is from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Stoilov concerning problems in the implementation of contracts concluded by the State Fund.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You have the floor, Mr. Stoilov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u218	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Minister, during the period of adoption of documents under the school milk and school fruit schemes, a lot of changes were made. Those changes were also introduced with requirements for schools and new criteria for applicants. In addition, it was entrusted to the State Fund for Agriculture for the application of a professional choice of applicants where the directors of the educational establishments did not comply with the criteria for selecting suppliers under the scheme. These changes created a lot of noise and tension among all interested parties in the measures. Our questions to you are: what is the number of candidates in school delivery schemes for school fruit and school milk? How many of these suppliers have been designated by the State Fund for Agriculture under the relevant schemes? What is the reference date for the submission of information on the volume of production of farmers and is an update allowed until the deadline for submission of tenders? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u219	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoilov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u220	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, esteemed Mr. Stoilov, for 2018 under the scheme "School fruit" 211 applicants with requested 3516 educational institutions, from which a choice has been applied for 2237 educational institutions falling in 141 applications for approval. According to the scheme, the School milk and school services applied for 156 applicants with requested 3476 educational establishments from which a choice was applied to 1552 educational establishments falling within 129 applications for approval. The State Fund shall apply the business choice to an institution and not to an applicant. In the event that the educational establishment has failed to comply with the criteria laid down in the Ordinance on the conditions and procedures for the implementation of schemes for the provision of fruit and vegetables and milk and milk products in educational establishments, the State Fund shall apply the intended requirement to conduct a service choice of supplier. The amendments made on 20 June this year to the Ordinance introduced criteria for the selection of an applicant by educational institutions. Thus, a uniform order has been established in the implementation of the school scheme and all educational establishments wishing to participate in it through their supplier need to comply with the same provisions. One of the requirements for producers of fruit and vegetables participating in the selection of an applicant by the educational establishment is to provide an up-to-date survey card to farmers under Ordinance No 3 of 1999 establishing and maintaining a register of farmers certified for the relevant business year until 10 April. The Regulation also provides for farmers to process at least 2,5 hectares of area occupied with at least two types of fruit or vegetables eligible for distribution under the scheme. The production volume is not subject to control within the meaning of the applicable regulatory framework and no information needs to be provided by farmers to demonstrate the quantities produced. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u221	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Professor Bachvarova, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u222	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! What you have provided us as information is interesting from the point of view that the official decisions of the State Fund..... are much more than those who have chosen or who have offered the schools themselves. As you can see, the problems with the choice of suppliers continue now in terms of the fact that the schools themselves cannot and do not want to agree with these business distributions. For a reason, the question to you was related to what is the reference date? The reference date, you say, is April 10th, but we have data on one of the companies that she has won in over 100 sites for fruit and vegetables delivery. This company has updated its card for several months to become a leader in terms of criteria and to be chosen accordingly. On January 23, this company has 214 decares, of which very few fruits and vegetables, but by July 2 it updated its plums with half decares, no, even plums are 500 squares, pears are 3 decares. After all, it wins in office, because it has the whole range of fruits that are required by the Fund of Agriculture respectively, and receives these contracts for service. Therefore, the question and our desire is to comply with the regulatory requirements: when it is said April 10th, then there should be no compromise and should be accepted accordingly with the advantage of these companies. I'm going to give you the information and I really want an objectivity. Perhaps to consider the interference and the business commitments made by the State Fund................................................................................ Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u223	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. A hole, Mr. Secretary? No. We continue with the next question to Minister Porozhanov. He is from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova on the financial situation of the Agricultural Academy. You have the floor, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My question concerns the current financial situation of the Agricultural Academy. Basically, I constantly ask questions about how the Academy is developing and what are the opportunities for its development, not only survival. In April 2018, the Agricultural Academy Act was amended. I dare say reforms have been undertaken. They led to changes both in the management of the institutes, but also to a greater extent concerning the state-owned enterprises, the creation of a state-owned undertaking, despite the operational autonomy of those who entered that undertaking. At this point, the information I have is that the restructuring of the Academy has not yet been completed in terms of the implementation of the Law. One of the questions that we are interested in is: how far has the restructuring reached and is the state enterprise, respectively, functioning at present? The other issue relates again to the financial situation, we are talking again about April before the Law enters into force. Many of the institutes had received under the single payment schemes the funds owed to them on an area, respectively. At this time most of the institutes at the Agricultural Academy have not received these funds and they do not have them. I've been trying to find out what's causing it. The Agricultural Academy explained that no funds were received from the Ministry, i.e. before the reform. I'm not sure who's telling the truth. Therefore, the question to you is: have the funds for single payment been transferred to the Agricultural Academy, has it spent them, provided them to the institutes, as they are significant as funds and enable them to cover current alimony of enterprises? That's basically the question I'm interested in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u225	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u226	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, first of all, one summary response. The financial situation is improving, and you know it. From 1 April 2018, the Agricultural Academy has been an autonomous budgetary organisation with the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry under the new Agricultural Academy Act. The Academy shall draw up, implement and report a budget as part of the consolidated fiscal programme under the Public Finance Act. According to the Transitional and Final Provisions of the New Law, four experienced stations of state enterprises and two experimental bases whose assets and liabilities and other rights and obligations pass to the Academy are included in the composition of the Agricultural Academy. On July 31st of this year, the new Rules of Procedure of the Agricultural Academy was published. It ensures compliance of the structure and organization of the work of the Academy with the current provisions of the Law. The restructuring issues in terms of financing and management, as well as the structure, organisation and activity of the new state-owned enterprise, are settled in detail. On 1 August this year, a new official and roll-call timetable for restructuring the central administration entered into force. The regulations on the structure and activities of the scientific centers and institutes of the Agricultural Academy are being adopted by the general meetings, as well as official schedules, and many of them have already been approved by the President of the Academy. This will end the structural reform provided for in the Law. At present, the financial system of the Agricultural Academy has been completely reorganised as a top executive with the budget. In accordance with the provisions of the new law, the Ministry of Finance has made a change in the uniform budgetary classification for this year, creating an individual code of the Academy and structured it as a primary system in the SEBRA. The granting of a limit on the right to expenditure to the Agricultural Academy is carried out by the Ministry of Finance, not as previously, by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The financial condition of the Academy is good, regular salary of staff and the current maintenance of the activities of the scientific institutes and centres are paid. As of October 31, this year, the Ministry transferred the Academy to the amount of 9 million. Fifty-fifty thousand. lv. The overdue liabilities on 31 October this year amounted to 739 thousand. lv. As of 1 April the included state enterprises in the structure of the Academy with overdue debts of 519 thousand, including salaries and social security of 131 thousand, these liabilities are currently repaid. Under the Public Finance Act, the Academy is included in the system for centralised payment of insurance contributions and taxes, which are reported through the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. There are no mandatory social contributions and taxes due to insurance funds and the National Revenue Agency. The funds received by the Institutes under the SPS and translated into the new accounts of the Academy after 1 April shall be phased out by the institutes and centres. To date, funds have been paid out at a rate of 1 million. 662,000. lv. The funds centralised at the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry before 1 April amounted to 1 million. $150,000. BGN, from them until now at the Agricultural Academy were restored 1 million. 60,000. lv. and are used for the operational activities of institutes. The remaining funds will be recovered by the end of November lv. From the date of entry into the Commercial Register, the state enterprise [[the President signals that time has run out]] of the 16 state-owned enterprises, experienced stations. An application for entry into the Agency of the State Enterprise was submitted in September but a refusal was given until further documents were available. The required documents have already been provided and a new application has been submitted. The legal deadline for entry expires on 26 November, as there is no feedback on the problem with documents so far, we expect registration by 26 November. At present, state-owned enterprises with outstanding liabilities of 956 thousand. BGN, with only three state enterprises having no obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u227	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u228	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! My request is that the funds provided and paid under the ESP to the Agricultural Academy on 1 April be checked if they have been transferred to the Academy. The Academy's management claims that these funds have not been translated and therefore the chain institutes have not received them, and as you have said, these funds cover current obligations that are important, given that if they are not covered in the next budget, it takes much more effort to implement them. With regard to the State-owned enterprise, the amount of EUR 1 million is estimated at EUR 1 million. lv. obligations, even though there are also a lot of unpaid insurance or unpaid salaries, a serious amount. It seems to me that this undertaking will be in an extremely difficult situation, starting from November or December, because at this stage state-owned enterprises operate under the old law. It is no coincidence that I am putting the issue to the present moment because the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria is to be voted on. In the draft budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry it is written that the funds provided for the Academy are about 25 million. These 25 million are extremely insufficient, given the fact that only the Fund of Work is 28 million. lv. My appeal is to make sure that these funds are provided, as otherwise the obligations plus the limited budget will create prerequisites for difficulties in the functioning of the Academy to cover the most elementary needs. That is my appeal and the purpose of the question that I have asked at this time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u229	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u230	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova, for your recommendations. Only a few numbers in addition: as you know, after the transition to financial autonomy, the Agency can now accumulate its own revenue, which by the end of October alone is 11.5 million. versus 10 million. 200,000. about last year. They are expected to pay back their 15 million income. lv. by the end of the year. So with the transfer they have, set in the following year, and the revenues that I am convinced will grow because they launched their financial autonomy much later than the middle of the year, they will have this opportunity. As you know, there is already an increase in the salary of the staff precisely from those additional revenues that they manage to accumulate. I confirm to you that the rest of the subsidies under the SPS are only 90 thousand. lv. and they'll be cleared by the end of the month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u231	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Porozhanov is from the National Representative Irena Anastasova about the problems of milk delivery in schools in Sofia under the milk and milk products scheme in educational institutions. You have the floor to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u232	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Minister, colleagues! On a previous question, Mr. Minister, you explained that the problems in the supply under the scheme are non-essential and are solved and only 55 schools in the country have given up participation. After your reply about a month ago, I was literally flooded with signals not for problems, but for serious violations of supply requirements, such as: disruption of schedules; delivery of low quality products, such as sour milk, molded cheese, double labelling; milk produced in Poland by Bulgarian producers, of course; fat of 3.2% at the required fat 2%. Time doesn't allow me to spell it out yet. The signals are from all over the country from Sofia, Sliven, Varna, Yambol, Haskovo, Montana and other districts. People were sending me pictures and descriptions of the violations. I also received a call from many fellow directors that, as a result of such irregularities, they have given up supply because they are not sure about the health of the children, and they bear this responsibility for an hour's notice, not to say, every minute. In order not to think that I am inventing, I will quote you, for example: "Dear Mrs. Anastasova, the approved supplier of milk and dairy products for our school is a Haskovo company. That's not a problem. The problem is that the milk was refused to be stored in the refrigerators of the school chair; they refused to pay rent to the chair manager, with which I had a five-year contract and rent. I wrote to the State Fund and refused to participate in the School Milk Program. We made it a lot of directors. I used the rejection letter that was given to us. I am sorry to deprive children of milk and dairy products, but I refuse to be responsible for the quality of foods that are not according to the requirements. Time does not allow me to read you many more addresses to me that have been made. Therefore, I expect your response with particular interest, namely, does the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forest have information about the alleged unacceptable violations? What measures will he take or what measures will he take? What are the sanctions for the violators companies, because it became clear that during the period when I dealt with this issue that the changes that were made in the Regulation were made so that three companies are currently suppliers in 2300 of 2600 Bulgarian schools. And if it's not a monopoly, I don't know what he's told.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u233	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u234	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Anastasova, the numbers are definitely not correct. If you think there is a monopoly, refer to the Commission for Protection of Competition, you obviously have enough information. Look at the monopoly situation, but the numbers you refer to as number of service I mentioned earlier, there is no such monopoly. The system for offering fruits, vegetables, milk and milk products in kindergartens and schools in the country is applied in accordance with the Ordinance. In accordance with art. 4, para. 7 of the quoted regulatory act The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency controls the safety and quality of distribution under the product scheme and the fulfilment of the specific requirements provided for therein. The State Fund of Agriculture as an implementing body of the Food Safety Executive Agency shall conclude an agreement on cooperation in the control of distributed products. In order to verify the obligations of the providers of the Fund Schemes, the Fund shall carry out periodic on-the-spot checks together with representatives of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Checks are two types: planned and on alert. If, as a result of the checks, the supplier is found not to comply with its statutory delivery obligations, the State Fund of Agriculture shall have the right to refuse, in whole or in part, payment of the financial assistance of the supplies concerned, and to order suspension or withdrawal of the supplier's approval. On October 30, 2018, two signals for damaged products were sent to the Regional Food Safety Directorate (Sofia). Immediately checks have been carried out at those sites. In relation to the non-compliance identified, an act of prohibition, a record of custody and a protocol of destruction of raw materials and foodstuffs of animal origin has been drawn up and served. The Regional Food Safety Directorate (Sofia) has notified the Regional Food Safety Directorate (Safety Directorate) Vratsa about taking action in competence with the manufacturer. The examination of milk processing establishments showed that during the production of the two lots of products, the milk production of 2% and the lots used before 10 November 2018 and another batch before 12 November 2018, the control-critical points were respected during all stages of the process. For distribution to children's establishments, the refrigeration mode for delivery and temperature of the product was 2 degrees. In accordance with art. 44 of the Food Act: Whoever produces, trades or imports food in the country that does not comply with the requirements of the Law or the implementing regulations, if it is not subject to a more severe punishment, is punished with a fine of 1000 and 2000 BGN, and when performing between two and four thousand BGN. For a violation committed by a legal person or a sole trader, a financial penalty between two and four is imposed and a repeated penalty of between four and six thousand BGN. In accordance with art. 4, para. 5, t. 2 of the Ordinance, the responsibility of the educational institution is to ensure the acceptance and verification of the products they provide it and to document the quantity and quality established by drawing up a reception-transitional protocol. In order to implement the scheme, it is necessary for all those involved in the implementation chain to be responsible and to carry out their functions jointly and appropriately. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u235	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u236	Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Mr. Minister, I assume you know what you're saying. You're actually telling me that everything was done according to the Regulation. Therefore, your regulation sucks, and I will tell you why? In a word, I'm not happy with that answer. But you owe another answer, not so much to me. Look, we're really ruining a good idea. And most importantly, you owe a satisfactory response to fellow teachers, to the directors, you owe a parent's response to all these irregularities and violations. I'm not talking to you about something I made up, I'm talking to you about something I've seen with my own eyes, and that's why colleagues from the country come to me all the time. You owe them answers! Because with the way this regulation was created, and with the way these supplies are implemented, you put the school manuals in a toupik. You assign them obligations to establish quality of food. How do they find it when there's sometimes one nurse who's four o'clock, and you don't know if she's there at the time of delivery, or if she's at the other school? With what specialists should they determine the quality of the food? And you assign them duties along with all their other endless duties. I think, as a summary, it is obvious, first of all, when delivering milk and dairy products to the institutions there are serious problems. Secondly, a large part of these problems are laid down in the regulation itself, which, not in my opinion, but according to lawyers, lays down certain lobbying texts. Thirdly, when preparing the Ordinance, the specific conditions, order and organisation in schools and the situation in school life are not taken into account, if there is any, the control over the activities of the companies. I'm not the one who's talking about the facts. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] In my opinion, which I will end, you have a lot more work to do, because otherwise, I repeat, you are compromising the good idea, which I want to tell you that it started with much less problems a while ago than those you created in the last two years, namely: you have to do checks, you have to carry out continuous control...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u237	Thank you, Mrs. Anastasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u238	...and once and for all make the necessary changes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u239	Your time is long gone.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u240	It's very important, Mr. Chairman, that in the regulation...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u241	I gave you almost a minute.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u242	...taking first into account the interests of children and taking into account the order and organization of activities in educational and childcare institutions, and not the wishes of manufacturers and suppliers, they were also Bulgarian. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u243	You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u244	Thank you. It is undisputed that from the first day of the amendments to the Ordinance you have declared yourself against the Bulgarian producers, with declarations and with everything. There's nothing complicated about the scheme itself. Yes, priority was given to the Bulgarian producers. There is also a manufacturer and supplier in many places, there are joint schedules. From the principals of schools or the people they have designated, no one wants to do a quality analysis in any way. There is a reception-transitional protocol that must be made from the point of view of the receipt of the goods, if there is a visible discrepancy, even of the fruit, if they are not in good condition. You know how dairy products are made. Yes, there were two cases in Haskovo, and in these cases we marked, in the specific cases for deliveries in Sofia. But why not ask the question: did this happen from a storage point of view? I suppose you know that we added the option to the Ordinance because there was definitely a reluctance, definitely said... unwillingness from certain educational institutions to make deliveries from other people from whom they are used to making their deliveries. I think you know that very well. I'm not going into the household element here. It has been done everything possible to compromise the process in any way and together with the former suppliers who were in these establishments. That is why we added to the Ordinance the option to allow for logistical costs within the eligible additional, accompanying costs which are eligible under the Ordinance, to hire a person to distribute or when storing products when made. The relevant amendments have been made. You may have a lot of signals that you get in one way or another. I want to tell you that there is no such information in such a dramatic element here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u245	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Porozhanov is from the MP Yordan Mladenov on the spread of avian influenza. You have the floor, Mr. Mladenov, to ask the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u246	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, 2018 is turning out to be a tough year for the livestock industry in Bulgaria. In relation to the emerging outbreaks of influenza in the country, the killing of nearly 1 million birds, the protests and concerns of people involved in the industry that they will be left without sustenance Bulgaria from an exporter of poultry and products could prove to be a major importer. Dear Minister, I would like you to give more clarity: how many cases have been registered since the beginning of the year until now; how many subsidies have been paid to those affected at this time; what measures has the Ministry of Agriculture and Food taken in relation to the disease so widespread? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u247	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u248	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Mladenov, first of all, I would like to thank you for being the only one of your colleagues who called me "respectable"! 23 outbreaks of avian influenza have been observed in Bulgaria since 2006. In poultry, the disease first appeared in 2015. In 2016 the Commission adopted an action plan for the implementation of the Union's macro-financial assistance for the period from 1 January 2016 to 31 December 2016. "Twenty-four, in 2017" " 53" and this year, "26 outbreaks." The affected industrial farms are a total of 20 this year. The total number of birds in all farms concerned is over 1 million, with 91% of them on the hen farms. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has taken a number of measures to limit and eradicate avian influenza in and around sites with established avian influenza A genome. The situation control strategy introduces measures aimed at preventing early detection and avoidance of further spread of the infection as follows: increased conservation measures in farms, increased number of official veterinary inspections to verify their proper application, closed poultry farming, increased laboratory control in each poultry holding or in particular: sampling for serological samples in poultry aged 56 days; hatchings The risk areas are Plovdiv, Haskovo and Stara Zagora. Movement of birds in and from the protected three kilometers and the surveillance 10 km zones shall not be allowed only in the case of exceptions prescribed in the legislation. Repupulation of the previous infected farm is not permitted using sensenal birds, namely hen birds, which are extremely susceptible to the virus and would show clinical signs in the presence of infection, and at the same time in the production of a hale on the farm according to the instructions of BABH. Of course, within six months of cessation and the so-called farm break, where all disinfecting events for which two positive antibody or virus results have been obtained within 12 months must be made. Since the beginning of this year, a total of 104 prescriptions have been issued, 23 administrative violations and 50 prohibited acts have been drawn up. So far, the results show that the circulation of the virus continues to exist in poultry farms. The main reasons for the occurrence and spread of avian influenza are: breakthroughs in the biosecurity of farms; birds in the open air; breakthroughs in the biosecurity during their transport, as well as the high density of water birds in certain areas of the country. There were 556 cases of disease in wild birds in Germany in 2017 and only 68 in poultry. Statistics in Bulgaria show the opposite. Numerous outbreaks in poultry and a limited number in wild birds. For 2018, we have positive results for highly pathogenic avian influenza in wild ducks. For compensation to owners for the forced destruction and death of animals, destroyed raw materials and food of animal origin, feed materials, feed additives and feed additives and inventory related to the disease, all that is described in the Animal Health Act has been paid up to 4 million. 430,000. lv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u249	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u250	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Minister, despite your actions, the disease continues. The accusations by poultry farmers that these measures are not effective enough, especially in the strictness of state control, are also frequent. In my opinion, you should collect the industry more often and make common decisions on how to deal with this problem, which is clearly continuing and will continue next year. We'll be watching from here on out for any action you take. I also had one specific question, if you could answer: is there any outstanding funds in helping poultry farmers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u251	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. The word for the doppelganger, you have Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u252	Thank you. Dear Mr. Mladenov, I agree with your finding. Actions have been taken, but are not effective enough. This is also my pressure on the Food Safety Agency. Soon there was, as you know, a certain tension. Within the stricter actions to be taken, especially in water birds, because, as you know, water birds have the opportunity to carry the disease with lower mortality, while the hen mortality is close to 100%. One of the findings was that the control of bird-watching in the open air, the ban on bird-watching in the open air was not strictly respected. In this respect, of course, as with regard to movement, as with regard to the fact that when sampling, where antibodies are found, where a disease of birds is found, immediately, as I have already told you, there are more than 50 applications, there are a lot of farms that have to do their disinfection, and then start their work. I am convinced that there is much more to be done, for which is also my goal and the desire for pressure on the Agency. They haven't calculated the latest bird disposals in the last month. They're not included in that 4 million. The protocols are still in the Food Agency, I can't give you the last one, but there is. They will be paid as soon as they are calculated. As you know, 75% of the funds, here is in a special way of compensation, we declare them and receive them through the DJ Santé. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u253	Thank you, dear Minister. The next question to Minister Porozhanov is from the National Representative Christian Vigenin concerning an order of the Minister, with which the National Diagnostic Research Veterinary Institute was designated as the National Reference Laboratory for the Plague of Small ruminants days before the disease was declared in Bulgaria. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mr Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u254	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, honourable Members of the National Assembly! By your order, Mr. Minister, from 6 June 2018 the National Diagnostic Research Veterinary Medical Institute "Prof. Dr. Georgi Pavlov is designated as the National Reference Laboratory for Small Cattle Plague as the national reference laboratory for small ruminants. Ten days later, samples taken from establishments shall be submitted to the laboratory and the basis for the sampling shall be suspected. On 19 June of that year, positive samples were announced, confirmed several days later by the European Union Reference Laboratory, Sirat, France. Perhaps as a detail to note that on the day of the issue of your order in Sofia, within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency of the European Union, a seminar is held precisely for the plague on small ruminants, where the main lecturers are the experts from Seerat. In my previous question to you a few weeks ago, I noted that there are some interesting coincidences which I hope with your reply today you will clarify, and in particular what are the grounds for issuing this order, which amends Order No RD 09-941 of 23 November 2016 to Minister Desislava Taneva? Also, has NDNIVMI been through a certification procedure? If not, does he have the right to conduct such research? Were blood samples of small ruminants tested prior to the order of June 6th for small ruminants plague on small ruminants without a designated National Reference Laboratory? If such studies were carried out, was such a practice lawful? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u255	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor for an answer, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u256	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr Vigenin, after the referendum on Britain's exit from the European Union, where was the European Reference Laboratory for Especially Dangerous viral Animal Infections at the Institute for Animal Health to the City of Perbright, by Decision of the European Commission No 212/2017. This is 7 February 2017, as a Community reference laboratory for small ruminants plague, the laboratory was designated in the city of Montpellier, France. I would like to point out that until then there was no independent European Union reference laboratory for this disease, and it was in the composition of the foot-and-mouth disease laboratory of the said institute in the town of Perbright. That Decision established the responsibilities and tasks of the laboratory in Montpellier and led to amendments to Annex 7 to Regulation of the European Community No 882/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council concerning the designation of reference laboratories for the Community and national reference laboratories. The decision requires Member States to designate their national reference laboratories following a specific procedure. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The Executive Agency is the only body in the Republic of Bulgaria entitled to carry out accreditation of testing laboratories certifying their competence for the activity. I would like to point out that accreditation is a voluntary act under the Law on National Accreditation of Conformity Assessment Bodies. National reference laboratories at the National Diagnostic Research Veterinary Medical Institute, Sofia, as defined by Order No RD 09/2016 of Minister Taneva, are accredited, including the Laboratory for foot-and-mouth disease and swine vesicular disease referred to in paragraph 1. 2 point (b) of the Order, which carried out the small ruminants plague studies until the decision of the European Commission. Studies on exotic and especially dangerous infections in Bulgaria have always been carried out only in this institute since its establishment in 1901. So far and most natural it was the new National Reference Laboratory for the diagnosis of small ruminants plague to remain with it due to the tradition, qualification of the personnel and, not least, because this laboratory is specially equipped and holds a higher class of biosecurity than the other laboratories. Initially, a request was sent to all Member States by the European Union's newly designated European Union reference laboratory for small ruminants plague in Montpellier for participation in an inter-labal comparative test in June 2017. Bulgaria's participation was confirmed and the test was carried out in August 2017. A special working meeting in November 2017 announced the results of the ring test, which for our laboratory were 100% comparable to expectations. It thus fulfilled the first condition of Regulation No 882/2014. Its recognition as the National Reference Laboratory. I only open the clamp that these are the blind tests.. without knowing what the disease is sent to the reference laboratory of the Member States, and based on the answers they provide, this certification is issued as a reference laboratory. In December 2017, experts from the laboratory took part in a specially organised course for the diagnosis of small ruminants plague organised by the European Reference Laboratory in Montpellier, which was placed as an additional requirement for national reference laboratories. In January this year, the Institute took the necessary steps to formalise its status as a national reference laboratory with a change of Minister Taneva's Order. Following additions and proper coordination, the order of 6 June 2018 was issued. The national reference laboratory for small ruminants plague at the institute has successfully undergone certification stages and is entitled to carry out ELISA and PCR tests as it has covered the requirements of the European Union reference laboratory for the diagnosis of small ruminants plague. I would like to point out that research has been carried out prior to the issuance of the Order, according to the trilateral programme for the supervision of cross-border animal diseases in the 30km border zone between Turkey, Greece and Bulgaria. This practice is perfectly legal because the Bulgarian laboratory has been recognised for decades as an equal and equal partner of the Turkish and Greek reference laboratories. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u257	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u258	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. It does, of course, make a few references to the technology in which the certification steps have been taken so far and, accordingly, the designation of the National Diagnostic Research Veterinary Institute as a reference laboratory for small ruminants plague. It may indeed be a coincidence, perhaps not the fact that, literally ten days after it has been designated as a reference laboratory by you, according to a report prepared by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, it is discovered, according to the results of laboratory studies, the plague on small ruminants. Without drawing any unnecessary conclusions from what I have collected as information, I would still say that you as a minister may be worth looking at the measures that the European Commission has provided for Member States in relation to the control of these diseases. Here, I have a report from a working group. "The priorities of veterinary programmes for the period 2018 - 2020.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In 2017 Bulgaria received in connection with the Decision of the European Commission grant for emergency measures to combat exotic diseases in Bulgaria in 2017 and 2018 worth 1 million. 131,000. 824 euros. Based on what happened after the first measures that the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency took, and the fact that somehow the plague on small ruminants in Bulgaria proved to be different in comparison to all other cases so far, remains the doubt that the appearance of the plague at the end of June may also be related to the programme of the European Commission for the fight against exotic animals and the fact that the plague on small ruminants is one of the diseases for which, even then, there will still be an additional amount of funds, beneficiaries of which will be both structures in Bulgaria but also indirect structures outside Bulgaria. I do not want to go into more detail, as I continue to gather information on this issue, but perhaps you as a minister could learn a little more about all this because the Bulgarian society continues to look for the answers to what happened in June, what happened afterwards and why in such an inexplicable way events have developed since then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u259	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. We continue with the next question to Minister Porozhanov. He is from the National Representative Nikola Dinkov and is about the problems with the purchase of grapes in 2018. You have the floor to ask the question, dear Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u260	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! In the autumn of this year, large quantities of grapes remained unearned in the vineyards in the municipalities of Topolovgrad, Svilengrad, Lyubimets and Harmanli, Haskovo region. There's never been such a problem before. This is the only livelihood for much of the villages of Sakar Mountain and the lower river of Maritsa. According to farmers' accounts, the quantity of unpreserved grapes amounts to more than 700 thousand. lv. People are very concerned and in an extremely difficult situation. Unelected grapes will also lead to much higher costs in carrying out preparatory events for next year. It is commented that one of the reasons for this collapse in the purchase of grapes is the illegal imports of grapes from Macedonia, Romania and other neighbouring countries. In addition, during this period, the purchase of wine grapes was closed one of the major wineries in Karnobat, which during the previous years purchased large quantities of grapes in the area of these municipalities. My question to you is: what measures will the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry take to protect the native production of grapes in order to buy the crop produced in 2019? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u261	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u262	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Dinkov, as a whole the ugly campaign 2018 took place normally and according to the country's forecasts. Minor quantities of grapes remained unbought due to poor quality as a result of adverse weather conditions and non-application by some producers of the necessary agritechnical and plant protection events in the vineyards. At present in the country the purchased wine grapes from wine enterprises is 152 million kilograms. In the district of Haskovo in 2017, 12 million were bought. 630,000. kg and 14 million were bought in 2018. 270 thousand. Or close to $1 million. 640 thousand. kg more than the previous year. The vine and wine executive agency has taken a number of measures to ensure the smooth running of the vintage campaign, namely wine producers can produce wine from grapes purchased only by registered grape producers who have certificates of origin for wine grapes. In connection with the registration, the Agency organizes exported offices in a number of settlements, including in the area of Ivaylovgrad, where more than 400 vintage producers wishing to sell their grapes to registered wine producers were registered. In the grape arrays, reception stations and wine cellars there was increased control by the Agency. With the assistance of the structures of the Ministry of Interior, the campaign for buying grapes on the principle was provided either directly between grapes and wine producers. The aim was to prevent unregulated buying-in of grapes without a certificate of origin of grapes certified by the Agency and the introduction of unauthorised raw materials and materials in the production of wine. All processing establishments on the territory of the country were inspected and rigorous checks were carried out on the means of transport carrying the grapes. No violations of the sector's legislation have been detected during checks on alerts on citizens. The checks in Haskovo region have not established buying-in by wine-growing enterprises, imports from Romania or other European countries, which are generally allowed within the European Union. Also, no imports from third countries have been established from outside the European Union. Under the Wine and Spirit Drinks Act, grapes from third countries, such as Macedonia and Moldova, cannot be revised in wine products or added to such products within the territory of the European Union, including Bulgaria. Upon receipt of each batch of wine grape imports, the Customs Agency shall notify the Agency of the wine on the basis of which inspectors from the Agency shall track the lot from the exemption to the final product in order to comply with the requirements of the Law on the exemption of the security lodged. During the vintage campaign 2018 no imports of grapes from third countries were found in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. Such imports would not be profitable for producers given the need to lodge a special guarantee of 30% of the value of grapes and the prohibition on the introduction of products originating in the European Union. With regard to border controls, the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency also closely monitors the implementation of all regulations and regulations in intra-Community trade and imports. The cultivation of dessert and wine grape varieties is associated with a significant risk, as production is influenced by many climatic and so on changes. Through its local structures, as well as through the territorial units of the Executive Agency for Vine and Wine, in addition to controlling the activities of the producers of grapes and wine, the Ministry also provided information support. Such information shall include the ability of grape producers to benefit from measures relating to the common organisation of agricultural markets of the European Union. These measures include the possibility for producers of both table and wine grapes to establish a producer organisation and producer groups. This would allow for easier negotiation and realization of production and negotiation for a better price, as among the main objectives and tasks of the producer organisation is to assist its members in planning and adapting production to market demand. Other opportunities for wine grape producers is to benefit from support under the National Programme for the Support of the Wine Sector 2019 - 2023, the Rural Development Programme, which is currently completed, the new programme for the wine sector, amounts to 126 million. EUR allocated over five years, with the first receptions starting at the beginning of next year. Of course, I agree with you on the difficulties in buying out the Vinprom Karnobat who have formed. There was a temporary tension because a lot of production was being exported to there as a sale. But I would like to assure you that with the efforts of the Vine and Wine Agency, from which I have been reported twice a week, whether there are problems and where they are, we have managed to direct many of the producers, as I said, both logically, to register and buy in certain places. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u263	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u264	Dear Minister! With statistics on the quantities of grapes produced in Haskovo region, I agree. They were even better this year, and they were good because there must have been good preparatory events in order to produce such a harvest. I also agree that producers should be organised in larger associations and organisations in order to be able to participate more easily in the negotiations and in the preliminary negotiations for the purchase of grapes. But there is one crucial point here that we need to pay attention to. I think the role of the state is in the context of the convergence of the regions, as you know that the region of Sakar Mountain is an area that is poorly developed, and this livelihood for people, for many of them, is the only one. My question thus asked should also be a signal to the Ministry for the next year in this area to be paid more attention so that people do not remain deceived in what they are dealing with and that this production can be realized so that they also have certain incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u265	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. The next question to Minister Porozhanov is from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Jeleva about the epizootic situation in Haskovo region. You have the floor, dear Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u266	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Minister! In Haskovo District in recent weeks there has been a severe epizootic situation. The problems come from established outbreaks of avian influenza and the plague of small ruminants. In the village of Voyvodovo, Uzundzhovo, Garvanovo, Malevo and in the Dimitrovgrad village of Vrbitsa and in Haskovo itself more than 140 thousand feathered animals have already been eradicated. There is a ban on transport and trade in sheep, goats and products which are produced by them. What is the actual state of the sheep plague situation? Are there outbreaks or just doubts about their existence? Accordingly, what measures are being taken by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency? The problem of bird flu has become chronic and despite the implementation of the requirements of the producers and the instructions of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, the eradication of this business continues. What measures will be taken for the benefit of producers and do you think that the guidelines implemented are sufficient to stop the disease? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u267	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u268	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Dear Professor Bachvarova, Dear Mr. Dinkov, Dear Mrs. Jeleva! As regards the small ruminants plague. A few questions intertwine these topics, perhaps I will repeat myself from time to time, for which I apologize in advance. As regards the small ruminants plague. In view of the outbreaks detected and the additional serological surveillance carried out, the European Union has imposed a ban on trade, movement and transport of small ruminants and a number of conditions for the marketing of products derived from them. The ban initially affected the territory of seven municipalities, but later it was extended and covered the districts of Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo. The epidemiological situation in place has required an amendment and an addition to the current preventive programme against certain cross-border animal diseases, including small ruminants plague. By 21 November this year 24 thousand and 300 samples were taken from 417 establishments located in the three districts. From the samples tested, 256 responded positively to antibodies. By the end of November, research will be carried out on another six thousand samples, with the total number reaching nearly 30 thousand. The results of the supervision carried out will be formally presented to the European Commission and later jointly analysed and taken appropriate measures. You know, at the moment, the Commission's decision is on restrictions imposed until 20 December. The aim of the Ministry, respectively through the Agency, will be to persuade the Commission to drop these restrictions from November 20th. We currently have some visions for certain activities that are within the framework of the decision, but are allowed by other European acts to take action for their earlier implementation. As regards avian influenza. A total of eight outbreaks of avian influenza have been observed in the Haskovo region for the period 17 October this year, of which: outbreaks, poultry holdings, mullari, chickens, laying hens and turkeys, and on a private holding. The Bulgarian Food Safety Agency has taken all measures under the legislation to limit and eradicate avian influenza in and around the sites where the avian influenza A virus is established. The owners of the animals killed will be compensated according to the requirements of the Animal Health Act. The situation control strategy introduces measures aimed at preventing early detection and avoiding further spread of infection as follows. Here they have described to me all the measures that I have just listed in relation to another question of my colleague Mladenov. If you want, I can do it again. There are certainly many things to do with avian influenza. Many meetings have been made for both species of water and for the hen species. The truth is that a significant part of the producers do not respect the control measures sufficiently. At the moment we have a phased closure of farms where there are positive antibodies, because the infection basically starts from the waterers, where they manage to carry the virus and survive this virus. I'm starting to repeat myself from the previous answer. If any additions... But in general, the situation in Haskovo region in terms of these two diseases... It is more worrying for me here that avian influenza should be very closely monitored all the prescriptions, that there should be biosecurity observed by producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u269	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? You have the floor for a line, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u270	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! We are grateful for the answer and our aim was to pay attention to what is happening in Haskovo region, because as a border region almost all animal diseases happen so that they go and are realized in Haskovo region, which the business suffers from. Before we asked you the question, we tried to obtain information, especially about the small ruminants plague, from the Regional Directorate of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. After we were transferred between different management levels, they finally said they weren't a training organization. So we're not going to get any information on how many outbreaks, antibodies or anything else. That's why we're asking the question to you. But you, in June, when the sheep plague began and was established, said there was a serious communication problem between the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency and those who suffered in the area respectively. In our view, this communication problem continues to exist and in places those employed by the Agency rather implement standard procedures lead some statistics, but are not for the benefit of farmers. I hope that this thing will be corrected for the simple reason that many people suffer, many farmers who do not have information. Today you say that by December 20th you hope for the sheep plague accordingly to have a positive solution, but they do not know it and there is no one to tell them. Our other proposal or desire is to pay particular attention in these border areas, if there are to be mobile teams, if there are to be specialists to monitor the implementation of surveillance measures. Again, the Food Safety Agency said he couldn't handle the bird flu, but he didn't say why. Accordingly, what will be different from the measures taken so far, apart from registering deaths and restrictions that unfortunately concern a business that will then not be able to be restored in the situation in which these people work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u271	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. We continue with the next question by the National Representative Christian Vigenin, it is about insufficient support for farmers from the municipality of Bolyarovo, whose herds were liquidated by the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. You have the floor, Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u272	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, with a series of orders of the management of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency in several villages of the municipality of Bolyarovo, dozens of flocks of sheep and goats were eradicated. Restrictions were imposed on the movement of animals, trade in meat and milk in three areas, resulting from the inability of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency to respond adequately to the complex situation with the pest of small ruminants. The owners received one-off benefits for the animals killed and limited additional aid. At the same time, there remain a number of problems with which they face the inability to start rebuilding the herds before the end of the year, which means for many of them and zero 2019, without having income continue to pay social security, which the government plans to significantly increase in 2019. Participate in European projects on which they may receive sanctions or have rented pastures, which are likely to lose due to lack of animals and so on. It's a really complicated situation. Here I will add that they are practically abandoned, they are not receiving any information and they do not know who to turn to all over this circle of problems. Of course, they are addressing their MPs and we are trying what we can on this issue, but there is no way to replace the administration. I would like to clarify that today we had a meeting with representatives of livestock farmers from the region. Thank you for your understanding, for having responded to the invitation to meet with them, but it is still nice to hear what we have commented and perhaps something more now in the framework of parliamentary control and in particular what additional measures to support the owners who have lost their herds in the municipality of Bolyarovo are you planning to implement? What support measures will you offer to farmers from the three areas to which the restrictions have been imposed. " Burgas, Yambol and Haskovo? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u273	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u274	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vigenin, I would also like to thank you for the meeting you had today and for inviting me to. A little more information. Decision No 954 of 2018 of the European Commission on the prevention of the spread of small ruminants in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria extended the scope of the specified safeguard measures. As of 8 October 2018, the other municipalities from the districts of Yambol and Burgas and the whole district of Haskovo took part in the restrictive measures. The measures provide for the processing and distribution of milk and milk products from small ruminants only to take place in the territory of the same area. In this regard and taking into account the restrictions imposed, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, following the European and Bulgarian legislation, took various measures in nature aimed at compensation and support for the livestock farmers affected by the disease. First of all, farmers whose sick animals were destroyed to prevent the spread of the disease received benefits calculated by species and categories of animals. When determining the benefits, the market price, weight of the animal and its breeding value shall be taken into account. This formed two types of benefits for goods, which ranged between 130 and 350 BGN. and for animals under selection control, which ranged from 220 to over 600 BGN. In addition to the compensation for the animals killed, the farmers were also assisted in connection with the lost benefits of unrealized production of milk and fruitage. In view of the initial restrictions for certain municipalities, a decision was taken to support under the rules of European law in the field of State aid by means of de minimis minimum aid in the following directions: First, the injured farmers in the 3-km restricted zone of the municipalities of Bolyarovo, Elhovo, are the seven municipalities, and the five municipalities of Burgas, prohibiting the removal of animals to grazing, as well as the trade in raw milk, which is currently in operation, were compensated with minimal de minimis aid for the lost benefits of the implementation of primary agricultural production sheep and goat milk during the period of the prohibition of the lactating period of sheep mothers and goats mothers. The rates were formed on the basis of an estimated unrealized residue of raw milk at an average market buying-in price. It should be noted that farmers whose animals are euthanized and have, respectively, suffered missed benefits from the implementation of agricultural production from the date of euthanisation until the end of the lactating period, are also included in this group. For the injured farmers with a warrant issued for the observed 10-km zone in Yambol region, namely Yambol, Stralja and Tundzha, with a one-week ban on the sale of raw milk, were also compensated for the missed benefits of the implementation of primary agricultural production. Thus, the real support they have received is respectively: in the 3 km zone. for one sheep mother, and in the 10-km zone for a mother sheep and a mother goat, respectively. At the moment, given the seasonal nature of the reproduction of sheep and goats, farmers do not suffer major losses from unrealized production, namely raw milk and fruits from the restrictive measures introduced to limit the spread of the disease. The dairy productivity of animals will only be resumed at the beginning of this year. For the longer lactation period in the goats, opportunities for the implementation of the produced raw material are provided. In relation to the force majeure and the restrictive measures introduced for the processing and distribution of milk and milk products, farmers who have requested participation in the tied production scheme for support for sheep mothers and goats under selective control for the 2018 campaign will receive the payments due to them for the animals available prior to the occurrence of the force majeure event, and they do not need to demonstrate with documents the implementation of a quantity of milk or dairy products. At the same time, under the transitional national aid scheme for sheep mothers and goats related to production, the amount of payment for eligible animal campaign 2018 is BGN 39,60. Farmers from the affected territories who have requested support under this scheme received the first tranche, namely BGN 19,80, the second tranche will be received in January. With regard to pastures, meres and meadows from the State and municipal land fund, measures will be taken to preserve the leases and leases of the animals affected by the epizoote so that they can be compensated for the adverse consequences of their holding. Thank you for the conversation we had. I think that a similar force majeure algorithm after the order has been dropped for up to three to five months, to allow for a population that can meet the requirements for pastures, we will put it in the Ordinance. At present, permanent monitoring of animals from the affected areas shall be carried out by conducting clinical examinations, blood sampling and testing of antibodies against small ruminants virus. I've written a lot of other things here, and I'm starting to repeat myself. Of course, with regard to farmers who would like to make a settlement in the areas where the animals were euthanized, next week with Deputy Minister Ivanov we will arrange a meeting with representatives of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency at the DG Santtes, so that we can take advantage of the texts listed in the Directive and transposed into the Ordinance, which are a little heavier in the decision on restrictions. So let's try to save some time before the decision falls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u275	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u276	Thank you for your comprehensive answer, Mr. Minister. I myself have also been in a similar position, and I know that a person, unwittingly, gets a little bit out of reality, starts to speak in one language, which is quite incomprehensible to the vast majority of people, let alone to people in a place who can never really understand exactly what they're talking about. However, I would offer you, despite what you said today, it seems to be insufficient, as direct conversations with people show a slightly different picture. Here, if one listens to your answer, one will think that the horn of abundance has poured over them and, right, what else do these people want?I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, Indeed, first of all, I think that there should be a more direct contact with the affected people, as they themselves are not to blame for the decisions of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, whether they are adequate or inadequate.Now this issue does not imply any comments on this subject, I have my opinion, but nevertheless these people need assistance, support, they need someone to direct them what they should do from now on. It is also nice for people who make decisions at both the highest level here in Sofia and in the district departments to come into contact with these people, to have some human conversations and to try to help them. I see an attitude of administration, which seems to be getting stronger over the last few years, if they can not bother them, somewhere they make big decisions, and people on the ground have to navigate the whole process. On the contrary, I am of the opinion that the public administration from the Prime Minister to the last employee are there to serve the people, to be useful to them and to try to help them, not to approach them with a certain annoyance and the situation happened, and from now on..... get better!............................................................ So I am really counting on it from now on to think about this mechanism, which we were also talking about at the meeting, and now, about which you said, I am surprised that so far this is not proposed, but I would also like some indicative deadlines to give, in which you might consider proposing something like this, along with possible measures regarding the Law on the Bulgarian Food Safety, there is no time for its functioning, now in detail to comment, as it seems to me that you yourself are experiencing some difficulties to coordinate or to follow and propose a solution to the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, we with our colleagues from BSP for Bulgaria and from now on will turn directly to the Prime Minister, as he appoints the Director of BABH. It seems to me that the political responsibility for the actions from now on can no longer be sought only at the level of the Executive Director and Minister, but should be in this role to engage the Prime Minister, as the situation is complicated enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u277	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u278	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vigenin, perhaps my own exhibition was a little more complicated, that's how they write them in the ministries, unfortunately. In no way was I intended to present a horn of abundance. The truth is that there are many schemes that support livestock and any other industry in agriculture, I can even complement, but this is not the topic now. I agree with you that we should work in the service of the sector and of the people and I strive for this to happen in my ministry. Yeah, we can't be between them all the time, because we have a lot of other things, but communication between district and municipal services needs to be strengthened. So I accept the recommendation that you have made and, of course, with regard to these things about pastures and other things that require a change in legal documents, they require their technological time because of bureaucracy, if you want to start them in time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u279	Thank you, dear Minister. The next and final question to Minister Porozhanov is from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Christian Vigenin about the fence along the land border with Romania, built to prevent the passage of wild pigs into Bulgaria. You have the floor to ask the question, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u280	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Our question with colleague Vigenin is related to the effectiveness of the fence for crossing wild pigs in Bulgaria. On August 28th, you announced that the construction of the fence along the land border between Bulgaria and Romania was completed and its main goal was to stop infected feral pigs from entering the country, and also to prevent the transfer to Bulgaria of African swine fever. It is known that there are extremely many outbreaks of swine fever in Romania. In the beginning of November the first case of wild pigs infected in the village of Balgarevo was officially announced. Later, there was also information about other villages. Our questions to you are as follows: First, what is the value of the facility? Is it guarded, and if so, by whom? Because there are already compromised sections of the facility, at least by information I have, and it's from the media. Are the means to enable it to be maintained and who is responsible for the performance of these functions? One important issue is also: has the European Commission been informed of the construction of the fence? Is this part of the recommendations that the European Commission has provided or required for prevention of African swine fever? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u281	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. You have the floor for an answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u282	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Bachvarova, dear Mr. Vigenin, the subject of African swine fever is very, very serious. Already in the early spring, we analyzed the economic losses that would be made in the sector of swine farming, because it is a disease that is not zoonosis, it brings economic losses in the countries where it exists. We've done this analysis further you'll hear the numbers as the effects of losses in the industrial pig industry, of course, and generally. This was somewhere in April, but already in May very quickly the plague started from the northern border of Romania after the first outbreaks were in Hungary, and suddenly it appeared, evidently with the tourist flow across the Danube Delta, and very quickly began crawling towards Bulgaria. I therefore submitted a detailed report to the Council of Ministers on the problem of African plague with the damage it would have done to the economy, especially to the pig industry and agriculture, and, respectively, to the measures to be done. Then I received a carte blanche and an option to introduce a decree to provide additional costs. Within these additional costs, detailed in the financial justification, the details of the financial justification, diagnosis, feral pig-related costs, prevention and disinfection are detailed, of course, and the cost of the fence. I'm going to read some information because I think it's important. By Decree No 130 of 2018 the Council of Ministers has been allocated additional funds under the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to ensure the implementation of measures to prevent African swine fever. The Decree provides for activity No 5.. Control of the movement of pigs, for the construction of a facility at the land border for which funds of 600 thousand have been allocated. lv. under the budget of the Forest Executive Agency. The costs and payments made by the Forest Executive Agency for the construction of the facility and the repelles are total of 612 thousand. BGN as follows: expenditure of 512 thousand has been incurred for the facility. BGN, like here in these costs besides the fence, this is the cleaning of the skirt itself. You should know that during the preparation of the fence of 133 km, it also took us a little time, and the entire area along the border was cleaned, especially where it was in the forested and crossed area, there were made the appropriate sections to be able to carry out this construction work, if we can say that this is a construction activity... for this fence. Totally paid by invoices and contracts are 350 thousand. £626. The difference of 19,000. lv. is an additional purchased reserve wire from the Regional Forests Directorates Ruse and Shumen. The purchased repellents are worth 82 thousand. lv. For the purchase and delivery of the spiral network with cutting-top type The total value is 622 thousand. lv. excluding VAT, including: 616 thousand. lv. for the purchase of vests and 6200 lv. for her transportation. These costs are allocated among the six state-owned enterprises under art. 163 of the Forest Act under my order of 16 October 2018. The funds spent by the state-owned enterprises to purchase and supply the spiral network with cutting-top type "Bruno" amounts to 622 thousand, as I mentioned. Or total expenditure for the Executive Agency and state-owned enterprises amounts to 1 million. 358,000. lv. with VAT. The length of the land border between the Republic of Bulgaria and Romania is 133 km. The forest inspectors, employees of the Forest Executive Agency and its structures in the performance of their duties shall walk the constructed facility. Every day, how can I say, patrols to call them Ladha Niva are passing through certain sections to see if there is a compromise on the fence. On the day, measures are taken for her recovery. At present, no additional funds have been spent, provided or allocated for the maintenance of the facility. For this purpose, a spare wire has been purchased and will be used if necessary to restore the integrity of the facility. The fence along the land border with the Republic of Bulgaria was built on the basis of my order of 25 July 2018 as a measure to prevent African swine fever. The construction was carried out as a result of decisions taken by meetings of the Coordination Council for the Prevention of African swine fever, again established by my order of 23 July 2018, as well as decisions taken at the meeting of the Council of Ministers on 25 July. At present, the Republic of Romania is the most affected country of African swine fever in the European Union. Over 1,000 outbreaks have been recorded, resulting in the killing of over 400,000. Pigs. The spread of the disease through feral pigs is out of control and the most affected areas are along the Danube Delta. Many pig farms have been affected. The compensation for preventive killings of animals amounts to tens of millions of euros. I have to tell you that just as we were able to finish the fence, we also put the cutting tape on it, right at the moment we were ready, the first outbreak of 600 meters from the border near the town of Silistra appeared. In our country to date, only three outbreaks of African swine fever have been observed in feral pigs and one in domestic pigs. No pig farms were affected. When comparing the spread of the disease to this in the Republic of Romania, it is apparent that the facility has played its positive and preventive role, namely, limiting the passage of feral pigs across the land border, resulting in a delay in the entry of the disease on the scale found in neighbouring Romania. On the border, you could easily see the path by which feral pigs are moving, whether to eat in certain areas or drink water in certain places. The trails of wild boars were there even when we walked. Separately, many farmers from Romania were accustomed to letting animals graze on the territory of Bulgaria, so the passage of sick animals and, more precisely, spreading the disease, could not have happened without making such a fence. The largest pig complexes are protected where 93% of the pigs in the country are concentrated. In the industrial farms located in Northern Bulgaria, the most risky region, the amount of investments invested in the construction and equipment together with the value of the animals amounted to 352 million. lv. Without taking a measure to build the fence as part of the Plan for the necessary measures to prevent the occurrence of African swine fever, losses in the pig business, direct and indirect, on a national scale would reach the indirect over half a billion leva. Despite the aggravated epizootic situation with regard to African swine fever in Romania and the risk of penetration and spread of the disease within the territory of Bulgaria from June at a distance of 50 km from the territory of our country for more than three months, the disease has not been admitted at this time. The European Union Strategy for African swine fever, SANTE 7113/2015, the European Commission recommends as part of the disease prevention measures, the construction of fences to prevent the spread of the disease for both domestic and feral pigs. Such fences have already been built by Hungary and the Czech Republic, and Denmark is also building a fence there much more massive and much more expensive. The construction of the fence is discussed on every Permanent Committee on Plants, Animals and Food, to which Bulgaria is a member, to the European Commission, and is provided as information. There is no particular requirement to inform the Commission, but information has been provided through participation in that Committee. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u283	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Vigenin.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u284	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thank you for being so generous to Minister Porozhanov and giving him the opportunity to speak at least three times longer than he is under the Rules of Procedure, but I think these topics were important. Pointing questions: Mr. Porozhanov, you said that the fence goes around every day. Tell us if the forest enterprises are ordered to maintain this fence, as there are already compromised areas in our records. We ask you this question because we have received information that the fence itself is built with wooden stakes that are pine, with very low endurance. Maybe a year, two at most to make it, and maybe this fence should have a longer horizon of life, because this disease will hardly be overcome in a year or two. There is also the question, you did not comment in particular, are these measures coordinated with the European Commission, with the Directorate of Food, Animal and Plant Crisis Management? I ask you this question because when I was in Brussels about a month and a half ago, I met with the director of the Bernard Van Goeten Directorate, there is no reason not to quote it, who said that according to their assessment the European Commission's disease cannot be stopped by fences. For this reason, they do not recommend the construction of fences and do not finance the construction of such fences with European funds. If someone does, they probably have their own arguments. Perhaps it is nice, based on the experience we have and which, I hope, will be continued for the coming months, to communicate what Bulgaria has achieved through this fence and the European Commission, because it may be, although such recommendations are not made, such fences to do the work. So maybe you could clarify that, too. Here again is the issue of compensations, I mention something that perhaps colleagues will ask as a question next time, let us say in the first outbreak that was announced in Tutracantsi. Then it turned out there was no disease there, but animals were killed, and there were those that turned out to be unregistered. I know how complicated it is, but in the end, people without the plague were killed by their animals. Perhaps we should consider some more adequate approach of the Food Safety Agency. More carefully to be approached, to confirm the samples and so on. With particular regard to this, once again, the supplementary question: who has been entrusted with the maintenance of the fence; is there such an order, and does the European Commission, to date, believe that these are appropriate measures to deal with the disease? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u285	Thank you, dear Mr. Vigenin. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u286	Thank you. Dear Mr. Vigenin, I cannot agree with your finding that there was no plague in Tutrakans. I do not wish to comment on this statement. The reference laboratory in Madrid also confirmed the result of our reference laboratory. Saying such a thing, you know why you do it, I don't want to comment on it. But in this particular case, the plague in Tutrakans has been established. Yeah, there were nearly 80 pigs destroyed there. They were neither registered in the Vetis system nor as establishments, which is why there is a formal problem for them to be compensated. Yeah, we can think about compensation from another point of view in some other way, but that's a completely, totally different subject. With regard to the fence, I assure you that the fence plays and played a very positive role. With regard to the protection of the virus, it is a complex of measures to be taken. Yeah, he's hard to protect. It is no coincidence, you know, that disinfecting has been restored at each of the border crossings above northern Bulgaria, first, along the land border. It is no coincidence that the products of all truckers were seized by tourists who passed from Ukraine, Moldova, Romania, all countries with a very serious spread of the disease. It's not a coincidence that there are bio-security measures. This is a complex of measures that just needs to be done. We do not participate in the meetings of this Standing Committee to confirm what and how it has been commented, but I would like to assure you: I do not know if there is a warrant, in principle the fence is on both sides, or, in particular, the three territorial RFGs that are along the border. Given that the budget resources of the RFG are not sufficient, the approach is made with the help of state-owned enterprises. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-23.u287	Thank you, dear Minister. This was also the answer to the last question to Minister Porozhanov for today. Thank you for participating in the parliamentary control. The next extraordinary plenary session is on 27 November 2018, Tuesday, at 1300 hours. Abandoning session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
