ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u1	There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, today is the first Wednesday of the month and this is why the program is formed by proposals of the parliamentary groups according to the order of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We have a proposal from the Parliamentary Group on the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. It is the first in line this month. This is a Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the compulsory deposit of printed works and other works. Exporters: Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Velislava Krasteva on 6 February 2018. There are no proposals from the political party's parliamentary groups.Volja............................................ and the political party GERB. There is a proposal from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. This is the first vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017 There is no proposal from the group of the United Patriarchs. This morning at the Conference of Presidents, colleagues, we have decided that three additional points will be entered, so we are handing you a new Programme of Work for the National Assembly. It's this: 3. Draft Decision setting out the Commission for the Auditing of the Court of Auditors' Annual Financial Statement for 2017. Importer: Budget and Finance Committee on 29 June 2018. 4. First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. Importers: Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment. Importer: Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018. Adopted at first vote on 13 June 2018. 6. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Exporters: Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018 7. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Administrative Procedure Code. Importers: Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017. Adopted at first vote on 22 June 2017. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 8. Draft Law on ratification of the Agreement on Reputable Consulting Services for Assistance of the Road Infrastructure Agency at the introduction of the National System for Electronic Charging of Tolls in Bulgaria between the Road Infrastructure Agency and the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Importer: Council of Ministers on 7 June 2018 9. Draft decision for early termination of the powers of Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov as member and Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs on 29 June 2018. The first point for Thursday, 5 July 2018 10. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Special Investment Purpose Companies Act. Importers: Delyan Dobrev and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018 Point 2 for Thursday, 5 July 2018 11. First vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Integration of Persons with Disabilities. Importers: Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 29 June 2018 Point 1 for Friday, 6 July 2018 12. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Labour Code. Importers: Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs on 13 June 2018. Adopted at first vote on 27 June 2018. Point 2 for Friday, 6 July 2018 13. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Environmental Protection Act. Importer: Council of Ministers on 21 May 2018 14. Parliamentary control. Please vote. They voted 188 MPs: 152, none, abstention 36. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 27 June 2018 to 3 July 2018: Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on direct participation of citizens in state power and local self-government. Exporters: Andon Donchev and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. It is also allocated to the Commission on interaction with NGOs and citizens' complaints. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Integration of Persons with Disabilities. Importers: Svetlana Angelova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. A bill for the word organization and the activities of psychologists in the Republic of Bulgaria. Importers: Kalin Popovski and a group of MPs. The Committee on Health is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Education and Science. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Culture and Media is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on excise duties and tax warehouses. Importers: Menda Stoyanova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling. Report on the implementation of the budget of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017. Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Health. Annual activity report of the National Health Insurance Fund for 2017. Importer: Council of Ministers. It's been assigned to the Health Committee. Draft decision for early termination of the powers of Ivan Nikolaev Ivanov as member and Chairman of the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. Importers: Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Republic of Bulgaria and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the avoidance of double taxation in respect of income taxes and the prevention of tax evasion. Importer: Council of Ministers. The Committee on Budget and Finance is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Foreign Policy. Personal assistance bill. Importers: Plamen Hristov and a group of MPs. The Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-government and the Committee on Budget and Finance. Draft decision on the adoption of an updated investment cost project "Acquiring of a multifunctional modular patrol ship for the Navy." Importer: Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Defence Committee and the Budget and Finance Committee. Report on the activity of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2017. Importer: Court of Auditors. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance. Messages: In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the passage through and residence in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that it has authorised: The residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria for the period from 7 July to 25 July 2018 including those of the Army of the Republic of Macedonia Special Operations Force for participation in the joint Bulgarian-American training. Forces and funds from the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria will participate in the preparation, as well as transport planes with the necessary equipment for service and provision, and US Air Force soldiers with the necessary equipment and equipment. The preparation is carried out in the implementation of the Plan for joint Bulgarian-American training and training in the country and abroad in 2018 and is not related to the conduct of military operations, preparatory actions to conduct upcoming or alleged military operations, as well as to the implementation of activities to prevent military actions conducted by others, to another country or organisation, armed forces. From 12 to 24 July 2018, including the residence on the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria of the Submersible Water Management Group of the Republic of Bulgaria, the entry into the inland waters and the visit of the port of Burgas to ships belonging to the Federal Republic of Germany, the Republic of Turkey, Romania, the Kingdom of the Netherlands, the French Republic and the Hellenic Republic, of ships belonging to the Republic of Burgas. The visit of the ships is of a non-military nature and is related to their participation in the National Teaching of the Naval Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria with international participation. The notifications were received on 28 June and 3 July 2018 in accordance with Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011. No. 803-09-39 and in. No 803-09-40 and granted to the Defence Committee. In the performance of art. 65, para. 1 of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informs the National Assembly that the Council of Ministers has adopted a Decision amending Decision No 181 of the Council of Ministers of 22 March 2018 authorising the participation of up to 16 servicemen of the composition of the National Mobile Information Systems Module of NATO, with their personal weapons and equipment, by the armed forces of the Republic of Bulgaria in the NATO mission for preparation, advice and assistance in Afghanistan. The President of the Republic of Bulgaria has also been informed in accordance with the provisions of the Defence and Armed Forces Act of the Republic of Bulgaria. The notification was received on 2 July 2018. No 802-00-35 and granted to the Defence Committee. On 2 July 2018, a letter was received from the Minister of Energy presenting a copy of Decision No 447 of the Council of Ministers of 29 June 2018 repealing Decision No 250 of the Council of Ministers of 2012 repealing Decision No 259 of the Council of Ministers of 2005 on the designation of the energy facility of the nuclear plant of the site of Belene and Decision No 260 of the Council of Ministers of 2005 on the construction of the nuclear plant of the site of Belene. The decision was adopted in implementation of the National Assembly Decision of 7 June 2018. We move on to the Programme today.. The proposals of the parliamentary groups under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. Here you are, Mr. Siderov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u2	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I feel obliged to respond to Mr. President Radev's statement yesterday, as he made very critical remarks to the government's work during our presidency. As chairman of the group of the United Patriarchs, we are involved in this government, and I cannot fail to respond to Mr. President's critical remarks. I specifically printed six pages of text "very serious volume," this is almost a thesis in which I found a text immediately, as I am an old editor, logical internal contradictions, that is, if this was an article that was offered to me for my newspaper, I would reject it with advice on editing and editing. Where's the first contradiction I'll tell you right away. In one of the paragraphs, Mr. Radev says that, I quote, one of the conditions that goes that way is that this could lead to the closure of the European Union itself. This is something that I have said many times, and I am glad that he repeats some of my words, but follows the criticism of the government that it makes it so that the Bulgarians move away and hesitate from the European idea. And I ask: at the same time, how should the Bulgarian nail him to the European idea, if we are going to break up, we are going to close down the European Union?! There is a contradiction, but perhaps the one who wrote these paragraphs with a four-and-five-page difference has forgotten what he wrote at the beginning. These student mistakes are understandable. I know they write his lyrics to people who are quite a beginner in journalism. They've got a lot to learn. The other criticisms Mr. Radev makes are that we have not raised the issue of the Danube Strategy, which is beneficial for Bulgaria, because he and the Romanian President had discussed this issue. Someone should tell Mr. President that the Presidency of Bulgaria does not imply anything more................... that it prohibits the questioning of the country concerned,.............................................................. This is prohibited by the regulations and practice of the European Union. We are presiding, which means organization, good household and logistics, what is needed for all meetings. Nothing more. It's alphabetical truth, and I think anyone who deals with this subject knows that. That is, we cannot, during the Presidency, ask ourselves our own questions and say: "Let's move them faster, because we are presidents now. " - No. That's not possible. This criticism of the president is incorrect. Another criticism in which he raises the question of why we have not asked what is this group for the military response group up to nine countries, what will this group do and so on. I agree. Yes, we can ask, and we need to ask, all the questions that concern military interventions, as this is a very, very important topic. I will immediately link the President's statement and criticism to the fact that he, on the same day he made his statement, met with the American ambassador. Why hasn't he asked him why, Mr. Ambassador, your country has received four military bases since 2006, with a bilateral treaty, with an annex to this treaty, in which there is a clause that Americans can import whatever they want into these bases, and we have no right to control?I've read the contract. I got it. I'll give it to anyone who wants to meet. Why didn't the President raise this important issue if he was concerned about our attitude on military issues with any partner country? He didn't plant it. So, double standards. Another question related to the Western Balkans. [[Strength noise in BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u3	Colleagues, please be quiet! Mr. Pawnov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u4	The Western Balkans was a topic Bulgaria had set, however, was not enough. At the same time, the issue of migration has emerged and it has silenced this topic, said Mr. President. So how do we impose on Brussels which topic should be the first? Obviously, the issue of migration was very important. It was placed at the summit. The Bulgarian government in the face of the prime minister set very important requirements that were heard and adopted for the first time in Brussels. Bulgaria raises questions about closing the border of Europe, about exporting refugee camps outside the European border, about not returning those who have gone to the transit countries. These are extremely important points which for the first time Bulgarian Prime Minister puts them at a summit. Instead of receiving a commendation from the Head of State to say: "Bravo, at last these questions have been raised, our Head of State is looking, as it is said, to criticize this policy, which is simply not correct. It is not state-owned because all of our partners in the European Union have said that our Presidency is an example that it has been conducted properly, that so far in our face they see one of the best presidencies. I conclude with the conclusion that the criticisms of yes, a president can be critical of the government's work, but when there is reason, there is no basis in this case. I'll finish with a word of advice to Mr. Radev. He certainly has qualities. Undoubtedly, he is developing as a politician and statesman, but he needs to think very seriously before going into criticism about whether he is making trendy attacks and whether he is entering a party line, which is not acceptable for a head of state. That's all I can say. The rest at Sunday school. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u5	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. We shall continue with the proposals of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure. Proposal of the DPS Parliamentary Group: on the basis of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we propose to be included as a point in the weekly program of the National Assembly for the period 4 July 2018. Draft No 854-01-5, submitted by Delyan Peevski, Yordan Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Velislava Krasteva on 6 February 2018: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE DEPOSITION OF PRICE AND OTHER PROCEEDINGS. Here you are, an importer's opinion, as we have no reports. Here you are, Mrs. Krasteva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u6	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues, honourable MPs! In our motives to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the compulsory deposit of printed works and other works, we are referring to the following. The proposed amendments and additions are in two main guidelines. Firstly, the introduction of a requirement for mandatory disclosure by media service providers of their actual owner and the way of financing. The definitions used in the proposed draft for a media service and a provider of a media service shall have the meaning of those under § 1, item 1. 15 p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p.m. p. 16 of the Additional Provisions of the Election Code. The amendments are logically related to the published cash number 87 from 2010 of the Official Journal of the Republic of Bulgaria, which provide for obligations for the periodical and printed works produced in the Republic of Bulgaria to be published information identifying the real owner of the publisher. Publicity in the ownership and financing of all media is a matter that has been repeatedly put to the public domain, but has not yet found its regulatory regulation. The creation of a legal obligation to reveal the actual owner of media service providers, and these are newspapers, magazines, online media, news agencies, radios and televisions, and the way of funding, will lead to maximum transparency on the media market in the country, as well as public awareness of the editorial policy of the media, which is supported in a non-market way, will minimise the possibility of manipulating public opinion by media existing not because of revenues from its activities, but thanks to free corporate or foreign funding. The proposed amendment will also lead to the disclosure of the actual owners of online news media in Bulgaria, which form a significant part of the information flow, respectively the attitudes of users of media services, but the ownership in the majority of which remains completely anonymous. The adoption of this bill will contribute to the final intersection of speculation about the ownership of media in Bulgaria, which is heavily exploited, including by the media, producers of false news, financing opaque, serving corporate interests and their owners, which distort the media environment and violate the principle of freedom of speech in Bulgaria. On the other hand, the Bill introduces a requirement for mandatory disclosure of information identifying persons who distribute and/or sell printed matter and the number of end points used by them for sale. The access of citizens to printed publications is financed by persons whose activity includes distribution and sale of printed editions. For this reason, the information which individualises and reveals their actual owner is essential for the right of free access to the relevant edition. Thus, guarantees would be established that such access would not be unduly suspended for reasons relating to the potential personal interest of the owner, the relevant distributor and/or the print seller. Apart from that, the publicity of the register of persons distributing and/or selling printed media, as well as the number of end points used by them for sale, will provide clarity on the participants in this market, their individualisation and the existence of competition. At the same time, the declaration of this information to the Ministry of Culture provided for in the Bill is a natural continuation and addition to the existing obligation of publishers of periodical printed works to declare their actual owner and to make this register public on the Ministry's website. The introduction of an obligation for the Minister of Culture to notify the Commission of the protection of competition where a person uses, has in his commercial activity more than one third of all declared retail end points of printed works, is a guarantee on the future transparency of the sector and preserving effective competition on that market.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u7	Thank you, Mrs. Krasteva. Dear colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u8	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Reading the Bill carefully for a long time now, because I have had a lot of time to think about it, I can say that, in principle, there is nothing in the text of the Bill that I could not agree with. It is purely formal that this bill offers certain solutions. Whether they are subject to such a decision or subject to the possibility of changes between first and second readings are certainly possible. In general, the bill has some clear direction. It must be socially necessary. Purely logical from the point of view of factology, I could hardly challenge the text of the Bill. However, I will not support it with the clear awareness that the Bill has been written meaningfully and can make changes. But that's not the point of this bill. I will not support it, because I think that if there is something like a political class because it is, in my opinion, a wrong term, there is no political class, there is one in class societies, and we are not such a class, but if there is such a thing, it becomes meaningless on this path. There is no doubt that in Bulgaria one of the main problems of democracy is the mixing of politics and business, mixing, which is obviously often ineligible for Bulgaria. I think in the last 20 years we've gone our way in the direction of lightening these relationships, but this time it's terribly inadequate. If there is one thing that the citizens of Bulgaria clearly define as a problem of the system, it is the mixing of politics and business. For better or for worse, there are certain individuals who have somehow formulated symbols of this mixing. That's for good reason. I cannot convince the Bulgarian citizens and my constituents that Mr Peevski is not a symbol of the mixing of business and politics, at least with the fact that he is present in the National Assembly. This is at least because its influences on the political system are much greater than its formal presence or rather its formal absence in the National Assembly. From now on, I cannot support this bill, because for me it is the next step towards breaking down statehood. With it we tell Bulgarian citizens that there are people in the country who, despite their opinion, can do whatever they want and no one in the country or the National Assembly can in any way react to their outbursts of imposition. The attempt to sign this thing if it were a bill in which Peevski's name was not involved would be a bill that clearly has its objectives. Some of them, by the way, are lightening Peevski's image, among other things than useful ones. But if he hadn't signed it, it would have just been a bill going in the right direction and trying to lighten Peevski's image. With his signature, he becomes a rape of public opinion. There is a desire or an attempt to show the whole of Bulgaria that you people can do nothing to me! [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] Yes, you do, Mr. Tsonev, because I'm back to the fact that we have a huge problem in the country, and it's the gathering of business and politics, and that they're mixed up to the point where they turn from one to the other. A degree in which politics runs into business and turns into money and money goes back into politics! And that, unfortunately, is an absolute belief of the Bulgarian citizen! [[Reply from MP Yordan Tsonev.]] You are now talking to me about BSP "surely and GERB do so, certainly and BSP does so. What I'm telling you is that the attempt to get us to support you even now doesn't drive us and we won't support it, this is what I am saying, but the attempt to get this thing into the National Assembly to discuss it and then the press reports, because I assume that colleagues from GERB will support it, we will see the Patriots there and I am particularly interested in what they will do, but if this bill goes through, the very idea that such a bill can go through with the title then in the Monitor or in any other newspaper, that the Parliament supported Delyan Peevsky, the title itself goes from here to the whole environment falling down. So I'm going back to what I'm basically talking about. I repeat, I will not support it, but if it passes at first reading, I have texts that I would add and that I would change. In general, I believe that the texts are in the right direction. I will not support it, not because of the content of the texts, but because Delyan Peevski's very presence in the people who offer these texts is a challenge to society for me. By the way, on his part is not a smart challenge, because as strong as it is, this energy, which gathers against it, will eventually work. If I were him, I'd be more modest. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u9	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I admit that I had no intention of expressing myself, as everything has been said eloquently enough in our motives, but I am challenged by the pre-talking man, and I am very seriously challenged because things have been said that, firstly, do not correspond to the truth, and, secondly, contradict the logic and practice of the Bulgarian National Assembly at all. Firstly, the Bill has a clear purpose and this objective does not in any way correspond with the protection of the interest of anyone, at least Mr Peevski. On the contrary, he is accused by the so-called democratic press, which for us, however, is a clean factory for false news, that he is almost a publisher of all media in Bulgaria, that he is a monopoly, that he is a monopoly distributor. This law envisions that the exact opposite of lighten up, to show the public who and who are the owners, who and who are the distributors, whether there is such a monopoly or not, even provision is made for measures under the Commission for Protection of Competition in this direction. So there is absolutely no contradiction and this law is not at all in the interest of which you speak, at least for an image purpose. I am impressed by my colleague's frank statement that the bill would be supported if the importer was not Mr. Peevski, but someone else. Mr. Peevski is a MP like you, Mr. Kutev, and like me, he was elected by the Bulgarian voters. He has never and in no way shown in the Bulgarian Parliament that he used his work as a MP to protect his interests. On the contrary, take a look at the bills that he has imported, I suppose they are more than those you have imported, but even if they are not, it does not matter, here the work is not measured by kg, but measured by quality and you will see that they have always been for the benefit of the Bulgarian society and not for any personal benefit. Soon we had a conference within the framework of the Bulgarian Presidency here in the House of East, on financing the fight against money laundering and terrorist financing, which made it very clear that one of the laws that is not in Europe as legislation, as a regulation, is the one for offshore companies because the offshore companies launder the money and finance terrorism mainly there. Bulgaria turned out to be the only one with such a bill and its importer is Mr. Peevski. You absolutely have no right, in my opinion, to claim as a reason for failure to support or not to support, even without motivation, but I do not agree with this tribune to point out as a reason not to support the bill because of the name of one of its importers. The bill is in the right direction. You pointed it out yourself, Mr. Kutev, and I appeal to all colleagues to respect that there is such a need in Bulgarian society. Otherwise, they will circulate false claims that have been circulating for a very long time. Do you know who he's serving, Mr. Kutev? He serves all those who produce false news. It serves all those who want their slander to be to some extent true to the Bulgarian society. The lack of such regulation, of such a bill creates that environment in which I can say that you control a certain media environment without demonstrating it.... you simply control it, end, point. Let there be a clear regulation, let there be a clear indication of who is the owner, who is the distributor, how the funding is financed is extremely important, it depends on editorial policy, other dependencies are enlightened and so on. If we all agree with the content, it is not right at least for a Member of the National Assembly to speak to each other in this way, because there is no evidence in Mr Peevski's practice and work as a People's Representative, as there is no proof for you as a People's Representative, and for others that these statements, which are produced in the media, are true. If we were struggling with every topic in which we are defamed in this way, with bills and with such measures, believe me, the image of the Bulgarian Parliament, the MPs, the politicians would be different because it is the food environment of the insinuations, of not explaining, of who, what, what and so on creates this negative image. Of course, not only that, but this. I appeal to all of you to look at the content and note that this is a very correct, very dignified and very brave legislative initiative by Mr. Peevski, myself and my colleagues in the direction of lightening the ownership, financing and distribution of media products, media, the fourth power in Bulgaria, which is quite often the first power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u11	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Are there any lines? Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u12	Dear Mr. Tsonev, I have great respect for you as a very experienced parliamentarians and as a man who knows what he's doing. However, the line I'm going to make is that it's not true that we have no arguments against this conversation, and I wouldn't want to turn this conversation into a personal attack on Peevsky, but I'm the last person who wants to bring back some topic again. At the same time, however, it is not true that the whole attack on Peevski is some kind of personal defamation. Unfortunately, in political life, I have seen many personal defamations, I have been involved in them, both on one side and on the other, unfortunately. I think I have that experience. It's about something else that the person who somehow... Is it legal four years ago to have nothing in the declaration and now to have a few hundred million? And he can probably prove any leva of them that's true. Nevertheless, it means exactly what you and I are dealing with now, that some laws are made so that they allow it, or that some services have not done their job. The possibility of this happening in Western Europe or in America before World War II, when there were large tycoons who, selling weapons, managed to make many millions and billions in a few years. After World War II, that didn't happen there. Neither Bill Gates will ever want to be a senator, nor any of the others. Basically, the thesis that it is normal to collect the two things is absolutely unrealistic. That is why I am telling you that the fight for lightening must not go through parliament. If he wants Mr. Peevsky to fight to brighten the image, he can do it and no one can stop him, he has the tools. But don't drag Parliament into this! [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Another line? I won't. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u14	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Kutev, to give you back the gesture I also have a deep respect for you as a politician and for the speech you have here in the media, but in today you are mistaken, believe me, for many reasons. First of all, in your line, you have completely deviated from the subject of the Bill. If you're gonna deal with the origin of this guy's money and that guy's or I'm gonna deal with it, it's a capital mistake. A scary mix of functions and entering into a role they are entering, again I say, some observers, media and politicians from other parties, which is very ugly and which contributes to the deterioration of the climate in the country. So we're not dealing with this right now. Your position is wrong for another reason. If it is true that your claim that the transparent mixing of business and politics here is about this, immediately Trump should be expelled from politics in the US because he is one of the richest people there. We have to cancel Silvio Berlusconi's career. Do you want more examples? Hundreds of us can give out of this tribune. The aim is why an opportunity is given both in Bulgaria and abroad: the business that wants from the business community to become a politician or certain politicians to engage in business, one of the mandatory conditions for this to happen and to be allowed is to have absolute clarity about business and about everything related to these people, about their political actions, so that there is no abuse of power and so that all those things that are prohibited by the Law are not. What does this bill do? That's it! Shows everyone how a businessman wants everything to be bright, clear, clean and shown to the Bulgarian society in order not to have such doubts. For these three reasons, I can list more, I think that today you are wrong in your motives why you will not support the Bill. If you have other political motives, they are your business, but with those you have exposed, I do not agree and I think that we should essentially all take very responsible action towards the bill, the media environment, all of us here. Our parties and the whole society need clarity, they need lightening, they need to know who is who in this environment, who is financed from where and this is the first step. I will also turn to GERB today is five months since we submitted the bill. We've been waiting five months for your bill. I know that you will now try to postpone it to become your bill. I suggest you be correct. We didn't bring it in for five months, and we could have imported it in the previous spin by para. 7. We didn't bring it in to make you a bill, and who wants to see three or four bills. Now, however, it will be terribly incorrect if it is not accepted, because you can between first and second reading make all your suggestions and they can go inside and discuss them and eventually accept them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u15	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Rashidov, you've made a statement. Come on in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u16	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Firstly, I just have to assure you that the Media Act and the proposal for a change in it is not only Delyan Peevski or the group of MPs. The Prime Minister also ordered three ministries to work under this media law. As Chairman of the Committee on Culture, I must tell you that there are many proceeds from civil and public organisations that also have their ideas and proposals for a change in the Media Act. I am deeply convinced that the public should be informed about the actual owners, the way the media is financed, televisions and newspapers, radios, agencies, Internet publications. For me, this is an essential issue because it is about freedom of speech that we have been talking so much about lately, to all of us, dear. They call the media the fourth power for nothing. They form public opinion and it is perfectly logical to know who is behind them. When a media is financed opaque, people always have doubts about something hidden because money can buy consciences, colleagues, and bought consciences to dictate what to publish, why to publish, against whom to publish, for whom to publish. Freedom of speech is a sacred right of every person, not only the journalist and the media. This freedom guarantees pluralism of opinions, not one-sided and trendy coverage. This law will introduce clear rules for the publicity of property and funding of the media. My fellow Members, I just want to say to you that this debate has not occurred by accident, because the step between freedom and freedom is already there and it concerns the fates of many people in the country. I have always said and I will tell you that people who receive external funding, this money is not given to a black eye bag, such money is given precisely to fulfill something. I can't tell you what it is, so I'll allow myself to give you an example. I know a minister who's been in the ministries for eight years, and he's been on one show on this particular portfolio, and he's never been invited. I know people who've been invited 20 times, some of them six times eight times, whose only goal is to spit in front of the state or the minister. Can you tell me if this is free media? I support the idea of transparency of funding, because money is a good thing, but it is also a very dangerous thing that they can do very bad and black work. So just please let us know that it's not just Delyan Peevski's. We've been waiting for the KPC. There's a solution and a report. Mr. Tsonev said you knew we wanted to postpone it. It is not a matter of delay, Mr. Tsonev, perhaps at first reading it will pass, but it is very important, I suppose colleagues, if they are about this thing we are talking about, we should extend the time between first and second reading and I will tell you why. We need to make broad public debates, the issue is very delicate. Outside, some people who don't know how much they're free media, but they're gonna cry about freedom of speech. There was a time when you told a journalist he had big ears, and he said, "You're breaking the freedom of speech." So to discuss it, it is a very important issue and, of course, the time has come to establish clear, accurate and human rules, and never forget that Murdoch's most tyrant newspaper has been closed down. The second time I'll tell you, because of yellow, bad news or I'll say, let's not say it, bad news, slander, literal slander, Bernard Tapey condemned a media in Marseilles for 47 million euros. In a media, someone can safely say that I am a multac. No, I didn't work at Multigroup. It's a company. I was a friend of Ilija Pavlov's and I still put flowers on his grave. From Berov until now, I have sampled how many of the BSP you licked the plates of Ilija Pavlov! [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Stop throwing words in public! It's the lying media! It's the paid media! I would support such a law. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u17	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. Are there any lines? First line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Rashidov, I agree with the things that you have pointed out, and the arguments, my reply concerns rather the part where you talk about this democratic press that talks about freedom of speech and I speak about it, and we refer to it in the reasons for the bill. Let them shout, Mr. Rashidov. The same people, the same media, the same journalists for years have been talking and asking: "Whose property is this?" When this bill came in, they blew up the sky. When this bill answered their questions, it actually appeared as an answer to their questions, not only to the expectations in the society they raised a powerful howl against it. Have you ever seen such hypocrisy? In the whole transition we have seen all sorts of hypocritical opinions and actions, but such hypocrisy, I simply cannot help but be indignant! Let them roar! We, with this bill, are taking away the food environment of false news, of intrigues and of the clemency of anyone in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u19	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Another line? I won't. You have the right to dodge, Mr. Rashidov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u20	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I'd like to address you as soon as possible. I'll dare to go even further. The most for freedom of speech and for clean media plowed just the people who do not believe to be very clean, for one simple reason I do not know where they are clean. Cleanliness and hygiene are connected to water. I don't know where they bathe. Soon from these media I heard them proclaim by Dnevnik, I will not hide it that we have Bulgarian Confucius. I've been wondering all week, and what could a man be like if he's got a column of Confucius with paid pennies on someone, I don't know the Hungarian's name... And what is Anton Donchev with the word separate, he must be God?! Stop talking! All we have to do is talk about people who are somehow standing around and they need to be made clear. Rather, let's talk about freedom of speech itself. Colleagues, we're going to need more and more freedom of speech. That's the sick question, that's what the media is talking about. I believe none of us have opposed freedom of speech. I'll tell you one more thing you seem to have forgotten. Back in the day, the government of Kostov and Volen Siderov were on a list of assistants declared enemies of the Bulgarian state. I hope you haven't forgotten it! We were just the people who fought for freedom of speech, and we had topics when he was an editor in the newspaper "Monitor" for many years when Petyo Bluskov was the owner. This was our theme and we have also created rallies to parliament, precisely for freedom of speech. At the moment I can tell you calmly for 10 years I have seen what freedom of speech is and really the word needs true freedom, and this is created only by legal arrangements and with clear, human rules. Last I finish, again someone to hear the freedom of speech is the right of every citizen around the world, it is not only the privilege of one caste or another. That is why we must make such laws to guarantee our freedom. I want to speak as Bozhidar Dimitrov freely. Unfortunately, I'm stuck in some frames and sometimes these frames torment me. We all have to use that freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u21	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] Mr. Siderov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I thank Mr. Rashidov for recalling episodes from now on, as today's journalists say: Ladies and gentlemen, dear colleagues! We have today's task not to make a feature or judge this or that media or this or that MP and importer. Here it was mentioned how the Patriots will react.................................................................................................... Well, it's very interesting, yes, the Patriots we have four or five years ago put forward a proposal. [[shows document]] , only some four years, how time flies..Project law. amendment of the Publicity Act of the property of persons occupying senior state offices and others. There we make an amendment in which we say... except for the public positions, if they like to be good and kind to declare their possessions and incomes, as we all do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u23	Bravo!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u24	I list: owners, managers, editor-in-chief and editor-in-chief, publishers, journalists, members of managing bodies, producers, sociological and advertising agencies also, media and public relations agencies, electronic and print media, Internet editions and production houses. This amendment is in the archive, submitted to the Office, not moved. Maybe now she's having a good time, along with the Law that's being offered. Here I will turn to one of the previous speakers that, if anyone has a fixation on Peevski's name, because Mr. Kutev's statement was an attempt for a portrait or an attempt for some profile of the MP Peevski, who is one of the importers, because there are three or four other siren Tsonev, Hamid Hamid and Velislava Krasteva, with whom we worked in one edition, by the way, respected by me journalist, as you assured each other of respect. Suddenly it turns out that the name of one of the importers for you is more important than the very text of the Law, Mr. Kutev. I think we're here to discuss the Law. If you have any problems solving with Peevski, go around the corner, solve them, but do not bother us with your attitude or your complexes to any other MP. We don't care about the name of the importers. We care about the text. The text of the Law that is being proposed is good. Of course, it can also be improved between first and second readings, but we support this text and even want to add what was not accepted four years ago to be good to declare their income all who are owners or working in the media. Because we know very well that the media is not the fourth power, someone said here, but the first power. Right now they're first in power, and they've been in power for decades now. The media are those who are every day in the home and mind of the citizens of Bulgaria. We come, we go, one government is two, three, four years tops, but the media are constant They're the ones who pick up, take off, denigrate or bleach someone. I'll say again, as the most victim in this regard, I can talk for hours about how I've been tarnished, how many cases I've done for slander and lies and yet things go on. The good is, I will only point out, what I note for myself that this law, which is being proposed, also includes the Internet media, which is currently the largest information media field. They're being irresponsible right now. On an Internet site they can write whatever they want, it is not subject to regulation by the SEM, it is not subject to any sanctions. We've been trying to establish the property of one of these sites, it turns out there's either a mailbox or an offshore firm, and that's it, you can't find anything. And responsibility for defamation, defamation, or false news brings no one. This is not a normal situation! If anyone says it's normal, go out there and protect them. Everyone has the right to that opinion. But do not take the name of one of the importers to say that you will not support something that is good for our entire society, for the health of our society. Thank you for your attention. [[Single applause by the United Patriarchs.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u25	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. I will put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the compulsory deposit of printed works and other works, No 854-01-5. Please, voting mode.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u26	They voted 132 MPs: 92, against 12, abstention 28. The motion is accepted. Go ahead, Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u27	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, I am making a proposal that we can extend the maximum period to four weeks between first and second readings, so that we can really, in the Commission, discuss and look closely and have the opportunity to have a public debate that will be very urgent and necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u28	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. We are voting on the proposal made by Mr. Vejdi Rashidov for a maximum extension of the period between the first and second reading of the Bill. 140 MPs voted: 128, against 2, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. We shall proceed with the next proposal by a parliamentary group in the order of art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Importers "Cornelia Nino" and a group of MPs, submitted on 13 December 2017. Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. Please submit the report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u29	Madam President, honourable Members, your attention is to: ♪ I can't believe in the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 754-01-83, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. At its meeting held on 14 March 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 754-01-83, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. The meeting was attended by: Mr. Alexander Stefanov from the Ministry of Justice. Mr. Yavor Bozhankov presented the reasons for the bill. The aim of the proposed changes is the introduction of enhanced criminal protection of the life and health of Bulgarian citizens in cases of violations of the legal requirements related to medicinal products in human medicine. A new qualified composition is proposed when medicinal products have been transferred to human medicine in large sizes across the country. Mr. Bojankov added that criminalisation of production, import, export, storage, wholesale and retail of medicinal products in human medicine is introduced when these activities are carried out in violation of law. On the bill were received opinions from the Supreme Court of Cassation, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Health, the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union, the Bulgarian Medical Union and the Bulgarian Association for the Development of the parallel trade in medicines. In the course of the subsequent discussion, Mr. Kirilov noted that the bill should be consistent with the principle that no one can be tried twice for the same thing. Mrs. Gigova added that the bill does not refer to a specific legislative act and its adoption would lead to difficulties in law enforcement. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 6 votes for the Criminal Code, No 754-01-83, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 13 December 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u30	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Following is a report from the Committee on Health. Here you go, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u31	Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote of the Committee on Health on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 754-01-83, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. At its regular meeting on 25 January 2018, the Health Commission examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 754-01-83, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Nino and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov, Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, representatives of word organizations in the field of health, patient organizations and others. The bill and the reasons for it were presented by one of the importers Dr. Ilian Timchev. He briefed the members of the Commission on the aims of the Bill to introduce enhanced protection of the life and health of Bulgarian citizens in cases of violations of the legal requirements related to medicinal products in human medicine. It has been said that the trend of unregulated imports, exports and commercialisation of medicinal products in human medicine is increasing, such as the administrative criminal responsibility provided for in the special laws, cannot achieve the necessary results. In essence, first of all, the bill offers an addition to art. 242, para. 1 of the Code of Penalty........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Importers propose to criminalise the transport across the border of the country of medicinal products in large sizes without the knowledge and authorisation of customs. Secondly, the Bill proposes the creation of a new criminal group in Section III "Crimes against People's Health and the Environment " of Chapter 11 "General Criminal Crimes" of the Criminal Code. It will criminalise all acts of production, storage, import, export, wholesale and retail of medicinal products in human medicine committed in violation of a law. During the discussion Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov, Deputy Minister of Justice, expressed a reasoned opinion that the Ministry of Justice does not support the bill. The Deputy Minister of Health Dr. Boyko Penkov expressed a negative opinion on the draft law under consideration, pointing out that the state should strengthen the administrative criminal responsibility for violations of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The thesis on the introduction of stricter administrative criminal legal norms was supported by the Chairman of the Board of the Bulgarian Pharmaceutical Union Professor Ilko Getov. In the course of the discussion, MPs from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) advocated a counterthesis that it is necessary to introduce criminal liability in relation to the illegal export, import and activities of medicinal products, not excluding the possibility of precision and changes in the submitted bill. The opposite opinion was expressed by MPs from GERB's parliamentary group. According to them, it is not necessary to criminalise export, import, production, trade in medicinal products committed in violation of a law, since such infringements provide for administrative criminal liability to be sought by the guilty persons in due time by the competent authorities. The President of the Commission Dr. Daniela Daritkova expressed his opinion that he did not consider it necessary to supplement art. 242, para. 1 of the Criminal Code with the proposed text from importers. In para. 1 of art. 242 substances and goods for commercial or production purposes in large sizes are included, whose carry-over across the country's border without the knowledge and permission of the customs authorities constitutes a claimed smuggling. On the other hand, she introduced the members of the committee to a summary result of a study of the legislative framework in the Member States of the European Union. The majority of the responding countries have indicated that administrative criminal liability is envisaged under their national law for the export of medicinal products for human use in violation of a law. The exception is the legal regime of the Greek Republic, according to which in the case of systematic administrative violations such as: abuse of stickers for the authenticity of medicinal products in their export, as well as the collection of medicinal products for export purposes (including intra-Community supplies), where an administrative ban on export is issued, administrative criminal records shall be sent to a prosecutor. Certain Member States provide for criminal liability for specific acts, activities with medicinal products for human use. Lithuania is responsible for illegal circulation, including unauthorised exports, carried out without required customs documents or authorisations of narcotic psychotropic substances and category of precursors. The United Kingdom can be prosecuted in the distribution of unlicensed medicinal products or in the distribution carried out by a person without due authorisation for this activity. In the event of a violation of the rules on the marketing of chemicals for therapeutic activities, and in the case of infringements of the rules on good manufacturing practice, criminal liability is envisaged. On the basis of the discussion and the vote carried out on the following results:.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u32	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Following is the Commission's report on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling. Is Commissioner Emil Dimitrov here? Is there a Commissioner? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u33	Dear Madam President, ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 754-01-83, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. At its regular meeting on 11 January 2018, the Commission for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 754-01-83, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. The meeting was attended by Associate Professor Asena Stoimenova, Executive Director of the Executive Medicines Agency, and Mr Svetlin Spirov, Secretary General of the Agency. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev. The aim of the bill is to fill a gap in the legislation. The lack of criminal protection of Bulgarian citizens when activities are carried out that directly endanger their lives and health. The mass cases of illegal imports and parallel exports of medicinal products require the adoption of proposed criminal rules. The proposed changes to the Criminal Code are in Chapter Six "Crimes against the holding", Section III "Crimes against the regime".............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 242, para. 1 and in Chapter 11 of the General Crimes Unit, Section III "Crimes against people's health and against the environment "create art. 350b. The first norm criminalises the export of medicinal products to human medicine in large sizes, and the second one criminalizes the production, import, export, storage, wholesale and retail of medicinal products in human medicine when these activities are carried out in violation of law. The representatives of the Drug Executive Agency said that they support the bill in principle, but the text of the proposed penal norm should be refined in art. 350b. This text actually refers to any violation of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. In practice, a violation of the law is any failure to comply with its requirements, which can lead to major sanctions, even for minor violations. During the discussion the President of the Commission noted that the examination of this bill was a natural continuation of the Commission's meetings with the participation of investigative journalists, the management of the Executive Agency for Medicines, Sofia's City Prosecutor and the Prosecutor General of the Republic of Bulgaria. The same topic was discussed at a meeting of the Legal Commission, where the Prosecutor General made a recommendation for changing the Penal Code in order to protect the life and health of Bulgarian citizens. The Commission agreed on the view that drug abuse should be criminalised. The existence of a criminal, shady economy or gray sector related to illegal imports and parallel exports of medicines should be clearly regulated in the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. Changes to the Law should also include the establishment of a body, regulation of its internal rules and methodology for the amount of minimum reserves from risk groups of medicines. A clearly written regulation on the composition of the body, its members and the control to be carried out by the Minister of Health is also needed. The possibility was discussed for the National Health Insurance Fund to be able to include an additional clause in its framework contract to ensure that suppliers of medicinal products have minimum quantities in storage. Following the discussion and the vote, the Committee for the Monitoring of Revenue Agencies and the Fight against the Grey Economy and Smuggling by 10 votes for the Criminal Code, No 754-01-83, submitted by Kornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Nikolov. Dear MPs, guest of the National Assembly today is Vice Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Vietnam Fan Bin Min, who is visiting Bulgaria. Please welcome him to the Bulgarian Parliament! [[All rise and greet guests with applause.]] We're continuing our work on the Bill. Following an importer's opinion. Here you go, Mr. Stoinev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u35	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The aim of the proposed amendments and additions to the Criminal Code is the introduction of enhanced protection of the life and health of Bulgarian citizens in cases of violations of the legal requirements related to medicinal products in human medicine. The mass cases of unauthorised imports, exports and commercialisation of medicines which are public and which do not have an adequate reaction by the State require the adoption of the proposed criminal rules. It is obvious that only the administrative criminal liability provided for in the special laws cannot achieve the necessary results. At the same time, the provisions of the Criminal Code provide for criminal compositions relating to illegal activities, food, drink, veterinary medicinal products, animal feeds, as well as for substances that deplete the ozone layer, but not where the subject of the acts are medicines in human medicine. The proposed bill aims at filling this gap in criminal law protection and the creation of instruments of response and by the power of criminal repression when illegal activities are carried out that directly endanger human health. First of all, an amendment is proposed in art. 242, para. 1 The so-called...... Smuggling........................................................................................... A new letter is available, according to which a crime is present when medicinal products are transported across the country's border to human medicine in large sizes. Under the current regulation, drug smuggling is only a customs violation. The suggestion is that it is also a crime in cases where the object is large-scale. The approach referred to in point (e) of paragraph 1 shall be used and, in other cases, shall continue to be punished as an administrative infringement. Secondly, the production, import, export, storage, wholesale, retail of medicinal products in human medicine is criminalised when these activities are carried out in violation of a law. In view of the current law, this is the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The forms of the enforcement act follow activities governed by this law "production, import, export, wholesale, retail, as well as storage of medicines." The crime is not offered as an effective one, unlike, for example, the provision of art. 350a. Our understanding is that while such an approach is justified in terms of food and drink, food for animals and veterinary medicinal products, any activity in violation of the law by definition threatens people's lives and health. The sanction proposed is up to six years in prison and is adequate to the degree of public danger of this crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u36	Thank you, Mr. Stoinev. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go. You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u37	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, a truly noble idea lies in the motives of this bill, but however noble the idea is, I think that the form they are looking for and trying to use colleagues to solve problems related to legitimate drug trade is not particularly appropriate. And here I will refer to the arguments that are enshrined in the opinion of the Supreme Court of Cassation as far as we are concerned about changes to the Penal Code. What do the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation of the Criminal College say? In the two proposed criminal compositions in the Bill there is a duplication of rules providing for administrative criminal liability for the children. The existence of a rule providing for administrative criminal liability and the composition of a criminal offence for the same act always poses risks of competition between criminal and administrative criminal liability. It could be expressed in the application of the principle of the "ne bis in ie..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... That is, the speed of punishment in these cases, with the changes so proposed, is avoided entirely. The proposed composition of a crime under art. 350b of the Criminal Code is almost identical to the compositions of administrative violations under art. 281 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, which presents difficulties in limiting administrative criminal and criminal liability. In the Legal Commission and other bills, motives have been set out that we should not allow a breach of the principle of the "ne bis in i........................................................................................... With regard to proposals in § 1 of the criminal composition of art. 242, para. It is necessary to pay attention to the fact that it cannot serve as a criterion for criminalisation only the large size of the medicinal products transported. This is because it is practically possible to refer to only one medicinal product carried across the country for the needs of a sick person, which, however, is of high value. In this case, there could not be any talk of a socially dangerous act and the creation of such a criminal group could lead to an embarrassment of the interests of seriously ill persons. If the idea of importers is to value the transfer of medicinal products to human medicine at large, but for commercial purposes, it is not necessary to create a new criminal composition, as long as such behaviour would be subsumed by the signs of art. 242, para. 1 letter (e) of the Criminal Code or otherwise, we already have such a criminal composition in the current Criminal Code. Here what you are trying to propose, colleagues, as a solution, is not adequate with the use of the funds set out in the Penal Code, so I will not support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u38	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u39	Madam President, honourable Members! I would agree with my colleague Mitev, if what we are talking about is something ordinary that is in our lives and exists. This is about a game with the lives of people who are in serious condition. Today our debate is based on constantly revealing performances in this area. Literally yesterday, 28,000 packs of drugs were found in Istanbul. The Bulgarian system, which we argue should be the administrative punishment........................................ Literally about a month ago, it may have happened from the Plovdiv case, when again in a game with vital medicines, a huge resource was drained from the National Health Insurance Fund. It's about a game with that 1 billion. BGN, which the state allocates for medicine supply in our country. It must be clear to us that this process I say, of the theft of medicines, there is one more moment, they must be illuminated, the stolen medicines must be put back into the system so that they can be paid with public resources, whether in Bulgaria or another country. This is a very important thing for me! This is no ordinary trade. In this case, it is not about trade in cigarettes or in foodstuffs. This is about a product that concerns the life of a part of the Bulgarian people, and it is extremely expensive. That's why I say this act is cynical. This is no ordinary trade! I plead to you to support this bill because we have been unable to deal with this act for several years now. I don't want to go back, but we remember the case that happened in Sofia, again for a large-scale trade. We must criminalize this act in order to have effective measures and deal with it, otherwise there is only one story left. Talk to me! And worst of all, when it comes time to discuss the budget of the Health Insurance Fund, we will still argue, debate how much money to spend on the drug supply, because we have spent the most money compared to other countries percent, not as a fact. The problem is that some of that money is stolen. That's the real term. So I say again, I suggest that we approve the bill as a first step in solving this serious, criminal problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u40	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I will give an opportunity to a colleague from GERB and then we will return to the speeches from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. Here you go, Mr. Borisov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u41	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, honourable Members! I'm gonna go with art. 350b of the draft and I will read it again: The person in violation of law produces, stores, imports, exports or retail medicinal products in human medicine is punished by imprisonment for up to 6 years. Thus, the proposed text is too general and does not distinguish between the different burden of public danger of infringements. The activities related to the production of medicines and medicine supply are extremely diverse and they include too many people, respectively, possible violations can be of a different nature. The approach proposed by importers incriminates all infringements in the process of manufacture and marketing of medicinal products. Incorrect storage of medicinal products becomes a criminal act. All administrative violations in the field of drug supply and production become criminal crimes. It is important to note that the same act cannot be both a crime and an administrative offence. The correct approach is to strengthen administrative control and increase the penalty. Administrative criminal liability must be sought for infringements relating to the production and trade of medicinal products. The introduction of a restrictive or prohibition regime is a fully adequate measure in this case. Administrative sanctions and restrictive regimes in the marketing of medicinal products are subject to the texts in the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The changes in it were seen at second reading in the Health Commission and were supported almost unanimously. We believe that the proposed texts and sanctions are fully adequate. I am referring to the texts in the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine and sufficient to put regulation in the sector. They are entirely in the interests and protection of public health and people's lives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u42	Thank you, Mr. Borisov. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. The word for speech is Dr. Naydenova. Here you are, dear Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u43	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! As you can see, there are two positions on this issue. Unfortunately, one position of the Ministry of Health and which we expected would be much stricter to the problem that has arisen because, if everything had been fine by now, we would not be discussing such a bill at all today. Yes, but now this process is continuing and, as you can see, it's not stopping. On the contrary, it is expanding, which means that we, as the National Assembly, should intervene. There's something else. You will all say that I am right in at least one industry is extremely useful, but it is extremely profitable. However, it can sometimes be dangerous, and lobbying in this area, as well as corruption, are extremely pronounced. This is why we as MPs resemble the health of Bulgarian citizens to be a priority and extremely important. So we need to legally cover all the gaps all the way from production, storage, to retail and wholesale sales, as well as transport across our borders of medicinal products for human medicine. So our two proposals: one that is the smuggling of medicinal products in human medicine in large proportions across borders, is to be criminalised,...................and it is worth very seriously considering these more stringent measures that we need to impose. Secondly, we propose the punishment of up to six years in prison: which is in violation of this law, produces, stores, imports, exports, sells retail and wholesale medicinal products in human medicine, also bears its responsibility. I do not accept any excuses from all those who have expressed their opinion that we should extend the administrative penal provisions! I say again: if so far it had benefited from all this, if control had been in its place, we would not be discussing this issue now, because the consequences are very worrying.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u44	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. Are there any lines? Mr. Lazarov, come in, you have a chance for a first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u45	Dear Madam President, of course, without having any claims against colleagues with medical education, I would like to ask: the text in § 2, which you have signed, means that in practice any sale of a person who has prescribed medicines........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ That's what you wrote. Your goal is different. In the previous statements, I heard the sale, the theft of drugs, production, illegal. The theft of medicines is punishable by other texts of the Penal Code, but this § 2 with the retail sale... You didn't even put in big sizes or any other criterion. For every drug sale without a prescription, you'll put pharmacists in jail within six years?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u46	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Is there another line? I won't. Here you go, Dr. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u47	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we know very clearly what this is about!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u48	That's not what it says!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u49	Any sale outside the Law regulation is not legal and everyone must bear their own responsibility. How many times do you sell drugs without a prescription? That's not from now on. This process has been far too long.. irresponsible, conscious and profitable. I support anything that will stop this process, which is not only immoral, it is simply criminal to health! And when you see such damaged people, it doesn't matter what this drug is, then you'll realize why we need to be stricter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u50	Thank you, Dr. Naydenova. A stated statement by Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u51	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I would like to do a slightly wider analysis of this legislative initiative, because what we see most often does not occur here now is not spontaneous, it is not like to tell importers at some point the wonderful idea that we have a serious problem with this kind of disproportion, I would say, on the market of medicinal products for human medicine. The Genesis of the problem and its diagnosis in this National Assembly was in another committee, honourable Members. This was the Commission of the Honorable President Emil Dimitrov. This is the Commission for Monitoring Revenue Agencies and Combating the Grey Economy and Smuggling. There, first of all, there is the question of the common cases in which we have problems related to trade, supply, here I would add availability and access to certain medicines from human medicine. There is no President Revizoro, unfortunately, but his committee began with a hearing of the Attorney General. I cannot say in detail what were the debates on this hearing, but this debate continued in the Committee on Legal Affairs where in the regime of art. 27 of our rules, in dialogue with the Attorney General, this issue has been discussed again with a particular focus on legal problems regarding the provision of such a regime. At some point, after this debate, I will repeat and see that my colleagues from the Legal Committee listen carefully to this statement. They were also witnesses to the position of the Attorney General on this issue, and it was in the sense: yes, we must predict a composition, but we must very carefully refine it, including we must very carefully assess both the proof and the penalty, respectively, the consequences of the execution of the punishment. At one point, this discussion obviously inspired the legislative initiative of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. However, this initiative, fellow Members, is another urgent child who, unfortunately, produces an effect in the audience, but cannot produce a qualitative result in the legislative procedure. Why can't he? Because by throwing out such a bill, he has practically demotivated everyone involved so far to take part and work on this issue. And why isn't BSP working on it? Why BSP is not working on this issue, I will comment on an amendment, which was in the Law on Medicinal Products in 2014, which was again unsuccessful, I would use another word, but an unsuccessful attempt to introduce criteria and regime for re-export of medicines. This experience of the Oresharski government was so unsuccessful that the amendments to the Law were repealed by the Constitutional Court.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u52	Some changes!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u53	The essentials, Madam President, so that there is virtually no regime. I am pleased that I have drawn the attention of my colleague Atanasova, because she can very rightly recall aspects of the legal issue in relation to this bill. We had to do this: the big distortion is actually from the re-export. We had to join forces and work to build an objective and effective internal market control system so that expensive medicines from international producers are not imported at a preferential price, I say at a preferential price, which then immediately and quickly re-export, so that they cannot reach the Bulgarian consumer. I will say: and I care about the drug market, whether all medicines that are needed, which are on the list of medicines that are reimbursable on certain diseases and healing pathways, are not able to reach. Yes, someone is trading on the back of the Bulgarian patient and the Bulgarian consumer. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u54	Honourable Members, please be quiet in this Chamber!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u55	But this will not happen with another hollow rule of penal responsibility, which the colleagues have explained to you wonderfully. It duplicates a current criminal regime, that is, if we have evidence, if we have an ambitious investigation and proof in this proceedings, it can come to fruition. Yeah, it's not gonna be on this penal norm, it's gonna be on another set. If the control agencies do their job, it will also not come to this result. Once again, we come to this: we need a strong and effective system to act unambiguously, which no one should surround. I'm not gonna get into a debate about circumvention, but when you try to manipulate the system, including through the public record of one or the other with the clear awareness that they're not working, it's not gonna work either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u56	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? Mr. Popov, come in. Then Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u57	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleague Kirilov, I will enter your rhetoric and tell you that even youngsters have a right to life. Unfortunately, you euthanize every idea and initiative simply because it doesn't come out of you. Give this bill a chance, even if it doesn't come out of you. Make a proposal between first and second readings if you think we should fight this phenomenon because it exists in Bulgaria. I would like to thank you for recognising and coming to our position that there are virtually no strong institutions in Bulgaria that can cope and fight against this phenomenon. That is why we have made this legislative initiative. Support it to strengthen and put an instrument in the hands of these failing institutions to deal with this problem at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u58	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Second line of Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u59	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, since you took the liberty to mention that joint efforts are needed to control the re-export of medicines in Bulgaria and to quote the meeting that took place at the end of last year, I would like to share with you: the common opinion in Bulgaria is that for eight months on this issue absolutely nothing is being done. The law supplementing the Law on Medicinal Products, which you submitted in January through the Ministry of Health and the Council of Ministers for Control, which laid down some positive mechanisms for re-export control, suddenly on the move began to change to the Committee on Health on your proposal and it came to the nonsense to propose changes to the Law on the basis of an electronized system which has not yet been created. In the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law proposed by you, that is to say, a change in the Law had to be made four months after the entry of the Act into effect, even more so this law went for notification, that is to say we will be able, or as you like to say in a procedure, one year after the Commission's memorable meeting on monitoring revenue agencies and combating the grey economy and smuggling of the President, whom you quoted, to be in a position not to have any changes in the control of the re-export of medicines. I therefore believe that the efforts currently being made are essential and could, as the honourable Member said just now, be discussed between first and second readings, but this gives an impression, and this is also clearly seen from the media's attitude to the re-export problem, that inaction and deliberate inaction in this direction lead to major losses of the state. With this bill we are trying to meet the requirement of all Bulgarian citizens. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u60	Thank you. Next is Mr. Lazarov's third line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u61	Dear Madam Chairman, dear Mr. Kirilov! Here I heard calls for support. If I am not mistaken, three months ago, we voted by fellow Members on a domestic violence law amendment to the Code of Criminal Procedure. The deadlines expired, and I did not see any proposals, and this was the commitment between first and second readings to take note of the comments so that this bill could move forward. Now we see the call again: "Support it, and we will change it between first and second readings." "The call is on this side of the room, the left side, by BSP colleagues, who, sorry, but last week we voted on a bill because we transpose directives, regulations of the European Union, and they vote abstention. [[Heckling]] Perhaps there is a different policy and they are an anti-European party?! Is that what they want to show, I cannot understand, but for transposition of directives of regulations into the Bulgarian legislation they vote abstention and now some other call?! I will take advantage and say: I will vote abstention and then propose amendments between first and second votes because there are indeed absurdities in the second paragraph. The thing about storage: but someone moved, didn't store certain drugs properly, there's not even a minor and minor case here. Not to mention some old guy...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u62	After all, the line is a disagreement with the speaker. Isn't that right?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u63	Yes, yes, disagreement, that's exactly what Mr. Kirilov said.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u64	Yeah, well, we're assuming that's some sort of nuance of disagreement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u65	I've still got time, I've still got 30 minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u66	You do.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u67	So, Mr. Kirilov, you also missed this to say: an elderly person who bought 10 years of prescription drugs, but you forgot the recipe and the pharmacist must bear six years in prison. That's the bill of coworkers!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u68	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Mr. Kirilov, the full cause of the doppelganger is three lines.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u69	Dear Madam President, honourable Members, honourable Members, who made speeches! I'll start with a line from colleague Philip Popov. No, colleague Popov, we have never shown any prejudice against the importer and we have never limited your bill just because it comes from you, even when we have been put in a situation of deliberate competition, almost who will play first, who will say first. Even then, I believe that you as importers have received collective and professional support from us in view of the content of the proposal. I claim that, specifically in the Legal Committee, we have not been so extremely prejudiced as we have been preconceived. Evidence of this is, Mr. Lazarov said about the case of your other penal codes and the Criminal Codes that we supported you with. Yes, for reasons, with reservations, but we supported them because of the principle. And here Mr. Lazarov is right why, since we all agreed that we should work, why didn't we? Why don't you continue your initiative as initiators to be the generator of the search for a solution? It's the same case now with the Civil Procedure Code Project. Yes, one of our wonderful ideas from October, November, for which we did not have the courage to do so correctly, you brought it in as rescuers three weeks ago, but it appears that it has not been developed. Now me and my fellow experts are working on it. Well, at least take an active part in this process. But these are organizational debates that we can safely bring back to the Legal Committee, so that we do not waste our time in plenary. For the esteemed Professor Mihailov, I would like to say this. Unfortunately, I am not a member of the Health Commission and I do not have direct and immediate perception of this bill and of the proposals that have taken place between first and second readings, but I will say the following: criminal responsibility cannot replace this system. There must be a system like this. I can't say competently on which base do you think the one with any basics, any assignments at this time?! Should a brand-new system be developed with a database, and on this base and control, I can't say I'm not familiar with this case?! But I'm afraid of norms that act absolutely for everything and you're a criminal for everything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u70	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u71	When the law is not clear, then it comes to the opposite, then no one is afraid of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u73	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Important things have been said both in this bill and in general about the way we legislate. Dear colleagues, we are submitting a proposal, you have the right not to like it. Those who do not like it must suggest how to change it and on this basis look for the way to develop the texts and this applies to everything. You can't expect the importers who worked and made a bill, then to go and change it themselves. We are open to see what your proposals are essentially. We submitted this bill on 13 December last year. That's seven months. You cannot say that there is a problem, that this problem is huge, that it is essential, that it literally affects people's lives and you explain what needs to be done. We're not here to explain what needs to be done, we're here to do it. And that's our decision. Personally, I must admit that I am not an adept and a supporter of the Penal Law to solve such problems. We often use criminal law because in other systems, in other industries the administration has not done its job. Here, however, we are placed in an absolute obligation to react, and through the power of state repression, because during those eight months in which you spent not liking our law, instead of proposing another, some people are filling their throats with criminal schemes, while others are dying because they have no medicines or because they are expensive and cannot pay for them. I therefore call on you for a constructive approach, not to explain what should and could be done. There's a proposal on the table. Like it or not, it is your sovereign decision, but you must also give your answer to this question. Not only did the Attorney General put it on us and he put it on a daily basis, they also put it on the citizens, I'm sure, and on your admissions. Finally, many of the problems that we face in our legislation, the dislike of a project, the different opinions that we have between us, as people representing different political powers, even the different perceptions of law, if you will, come from the fact that the Council of Ministers is completely ineducated and there are not serious enough, including legislative initiatives on key issues for the Bulgarian society. The system you're talking about, who's going to build it? Should we build the drug control system? It would not have come to such a proposal for a change in the Penal Code if the administration, the state, the regulatory authorities, the Council of Ministers were in place. Since they're not, we have to replace them. [[(Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.) Commendations: Bravo!)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u74	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We're going to vote. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 754-01-83, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 13 December 2017. Vote 155 MPs: 63, against 39, abstention 53. The proposal is not accepted, with which the Bill is rejected. We continue with the next item on the agenda: PROJECT DECISION TO DETERMINE THE COMMISSION FOR THE AUDIT OF THE ANNUAL FINANCIAL ACCOUNT OF THE COURT OF AUDITORS 2017 With the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance, Mr. Ivanov will introduce us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to ask you for admission to the Chamber on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure and the activities of the National Assembly of the Members of the Court of Auditors: Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetkov, President; Mr. Toshko Todorov and Mr. Gornitsa Gruncharova, Vice-Presidents of the Court of Auditors, and the registered auditors: Professor Snezhana Basheva and Iliya Iliev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u76	Honourable Members of the National Assembly, we are voting for the admission of the persons just listed, representatives of the Court of Auditors. They voted 104 MPs: 99, against 2, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Tsvetkov and the other ladies and gentlemen who were admitted into the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u77	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a draft decision setting out a committee to audit the Court of Auditors' annual financial report for 2017 At a meeting held on 28 June 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee discussed a draft decision setting out a committee to audit the Court of Auditors' annual financial report for 2017. The adoption of the decision is necessary in relation to the requirement of art. 65, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Court of Auditors to audit the annual financial statements of the Court of Auditors by an independent committee whose number and composition is determined by the National Assembly. The committee is scheduled to be eight members, with representatives of all parliamentary groups involved, as well as two registered auditors. After the discussion, the Committee on Budget and Finance with 18 votes for the European Parliament, without abstention and abstention, proposed that the National Assembly consider and accept the following: Project! DECISION laying down a committee for the audit of the Court of Auditors' annual financial report for 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 65, para. 1 and 2 of the Law on the Court of Auditors HAS DECIDED 1. Sets out an eight-member committee to audit the Court of Auditors' annual financial statements for 2017. 2. Selects the composition of the committee as follows: Chairman: Maria Yordanova Ilieva Members: Evgenia Danylova Angelova MP from the Parliamentary Group of PP GERB; Georgi Chenkov Turnovalyski MP from the parliamentary group BSP for Bulgaria. Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova, Member of the Parliamentary Group, United Patriarchs. Sergey Manushov Kichikov, Member of Parliamentary Group Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Dora Stoyanova Hristova, Member of the Parliamentary Group of the Political Party, Iliya Nedelchev Iliev Snezana Alexandrova Basheva 3. The Commission shall draw up a report on the report referred to in paragraph 1. 1 to be submitted to the National Assembly by 30 September 2018, together with the report on the activities of the Court of Auditors for 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u78	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor, honourable Members, for speeches, considerations. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the decision which has just been read to appoint a committee to audit the Court of Auditors' annual financial report for 2017. Vote: 103 MPs: 103 against and abstention. The motion is accepted. The decision is a fact. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: For the purposes of heading 854-01-55, the following definitions apply: Importer: Nikolay Alexandrov and group of MPs on 20 June 2018. The Economic Policy and Tourism Committee report will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mr. Kanev. Here you are, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u79	Mrs. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act, No 854-01-55, submitted by Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018. The Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism at its meeting held on 27 June 2018 examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 854-01-55, submitted by Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs. The meeting was attended by: Deputy Minister of Economy Lachezar Borisov and the Executive Director of the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control Petya Alexandrova. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by the MP Nikolay Alexandrov. According to the importers, the purpose of the proposed bill is to create an electronic platform for the sale of properties, as well as properties owned by commercial companies with more than 50 percent State participation in the capital of commercial companies whose shares or shares are owned by a commercial company with more than 50 percent state participation in capital. Through the electronic platform, regional managers will sell properties with a tax assessment below 10,000. lv. There are corresponding amendments to the State Property Act concerning the powers of the district governors. The benefits of the adoption of the Bill will be mainly in facilitating the process of sale of properties by attracting a larger number of persons to participate in sales and achieving higher prices of the properties sold. The costs of the construction of the electronic platform are envisaged to be at the expense of the Ministry of Economy. The adoption of the bill does not provide for structural changes in the administration. The administrative burden for businesses, investors and individuals involved in the property sale process is expected to be reduced as their time limits and costs for participation in the process will be reduced and the transparency of the overall activity will be increased. The Ministry of Economy and the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control support the Bill. The Ministry of Finance supports the Bill in principle by expressing the following remarks: § 1 for the creation of a new art. 3a is in a Coliseum with the current provisions of the Privatization Act and post-privatization control in the part with which the possibility of selling by the trading company itself is regulated; there is no real assessment of the expected effects, including the necessary financial resources for the construction and maintenance of the electronic platform; the proposed changes should be subject to a thorough analysis of the costs and their expected benefits for the implementation of the proposed arrangement. The written opinion of the Department of Health and Law of the European Union of the National Assembly states the need to clarify the content of the sale of parts of the medical establishments listed in Annex 1 of the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Act. People's representatives from the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria "Peter Kanev," Rumen Gechev and Dimitar Danchev raised questions about the sale of assets to sites from the so-called "Forbidden List" and their relationship with the Law; about the lack of comparative analysis of the effectiveness of the construction of such an electronic platform; about the lack of coordination of the Law with the State Agency. The asked questions were answered by the MPs Nikolay Alexandrov, Deputy Minister Lachezar Borisov and the Executive Director of the Privatization Agency and Post-Privatization Control Petya Alexandrova. Following the conclusion of the discussion and vote with results:.........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u80	Thank you, Mr. Kanev. There is no report from the Committee on Legal Affairs. The word for an importer's opinion is Mr. Alexandrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u81	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, a group of colleagues and I have tabled a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. I will read to you, therefore, the following reasons why our proposal is motivated. One of the activities currently carried out by the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency is to sell state-owned property or managed by various state institutions. Until now, this activity has been carried out exclusively by the Agency's team, and in certain cases sales are carried out through the electronic platform of the Bulgarian Stock Exchange. However, only stock packages can be traded on the Exchange, but not properties. At present, the Privatization and Post-Privatization Control Agency offers for sale mainly different sizes and intended properties, the procedures for which are too severe and prolonged. In this respect, the possibilities for the construction of an electronic platform could be made available to the offered properties of private State ownership, as well as the properties of commercial companies with more than 50 per cent State participation in the capital of commercial companies whose shares or shares are owned by a commercial company with more than 50 per cent State capital participation have been ordered. The electronic platform will also be able to sell private government property with a tax assessment of up to 10 thousand. BGN, which is carried out by a district manager at the location of the property. The creation of an electronic platform for the sale of state property will result in significant facilitation of their sale process. Greater transparency will be ensured and the property listings will reach a larger range of interested parties, which in turn will lead to higher prices for the property sold, and a facility for investors in their investment intentions. The platform will make it possible to exchange information as quickly as possible and will generally improve the sales process. With the creation of an electronic platform, one of the main goals of e-government will be achieved: increasing the needs of citizens, and encouraging their participation in the process of sales of state property. The effectiveness of the work and quality of the service provided by the Privatization Agency and post-privatization control will be improved. The electronic platform for the sale of State property will reduce the time limits under the sale procedure and will reduce the administrative burden on citizens and businesses, as it will reduce the costs for those persons, for their participation in the sale process and will increase the transparency of the entire activity. The good practices that have been studied in this direction also come from the Hellenic Republic, where such a platform for the marketing and sale of public property is developed. For this reason, a group of colleagues and I have motivated and brought to your attention this bill, which has also been reviewed by the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism to the National Assembly. There arose some questions and, accordingly, a very broad debate was received on the subject itself. I think some of the questions have been answered. As far as I am concerned, there has also been a working group and between lawyers are discussed absolutely all the concerns that colleagues have. As I have expressed myself and I suppose that in the current debate, which will eventually arise in this House, we are inclined and will look in this direction at all the concerns that fellow Members have to be cleared. Indeed, to be able to sit down and legally work out the most correct texts if anyone has doubts that a text is not 100% refined. So this will also be the entrance to the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u82	Thank you, Mr. Alexandrov. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you go, Mr. Boychev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u83	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of parliament, the BSP parliamentary group will refrain from supporting this bill and I would like to motivate this vote. We have nothing against this good initiative for more publicity and transparency of the privatisation process, all the more so that, back in time, we have witnessed this type of sales by regional managers and parts of state-owned companies, and this has caused not one or two scandals that we have dealt with. We have expressed a number of concerns and questions, firstly, in the way this bill is presented by many MPs, without doing so by the relevant ministries and the Agency, whose powers and responsibilities it has. There are a number of technical questions to which we did not get a satisfactory answer at the hearing in the Commission: how, in what way, for what account, how will this platform be implemented? We will participate in the debate between the first and second votes and hope that these questions will be answered there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u84	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u85	Madam President, honourable Members! In principle, the Bill is a very good idea to be able to ensure at least transparency in the conduct of tender procedures for the sale of various properties owned by the State. This will facilitate business on how to participate in procedures. I would like to open a clamp and it is related to the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law itself, as it refers to the Law on State Property, which is art. 44 of the Law, where the two main options for sale of properties are justified, namely: below 10 thousand. lv. More than 10 thousand were the district governors and more than 10 thousand were the local governors. lv. The Privatization Agency. As this is the last change since 2016, when the Privatisation Agency is already selling more expensive properties than 10,000. BGN, instead of the regional governors, in this regard I think it is appropriate to use the platform itself from the exceptions in this order, namely those which are under art. 47 of the State Property Act, for properties worth over half a million, sold by the Minister of Defence or the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. It is also nice to be able to participate in the platform and to register the properties they sell in the platforms so that there may ultimately be no exceptions and be covered by all of the same common platform and thus have maximum transparency in the sale of state property. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u86	Thank you, dear Mr. Gadget. Are there any lines? I won't. Statements? Here you are, dear Mr. Kanev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u87	Colleagues, since the break is coming, I'm going to be very brief. Last Wednesday, we watched this bill in the Commission, and a working group was established on Thursday. A lot of questions have cleared up. One question remains on which I have signed a letter to Kiril Ananiev to answer how we will proceed with the separate units, hospitals' sites. My speech is on another occasion. Recently this is a request to GERB and the entire ruling coalition, there is a continuous submission of bills, which are neither urgent nor rapid, by MPs. I am not a new MP and I have to tell you that it is not a good practice when laws are regularly introduced at the last moment by MPs. Moreover, they are not bills that concern tomorrow's problem. Like this law with the electronic platform, as today we will see two laws in the Economic Commission again with MPs, and once again they are not current, who are in a hurry, from today to tomorrow, to accept them. I understand the introduction of a bill to resolve the changes to the hunting law past the African plague and the situation in Romania. That's a yes. In fact, I think that all the parliamentary groups within two readings, within a day, two, three, should make a decision, because from this story, the Baltic republics had liquidated pig farming with half a billion dollars in losses. So, yes. But when a law matures as an idea for months, for years and suddenly it is introduced by the MPs, it is not good practice. This is my proposal to you as a ruling coalition. Thank you and enjoy your rest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u88	Thank you. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control, No 854-01-55, submitted by Nikolay Alexandrov and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018. They voted 83 MPs: 56, none against, abstention 27. The proposal is not accepted because the quorum is 64 people. Here you go, Mr. Alexandrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u89	Madam President, I am proposing a re-vote and that this should happen in view of the break that has taken place. If not, it can't be. The other option is to run a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u90	You're proposing a re-voting after the break? [[Noise and lines.]] There's no way that's going to happen. We're going to vote. Please mobilize.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u91	I am officially doing a re-voting procedure because there were colleagues who failed to vote. In view of this, a name check.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u92	We're overreacting. Please take your seats, honourable Members, and vote. We are voting on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. They voted 105 MPs: 77, none, abstention 28. The proposal has been passed, and so has the Bill. We'll take half an hour off. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u93	Colleagues, we're going through. to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR REGISTERATION AND CONTROL OF EARTH AND GREEN TECHNOLOGY. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018. He was accepted in the first vote on 13 June 2018. Please, Mrs. Dimova, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u94	Thank you, Madam President. Please vote for admission in the hall of Dr. Tsvetan Dimitrov
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u95	Please, vote mode to allow the guests in the Chamber. Vote 67 MPs: for 67, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u96	On 1 June 2018, the Council of Ministers submitted a report on a draft amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment, No 802 01-20, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 1 June 2018, adopted at the first vote on 13 June 2018. The Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment is amended and supplemented. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u97	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the name of the Law which the Commission supports. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u98	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1. According to § 2, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 3, para. 1 is added at the end as well as for internal combustion engines for out-of-the-way machinery.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u99	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 1 by importer and the version of § 2 by the Commission Report. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u100	According to § 3, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 the delegated acts and its implementing acts shall be added at the end; 2. point 2 is amended as follows: "2." Competent authority by type-approval and market surveillance authority within the meaning of art. 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 September 2016 on requirements for gaseous and particulate pollutants emission limits and type-approval of internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery, amending Regulations (EU) No 1024/2012 and (EU) No 167/2013 and amending and repealing Directive 97/68/EC (OB, L 252 of 16 September 2016)), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 3 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u101	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 3 of the Commission Report. Vote 92 MPs: for 91, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u102	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u103	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 4, which the Commission supports. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u104	According to § 5, there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of §5: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall establish and maintain a national public electronic register: 1. for registration, reporting and control of the equipment and of the persons who have acquired competence to work with it; 2. to EU type-approval certificates issued or national type-approvals; 3. to persons who are authorised for theoretical and practical training of applicants for the acquisition of a licence to work with a technique; 4. of lecturers conducting training of candidates for the acquisition of skills for working with a technique. 2. In para. 2 after the words "al." The following shall be added: 3. They're creating an al. 3 and 4: The Register shall be established and maintained in accordance with the Law on Electronic Governance and comply with the requirements of the Personal Data Protection Act. (4) The information to be included in the register under para. 1, t. 1, 3 and 4 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 13, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u105	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of § 5 of the Commission Report. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u106	According to § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Dessislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments and additions are 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: Only the following shall be placed on the market: 1. a technique which meets the requirements for type-approval under Regulation (EU) No 167/2013 or under the ordinance under art. 9b, para. 8; 2. internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery which meet the requirements for type-approval pursuant to Regulation (EU) 2. In para. 2, p. 6 after the word "Observation" is added "Movement." 3. The creation of para. 4. The internal combustion engines under para. 2, p. 6 shall be divided into categories according to art. 4 of Regulation (EU)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u107	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 6 of the Commission Report. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u108	According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7: .................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9a The following amendments and additions shall be 1. In para. 1: (a) in the text before t. 1: (aa) in the first sentence, the words "to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests' shall be replaced by "for each type according to the model', according to the regulation under para. 12ss and 12s; (bb) A new sentence shall be created second: the application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. (c) the previous sentence second becomes the third sentence; (b) point 1 is amended as follows: "1." a registration document issued by a competent authority of the country of registration translated into Bulgarian language, where the manufacturer is not registered in the Republic of Bulgaria; (c) c. 4 is added at the end when the payment has not been made e-mail address (s) and e-mail address (s) and 2. In para. The 5th sentence is first amended as follows: When deficiencies or incompletes are detected in the documents under para. 1, the Committee on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the 3. In para. The 9th sentence is amended as follows: a certificate holder is kept in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. 4. In para. 11 after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u109	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 7 of the Commission Report. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u110	According to § 8 there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9b the following 1. So far, text becomes para. 1 and amended as follows: For national type-approval of trailers and interchangeable coupling equipment, the manufacturer or his representative shall submit a separate application for each type according to the model in accordance with the regulation under para. 8. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a registration document issued by a competent authority of the country of registration where the manufacturer is not registered in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. a notary certified copy of the document by which the representative is authorised by the manufacturer 3. technical documentation as defined in the ordinance under para. 8; 4. a document for a state fee paid for issuing a national type-approval certificate where the payment has not been made electronically. 2. They're creating an al. 2.. In the case of an application for national type-approval, a technical file as defined in the Regulation under para 2 shall be drawn up. 8. (3) Within one month of the date of submission of the application under para. 1 The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue or refuse to issue a certificate of national type-approval of equipment. (4) When deficiencies or incompletes are identified in the documents under para. 1, the Committee on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of The term under para. 3 stops running until the deficiencies or incompletes in the documents are resolved. (5) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue a certificate of national type-approval where: 1. the rules for conformity of production laid down in the regulation under para. 1. are fulfilled. 8; 2. the type of technique corresponds to the data specified in the technical documentation; 3. the type of technique meets the requirements laid down in the regulation under para. 8. (6) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall refuse to issue a certificate of national type-approval of trailers and interchangeable coupling equipment where the requirements of para. 5. The refusal shall be notified and may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (7) For the issue of a national type-approval certificate, the applicant shall pay to the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry a fee under the tariff under art. 17, para. 1. A copy of the certificate shall be kept in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. (8) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall lay down by regulation the conditions and procedures for carrying out national type-approval for trailers and interchangeable coupling equipment and for issuing a certificate for national type-approval.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u111	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 8 of the Commission Report. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Taneva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u112	According to § 9, an importer has received a proposal from the National Representative Dessislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9: ..................................................... Article 9c is amended as Art. 9c. (1) For the issue of an EU type-approval certificate for each type of internal combustion engines under art. 9, para. 2, p. 6 or engine families, the manufacturer or his representative shall submit a separate application under a model approved by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, subject to the requirements of art. 20 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628. The model shall be published on the website of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a document for registration issued by a competent authority of the country of registration translated into Bulgarian language where the manufacturer is not registered in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. a notary certified copy of the document by which the representative is authorised by the manufacturer 3. technical documentation according to art. 21 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628; 4. a declaration by the applicant that no documents for the approval of the same type of engine or engine families have been submitted to an approval authority of another Member State of the European Union. (2) Measurements and tests for EU type-approval shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of art. 24 and 25 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628. (3) Within one month of the date of submission of the application under para. 1 The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue or refuse an EU type-approval certificate. (4) When deficiencies or incompletes are identified in the documents under para. 1, the Committee on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of Bulgaria, on the Law of the Republic of The term under para. 3 shall cease to run from the date of receipt of the notification until the deficiencies or deficiencies in the documents have been resolved. (5) Upon application for EU type-approval, the approval authority shall draw up a technical file pursuant to art. 22 (6) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628. (6) When the requirements of art. 22 (1) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628 and exhaust emissions shall comply with the requirements of art. 18 (2) of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue an EU type-approval certificate for all requested types or engine families. (7) The certificate under para. 6 shall be issued in accordance with Article 6. 23 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628. (8) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall refuse to issue an EU type-approval certificate for engine type or engine families when the requirements of para. 6. The refusal shall be notified and may be appealed under the Administrative Procedure Code. (9) For the issue of an EU type-approval certificate, the applicant shall pay the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry a fee under art. 17, para. 1. A copy of the certificate shall be kept in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. (10) The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall empower and notify technical services pursuant to Chapter XII of Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u113	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 9 of the Commission Report. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u114	According to § 10 the importer has received a proposal from the National Representative Dessislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10: ..................................................... A new article shall be created. 9d: Art. Nine years. (1) The activities of the Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry in type-approval pursuant to Regulation (EU) No 167/2013 and Regulation (EU) 2016/1628 shall be assisted by a permanent panel of experts. The composition of the committee shall be determined by order of the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. (2) The organisation of work of the Committee under para. 1 for each type-approval procedure shall be determined by the regulations referred to in Article 1 respectively. 9a, para. Art. 12 and under Art. 9b, para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u115	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 10 of the Commission Report. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u116	According to § 11 the importer has received a proposal from the National Representative Dessislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9e the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 3 after the word "outside', the words "on the basis of an engine type-approval certificate or an engine family' shall be replaced by the words "on the basis of an engine type-approval certificate or an engine family if the type-approval mark has been affixed to the approved type'. 4............................................................................................ 2. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The placing on the market of new engines installed or intended for installation in non-road mobile machinery shall be carried out on the basis of: 1. Certificate under art. 9c, para. 6 under the mark of conformity with the approved type, subject to art. 34 and 58 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628; 2. certificate of compliance, where applicable under art. 31 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628 translated into Bulgarian; 3. schedule according to Annex III to Regulation (EU) 2016/1628 applicable to the category concerned. 3. Alinea 6 is amended as follows: The provision on the market and entry into service of trailers and interchangeable coupling equipment subject to national approval shall be carried out in accordance with the regulation under art. 9b, para. 8.....................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u117	Statements? I don't see any speeches. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 11 of the Commission Report. Vote 98 MPs: 95, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u118	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12: ................................................................................... Article 3 is inserted in Chapter 3. 10d: Art. 10 years. (1) The terms and conditions of registration of vehicles for any terrain other than those of category L7e-B pursuant to Regulation (EU) No would apply to the approval and market surveillance of two-, three- and four-wheel vehicles (OB, L 60 of 2 March 2013) and multi-purpose out-of-road vehicles for the transport of persons and goods shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 11, para. 9. (2) Vehicles under para. 1 may move by way of exception on roads open for public use, in order determined by the ordinance under art. 140, para. 6 of the Road Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u119	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Yankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u120	Thank you. Madam President, honourable Members! In this way, the proposed art. 10 I suggest that it be supplemented by para. 3, namely: The movement of self-propelled machinery with engine power up to 10 kW on local roads open for public use shall be carried out exceptionally for the operation of agricultural and forestry activities and in the absence of agricultural and/or forestry roads when moving to and/or from the place of work. The person who controls the self-propelled technique shall not be fined under art. 175, para. 3 of the Road Traffic Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u121	Thank you, dear Mr. Yankov. Colleagues, you have a say in this. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] There was a statement. A line? [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] Here's a line for you, Mr. Yankov. [[Noise and lines.]] You mean in the form of a speech, or was it a procedure? [[Replication by MP Zapriyan Yankov.]] Suggestion as a procedure. It was marked as a statement, but it is a procedure for a proposal to supplement. Here you go. [[Noise and lines.]] Come on, give me a line. [[Replication by National Representative Krasimir Yankov.]] You couldn't vote, and you have a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u122	My line is to my colleague. Colleague, do you think that this proposal you are making is editorial, because in this House, before a vote, you can only do editorial? Explain! [[Noise and lines. A line from the MP Zapreyan Yankov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u123	Any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by Mr. Yankov to supplement art. 10d, para. 3. 100 MPs voted: 94, against 4, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the version of § 12 of the Commission Report, together with the text voted. Vote 94 MPs: for 92, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u124	According to § 13 of the importer there is a proposal received by the National Representative Dessislava Taneva, which the Commission supports. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 in a sentence, first after the word "application', a template is added according to the regulation under para. The information database shall be replaced by the register. 2. In para. 4. (a) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. a registration document issued by a competent authority by the country of registration, translated into Bulgarian when the owner is not registered in the Republic of Bulgaria; (b) c. 8 words or a valid certificate of conformity to a national type approved according to the ordinance under art. 9 (b) are deleted; (c) point 10 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u125	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the editorials of Paragraph 13 of the Commission Report. Vote 97 MPs: for 96, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u126	Under Paragraph 14 of an importer, the Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of Paragraph 14: ......... 14......................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall lay down, by regulation, the terms and conditions for: 1. training of candidates for the acquisition of skills for working with a technique; 2. issue of a certificate for the registration of training forms for the acquisition of a licence to work with a technique; 3. carrying out control of the activities under point 3. 1 and 2. ............................................... 2. In para. 3 after the word "technics" shall be added according to the model according to the regulation under para. 2 and the words.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u127	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 14 of the Commission Report. Vote 96 MPs: 95, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Dimova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u128	According to § 15 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Svetla Bachvarova and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 13a, 13b and 13c: Art. 13a. (1) The minimum age of persons to acquire a licence to work with equipment from the categories under art. 13, para. 4 is 18 years old. (2) The training for acquiring a licence may begin at the earliest 6 months before the applicant reaches the necessary age under para. 1 and for training on state-acceptance plan in school vocational education one year. Art. 13b. (1) The theoretical and practical training of applicants for the acquisition of technology shall be carried out in registered learning forms on the basis of a certificate of registration issued by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. (2) For carrying out the training under para. 1 shall be registered: 1. persons registered under the Commercial Register Act and the Register of Non-Profit Legal Entities; 2. persons registered under the legislation of another Member State of the European Union or of a Party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area; 3. professional high schools, professional colleges, secondary schools with vocational training classes and higher schools accredited under the Law on Higher Education. (3) For entry in the register under art. 7, para. 1 persons under para. 2 submit to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry an application according to a model according to the ordinance under art. 13, para. 2. The application shall be submitted in person, by proxy, by electronic means under the terms and by the order of art. 5 and 22 of the Law on Electronic Governance or through a licensed postal operator. The application shall be accompanied by: 1. a document for registration issued by a competent authority of the country of registration translated into Bulgarian language where the applicant is not registered in the Republic of Bulgaria; 2. a notary certified copy of the demand, where the applicant is a representative; 3. a copy of the act for the creation or transformation of the persons under para. 2, p. 3. (4) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue a certificate for the registration of a training form for the acquisition of competence to work with the equipment of the persons under para. 2 for each training centre separately in the presence of: 1. own or rented for a period not less than the period for carrying out the training premises.. School offices, educational sites and polygons which meet the requirements laid down in the regulation under art. 13, para. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2. own or rented for a period not less than the term of the training equipment certificate registered under art. 11, para. 1 which has undergone a mandatory technical examination ensuring its technical performance and safety and has a valid insurance..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 3. lecturer in theory: (a) a person with higher technical education in a specialty qualified to be qualified for the technique for which training is carried out; (b) a teacher of professional competence to work with the technique for which training is being conducted; 4. lecturer in practice, a person with higher technical education: (a) in the field of forestry or forestry mechanisation, category Tvk-D and Tpps; (b) in the field of wood mechanical technology or wood mechanisation, with capacity to work with category Tps; c) ability to work with category Tvk, Tvk-Z and Tvk-M. (5) The certificate under para. 4 shall be issued for a period of 5 years. The period may be extended by another 5 years when an extension application has been submitted before the expiry of the certificate. (6) The issue of the registration certificate as well as the verification of the extension of the period of the certificate already issued shall be carried out within two months of the submission of the application. (7) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall be motivated to refuse the issue or extension of the registration certificate where the requirements of para. Three and four. The refusal shall be notified and may be appealed under the order of the Administrative Procedure Code. (8) The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall, by order, revoke the issued registration certificate: 1. upon termination of the activity of the person entered in the register and deletion of his registration in the relevant public register; 2. with expiry of the period for which it was issued; 3. on application of the person recorded in the register; 4. where it is established by official or by an act of a competent authority that: (a) the person recorded in the register has used incorrect data when submitting the application for the issue or extension of the certificate; (b) the person listed in the register shall allow training to be carried out in breach of the educational documentation or where the study cabinet, the school site, the polygon, the lecturers or the technique cease to comply with the requirements of para. 4 and of the ordinance under art. 13, para. 2. (9) In the cases under para. 8 the right to carry out training is terminated. The cancellation order shall be notified and subject to appeal under the Administrative Procedure Code. (10) Persons whose certificate has been revoked may apply for a new certificate not earlier than one year from the date of entry into force of the cancellation order. Art. 13c. (1) The training documentation for the acquisition of competence for the operation of the equipment shall include: 1. qualification; 2. study plan and curricula for each category; 3. a training licence of the applicant according to a model attached to the training documentation for the relevant category of competence. (2) The conditions and procedure for validating the educational documentation under para. 1 shall be determined by the ordinance referred to in Article 1. 13, para. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u129	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 15 of the Commission Report. Vote 101 MPs: for 100, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u130	According to § 16 there is a proposal from the MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 texts before t. 1 is amended as follows: the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry empowers officials to organise and supervise the market of equipment under art. 9, para. 2, p. 1 " 5" according to art. Article 5 (4) and Article 5 (4) 7 of Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: 2. In para. 3 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in 3. Paragraph 4 is amended as follows: The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall empower officials to organise and supervise the market of new engines installed or intended for installation in non-road mobile machinery, pursuant to art. Art. 5, par. 5, art. 7 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628 by carrying out checks on: 1. existence of an EU type-approval certificate for engines or engine families bearing an approval mark with an approved type; 2. existence of a certificate of conformity, where applicable, according to art. 31 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628; 3. fulfilling the requirements of art. 34 and 58 of Regulation (EU) 2016/1628; 4. the actions taken by the economic operators referred to in Chapter II of Regulation (EU) 4. In para. 5 after the word "the products', a point shall be placed and the text to the end shall be deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u131	Paragraph 16 statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 15 of the Commission Report. Vote 98 MPs: 97, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u132	Under § 17 a proposal has been made by the MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15a The following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) c. 3 the words "valid declaration of conformity' shall be replaced by a certificate of conformity, where applicable, according to art. 31 of Regulation (EU) (b) c. 4 the engines installed or intended to be installed in a mobile machinery shall be added at the end; (c) c. 6 the words for termination of the registration for the conduct of a teaching activity under this law shall be replaced by the withdrawal of the certificate for the acquisition of a teaching ability to work with a technique. 2. In para. 3 after the word
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u133	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 17 of the Commission report. Vote 99 MPs: for 98, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u134	Under § 18 a proposal has been made by the MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 18: .............................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15b are made the following additions: 1. In the text before t. 1 after the word "technics', new engines installed or intended for installation in non-road mobile machinery shall be added. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 at the end is added and market surveillance. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 after the word "technics' the engine shall be added to the engine, mounted or intended to be installed in the mobile machinery. 4. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 after the words "Regulation (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u135	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of Paragraph 18 of the Commission Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u136	100 MPs voted: 99, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u137	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 19. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u138	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote three texts: the first text of the applicant for § 19, the second text of the applicant for § 20, and the third text of the importer for § 21. All three texts shall be supported by the Commission. 100 MPs voted: 98, none, abstention 2. The texts are being adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u139	Under § 22 a proposal has been made by the MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The additional provisions shall make the following amendments and additions: 1. In § 1: (a) points 1 and 3 are repealed; (b) c. 6 the terms of the regulations referred to in art. 9b and 9c shall be replaced by the procedure referred to in art. 9b, para. Article 8 (c) and (d) shall be added to Article 8 (a) and (b) and (c) and (d) respectively. 32 and 33 of Regulation (EU) (c) c. 8 shall be added at the end of the procedure referred to in Article 8. 96, para. 8, Regulation (EU) No is amended as follows: (d) points 9, 11, 13, 18, 19 and 20 are repealed; (e) c. 30 the words "in" shall be replaced by the definitions referred to in art. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1): (f) c. 32 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / (g) c. 35 words.............................................................................. The Commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance 2. Paragraph 1a is amended as follows: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way. This law ensures the application of Regulation (EU) No 167/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 5 February 2013 on the approval and market surveillance of agricultural and forestry vehicles, Regulation 2016/1628 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 September 2016 on requirements for emission limits for gaseous and particulate pollutants and type-approval of internal combustion engines for non-road mobile machinery, amending Regulations (EU) No 1024/2012 and (EU) No
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u140	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 22. Vote 107 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 3. Text accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u141	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u142	Statements? I won't. I put two texts to the vote: the first text is the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision, the second text is the text of the importer on the content of § 23. The two texts shall be supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u143	A proposal from MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new § 24 and 25: .................................................................................. In the Law on Road Traffic (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 143, para. 5 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." agricultural and forestry tractors which are subject to registration under the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment. § 25. In the Law on Food (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 2a the following amendments and additions are made: 1. So far, text becomes para. 1. 2. The creation of para. 2: In the exercise of its powers under para. 1 The Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry shall issue regulations on specific requirements for food safety and quality.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u144	Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create two new paragraphs - 24 and 25 - on a proposal from the Commission. Vote 105 MPs: for 104, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u145	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 26. A proposal has been made under § 25 by the MP Desislava Taneva. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u146	Statements? I won't. I shall put two texts to the vote: the first text shall be the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 26. The second text is the text of the importer for § 25, which becomes § 27. The two paragraphs shall be supported by the Commission. Voted 103 MPs: for 102, against none, abstention 1. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u147	The Commission supports the text of the importer, but proposes that § 26 be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u148	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's motion to reject § 26. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention. The proposal is adopted by which we conclude the second vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Registration and Control of Agricultural and Forestry Equipment with the importer of the Council of Ministers. Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with the next, sixth point of the Work Programme: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FISHING AND AQUACULTURES. Bringers are Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs. Report from the Committee on Agriculture and Food. Mrs. Taneva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u149	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the House on the item on the agenda of Mr. Ivaylo Simeonov, Director of the General Policy Directorate in the field of hydromillions and fisheries.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. I shall put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber. Vote 101 MPs: 98 against 2, abstention 1. The offer is accepted. Please invite Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u151	♪ I can't believe on the first vote of the Committee on Agriculture and Food on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 854-01-57, submitted by the National Representative Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs on 20 June 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held two consecutive meetings on 21 and 27 June 2018, discussing the quoted bill. The Commission's meetings were attended by experts from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry and the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture. The Ministry explained that the current provisions of the Law refer to repealed European legislation and do not correspond to the established European requirements for recognition of producer organisations. At the same time, there is no legal basis for issuing a regulation by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. In this regard, the Bill repealed the existing order of recognition of industry organisations in the fisheries sector and enabled the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to lay down by regulation the terms and conditions for recognition of producer organisations, associations of producer organisations and interbranch organisations at national level. In its opinion, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry generally supports the Bill by proposing that the basic parameters to be determined by the Regulation be described in the Law. They propose to provide for a procedure which, following the relevant verification of whether the already recognised branch organisations meet the relevant European requirements to allow them to be recognised under the current European legislation. Given the important role of those organisations in the collective management of the system of allocation of total allowable catches, it is proposed to provide for the possibility for producer organisations and their associations to participate in the allocation of individual quotas. The discussions held at the two meetings may be summarised as follows: Among the parliamentary groups of the BSP for Bulgaria and of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, they assessed as unacceptable the procedure under which the bill was tabled and said that the retrial of changes in the same law for an extremely short period of time undermines the prestige of the Commission. They pointed out that the Ministry should synchronise these texts with the applicable European legislation in the context of the procedure for examining the previous amendments to the Law. They recalled that changes were proposed in the Law on the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union, where similar texts were laid down and also provided for a basis for the issuance of a regulation relating to the recognition of branch organisations in the sector. They noted as unacceptable the lack of opinions from the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, the Managing Authority and the relevant branch organisations. On the substance of the proposed changes, they stressed that even now there is no obstacle for the Minister to recognise producer organisations. They noted that the existing detailed order is replaced by common texts where there are no parameters for the terms and conditions under which organisations will be recognised. According to them, the criteria should be laid down in the Law and not in a regulation. In this regard, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms (JRC) recommended that between the first and second reading of the Bill texts be proposed, which do not raise doubts in society that the Minister will, at his discretion, decide which organisations to recognise. In view of the arguments put forward, the BSP for Bulgaria (BSP) said that they will not support the bill, but will make their proposals between the first and second votes. The President of the Commission recalled that the Bill was tabled at the explicit request of the Ministry. He stated that he shared some of the arguments put forward and urged the Ministry to take measures and not to allow the lack of coordination in the future. Rated as a mistake the change of regulations concerning industry organisations without holding a public debate, but pointed out that during the public discussion of changes in the Law on the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union, coordination meetings were held with stakeholders, including with the industry that had reached the necessary agreement. In conclusion, he recommended, when preparing his opinion on the proposals between the first and second votes of the Bill, that the Ministry comply with the recommendations made and stressed that the texts should be synchronised with the proposals in the European Union's Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets Act. After the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 11 votes.... 8 votes against..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u152	Thank you, Mrs. Taneva. Presentation by an importer. Mr. Apostolov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u153	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable colleagues, dear Mrs. Taneva! The common organisation of the markets (OOPs) of fishery and aquaculture products is one of the pillars of the common fisheries policy and represents the European Union's management policy on the market in fishery and aquaculture products. At European level, the CMO of fishery and aquaculture products is established by Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, amending Council Regulations (EC) No 1184/2006 and (EC) No 1224/2009 and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No It also lays down the general conditions for recognition of producer organisations, associations and interbranch organisations in the sector. The currently in force Fisheries and Aquaculture Act does not regulate the recognition of producer organisations, associations of producer organisations and interbranch organisations in the fisheries and aquaculture sector within the meaning of the current Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013. In this regard, it is necessary to establish a common framework with regard to the recognition of organisations in the fisheries sector which are relevant to European legislation. By changing the texts of art. 10 and 10c of the Fisheries and Aquaculture Act provides conditions at national level for recognition of producer organisations, associations of producer organisations and interbranch organisations in the fisheries and aquaculture sector. The amendments are also necessary due to the repeal of Council Regulation (EC) No are hereby repealed on 17 December 1999 on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products by Regulation (EU) No 1379/2013. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10d provides for the possibility for the conditions and arrangements for their recognition to be governed by a regulation issued by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. In addition, it is necessary to update the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture and all relevant texts............................................................................................ Art. 16 and art. 29. Due to the essential role of such organisations in implementing the common fisheries policy and the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, instruments for their support under the European Maritime and Fisheries Fund have been created through the Maritime and Fisheries Programme 2014-2020. The establishment of conditions for their recognition is expected to be a prerequisite for the implementation of objectives set out in the Maritime and Fisheries Programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u154	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. My fellow Members, I am opening the debates on the proposed bill. You have the floor, Mr. Abase.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u155	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Parliamentary Group will not support the proposed draft on two groups of considerations: firstly, in the way of submission, and, secondly, in substance. In the way of submission, as well as my colleague Kanev spoke on the previous bill under discussion that they were submitted at the last minute by the MP, not by the ministry or the Council of Ministers, I would like to remind everyone the chronology of the submission of this bill. Colleagues, before the introduction of this bill there was another on the same topic of the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. This bill was tabled in April and we voted on it last week. This means that four weeks we discussed the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture.. first reading, second reading, committees, proposals, editorials, proposals of the Ministry, of the Agency, etc. Notice, on the day we voted at second reading, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, on the same day in this House, when we voted on this law, another Law amending and supplementing the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture is introduced in the National Assembly. This bill enters the National Assembly's Law at 11:20 p.m. At 16.30 p.m. on the same day, we receive an announcement that a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture and Food is being convened the next day at 3 p.m. before 24 hours have passed since the submission. Colleagues, this lightning speed for the movement of the bill is serious ambiguities within us, because both our parliamentary group and the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria and we have laws that are aged eight months, one year without movement on them. This bill comes in at 11:20, gets a move on the same afternoon, and a commission is scheduled for the next day before 24 hours have passed. We do not approve of this method of import, this undermines the foundations of parliamentaryism in Bulgaria. This is a regular practice of colleagues on the right. These are our considerations regarding the bill being submitted or under the procedure. Get to the point. The importer just announced that there is no procedure in the current Law for the approval of branch organizations. Yes, you are! Colleagues, carefully read Art. 10 of the Law, where very detailed, I think, are described in detail the ways, order, rules and conditions for registering branch organizations in the sector. It is not true that the Ministry is not able to issue a regulation because it is in the same article. 10 is mentioned that the Minister has such an opportunity. From the thus made statement of the importer, I agree with only one thing that the scheduled order is not according to the new regulation. In the current current article. 10 The legal basis for the procedure in which producer organisations will be approved is a regulation of 2003. Then, in the Commission, I suggested that we change only one thing.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. You remove details of the procedure for setting up producer organisations and replace it with a single sentence: The Minister has the right to approve producer organisations. Period. Colleagues, why don't you go on with one more sentence of the 2013 regulation?! Don't write that. So, what's the change? In the Commission, when we examined the Draft Law, there was no opinion from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests, there was no opinion from the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, there was no opinion from the State Fund for Agriculture, the sector. Last but not least: colleagues, there was no opinion from branch organizations. Branch organisations in Bulgaria are many. When changing a law concerning these same branch organisations, it is unacceptable to move or accept anything, provided that there is no opinion from them. This is unacceptable! With the texts you're proposing, which I innocently wrote, are a member of the so-and-so, paragraph of the so-and-so, do you know what's going on? Rights of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture shall be revoked. And this is not the first or the last time you have seized the Agency's powers to approve projects, you are now seizing the Agency's powers to deal with branch organizations and transferring them to a newly created Directorate in the Ministry, which has a controversial capacity for me. If I'm being honest, there's no capacity. It is very doubtful how this Directorate will deal with the obligations you have transferred from a long-standing Agency to a newly established Directorate in the Ministry, which has no capacity. In this proposal Draft, with one sentence: "The Minister has the right to set up producer organisations.................................................................................................................................................................................................................... At least make the effort for a second reading under the new 2013 Regulation to sign the basic parameters, to sign the macro-frame, which the regulation will then detail. With this one sentence: The minister has the right to approve producer organisations. We simply open a door in the field. And even more dubiously, the Minister will issue a new regulation! I have a bad memory of the Regulation on school fruit and school milk, and if things go that way, the tension in society will not go down, on the contrary will increase. So with this bill, colleagues, we do not solve the problems of the branch organizations, nor organizational problems of the IRA and the Ministry, and even more so we do not reduce the tensions in society that regulations are written and laws that benefit one or two organizations. Last but not least, all these bills that are being proposed do not solve the problems of society. On the contrary, they are fueling a tension that is in the air, and, colleagues, we do not solve the problems of the industry. I would like to ask: not with this approach, which you are working with not only in the part of...................... and in others.. just to accept normal practice these bills to be proposed by the Council of Ministers and by the relevant ministries, to apply all the opinions of the organizations concerned, to analyze the impact of the law, which is also lacking here and to do things in the normal order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u156	Thank you, Mr. Abase. - What's the line? I won't. Are there any other statements? There is. Here you go. You have the floor, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u157	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would really like to start with the procedure for the introduction of the Bill and, accordingly, the decisions in the Committee on Agriculture and Food. On 20 June this year, we adopted the change in the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. On 20 June, a change is made to the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture. Moreover, the systematic place of these proposals is in the Law on the Implementation of the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets. Notice, a public discussion of this law ended on 30 June and its finalisation by the Ministry of Agriculture. It is said that it is very urgent, we will lose money on European funds and therefore we need to change the Law in this urgent order. I do not see the urgency, provided that the Regulation is from 2013. I also do not see the urgency we are talking about when the Maritime and Fisheries Programme is from 2014. We are now 2018 and suddenly at the last moment we decide that we will lose money. The question is: who is responsible precisely for the way in which the Programme is managed, the funds are being used and the opportunity is then given to the National Assembly in an urgent order to change a law, because, you see, someone has not done his job in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests? At first glance, the proposal being made relates to the withdrawal of functions of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture. Both in the previous GERB government and in what is currently in force is believed that the Directorates in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry have capacity and can carry out absolutely all activities in such a way as not to endanger any programme. Please note that the work of the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture on the implementation of the Programme has been transferred to the Directorate of the Ministry. What's the score? Eight percent agreed funds and one percent paid off. If this is a perfect job in 2018 from the change that was made in the previous years, we now expect the exact same. Because from the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, the activity of recognition of a producer organisation is transferred to the Directorate of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. No justification for what imposes this and why agencies that have to implement the legislation are suddenly emptying them out of content and dealing here with the previous change in the Law and how inspectors have to fight poachers, and everything that is related to the actual, professional work on the implementation of the Programme goes to the background and you see the results of what they are. My colleague said: in principle, we are strongly opposed to transferring functions from executive agencies to the directorates, because it is the directorates who are implementing the policy, the executive agencies who are implementing it. The mixing of the two things in the central government and in the Directorates of the Ministry creates a lot of problems and accordingly these problems reflect on the whole sector. The colleagues' proposal said a regulation would be proposed. Colleague A.S.A. said it was an order. What kind of regulation? To explain exactly what will be in this regulation. Whether four people will be producer organisations, whether seven, whether they will be individuals, whether they will be legal persons, this is absolutely unknown for the simple reason that the regulation the minister will issue it and all those who are interested or who have any contact with this Programme will learn, understand at the last moment how they should apply and what requirements they will have. Anyone who is ahead and aware of the procedure for approval of the regulation will therefore have an advantage in the approval of producer organisations. Last but not least, I tried to look for information about the implementation of Measure 5.3. Well, she's not even on the indicative schedule of the Maritime and Fisheries Programme. All of a sudden, we say we're gonna lose money at the end of the year. We have lost them anyway, but the reason is not in the National Assembly, is not in this urgent change. The reason is somewhere else and it is better to make a very valuable analysis of the implementation of the Programme and to look for opportunities for its better management, but clearly this cannot be done by Directorates in the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests. We claim that the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture has the capacity and opportunities to implement policies in this area. We will not support the bill. In fact, I suggest that you do not support it and withdraw it because it creates precedents that could hardly be explained outside as practices in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u158	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there lines? I won't. You have the floor to speak, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u159	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I have great respect for what Mr. Abase and Professor Bachvarova said. On the chronology I will not dwell on how, when, at what time, how many seconds has it been imported, but, Mr. A Base, I just want to tell you that there is no possibility in the current Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture for recognition of producer organisations and such producer organisations at this time there is no possibility. The law itself does not provide a legal basis for setting up producer organisations. Currently there are only two industry organizations recognised in accordance with art. 10c and, as I said, not a single producer organisation under the general article. 10, para. 1. There are two organisations of producers of so-called fishery products. In 2009 one producer organisation was recognised. The Black Sea Rise Association was recognized in 2011 and in 2011 the association was recognized. For your information, Mr Abase, and you know it very well, there is no information on both of these producers' organisations about a notification made by the European Commission regarding their creation. Naturally, this raises the question: how have these organisations been recognised, on what basis, in what way, should there be a number of other issues that I can put to you elsewhere and not from this tribune, because I respect you? At the same time, on 14 June 2018, there are a total of 214 producer organisations recognised in the European Union for aquaculture and 204 in the fisheries sector. And there are none in Bulgaria! This has required these urgent changes. Apart from that, Professor Bachvarova knows very well that, indeed on the day on which these changes were made, there was a letter from the European Commission and you, colleagues and Commissioners, were aware of these facts and circumstances of the Commission that if, by the end of the year, two producer organisations were not recognised, we would lose 65% of the funds under the Programme. I would like to say one more thing about the two existing associations of producers. One is registered as a non-profit corporate entity and has only representative functions in three sub-sectors in the sector. That is to say, under the new Regulation, this organisation must be transformed because it cannot unite the functions of three sectors. The sectors in which it is registered are for fish processing throughout the country, fish trade throughout the country, fishing for fish and other aquatic organisms, as well as aquaculture production. There are about 20 fish processing enterprises, three companies specialized in fish imports, that is, we do not have a producer organisation here, and eight Black Sea mussel producers, as well as owners of 80 fishing vessels. In this non-profit organisation we have a mixture of everything, but not of genuine fish producers and products derived from aquaculture. According to unconfirmed data, following an inquiry to the European Commission and to the regular meetings of the Director of the Executive Agency.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The second organization is also registered as a non-profit organization and is recognised as a branch organization of professional employees in the area of maritime fishing only in the Black Sea, north of Varna. These are the so-called "midden farms" from Varna up and around Cape Kaliakra. Among the members of this association there are also representatives of the fish processing industry, as well as those of marine crops. Also, according to informal data and to the meetings held, this association has shown an interest in meeting the requirements of Regulation 1379, but, unfortunately, the criteria of that regulation are too high and it is expected that this organisation will not be able to meet those criteria. That's it, guys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u160	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u161	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear colleague Apostolov, a distinction must be made between a branch organisation and a producer organisation. We are talking about a producer organisation and they have absolutely nothing in common. The fact is, however, that this regulation, which you say and which you propose to create, has absolutely no parameters to be able to say what will be the requirements of the producer organisation Secondly, I do not see how you can save the funds. Why? For this law, passing into two readings, a decree that is immediately ready, but was not presented to us even to see it in a construction, is a public discussion one month, opening a reception three months. I do not see by the end of the year how you will create an organization of producers to have the opportunity to absorb the funds? It's just impossible. December, write it off. In addition, 2018 for all programmes, including the Maritime and Fisheries Programme, the results achieved and the objectives to be set, met and respectively, if the criteria are not met, the funds are lost. This is not only a case and a case, it is also for the Rural Development Programme. The question is: why now? A whole year could have changed, could have been done in a way that would create prerequisites for the measure to be opened at the beginning of the year. You do not answer my question: why do you take functions from the Executive Agency for Fisheries and Aquaculture, and why do you think that in the Ministry the capacities are comprehensive so that they can resolve these issues?! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u162	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Is there another line? No. Mr. Apostolov, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u163	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mrs. Bachvarova, these questions you asked, I don't think you should ask them here in the hall. I agree with you that the Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency established as such should manage the resources under this Programme. However, the fact that the Ministry has decided to establish a directorate subordinate to the Minister is perhaps that over the years, the Executive Fisheries and Aquaculture Agency, because of the lack of good staff, has failed to conduct its policy in this area and many of the funds from the previous programming period have not been used and there has been a loss of funds. Apart from that, in the Fisheries and Aquaculture Executive Agency, I can tell you from a personal, modest attempt, the procedures drawn up by experts at the Agency in some cases seemed absolutely ridiculous and led a problem after a problem for ordinary beneficiaries. Perhaps, in this context, the Minister has decided to establish a Directorate in the Ministry, where you know very well that specialists from the Fund have been involved in this Directorate, and it may be his right to decide to conduct the policy otherwise, to have control in order to be able to perform the functions of the new Maritime and Fisheries Programme 2014-2020. So why hasn't it been requested so far, my response has been answered. This change has not been requested before because, in my opinion, the Agency's capacity is quite low. I can tell you that it is a shame for a Bulgarian agency. I can show you enough documents, the Director of the Agency at night after 10:00 p.m. to clean the offices, because there is not even enough money for cleaning, and let alone for expert potential.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u164	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending the Law on Fisheries and Aquaculture, No 854-01-57, tabled by Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs. Voted 106 MPs: 80 against 25, abstention 1. The bill was passed in the first vote. We continue with the next item of the Work Programme: THE SECOND MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND ADMINISTANCE OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE CODEX. Importers are Danail Kirilov and a group of MPs. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov, to present the Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u165	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The Council of Members of the Committee of the Regions adopted a decision to amend and supplement the Administrative Procedure Code, No 754-01-16, submitted by Danail Dimitrov Kirilov and a group of MPs on 1 June 2017, adopted at the first vote on 22 June 2018. ............................................... The Commission discussed and voted on the suspensions of paragraphs 35, 36 and 58 of Part One of the Report and the creation of new paragraphs 28c, 33a, 41a. Under § 35 there is an importer text in respect of art. 137. Proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal from the MPs Hristian Mitev and Emil Dimitrov. The motion has been withdrawn. Proposal by MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs for § 35 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 35, which shall become § 28a: supposed to be in the same condition as in the same way as in the same way as in the same way "Communications" Art. 137. (1) The messages shall be served to a citizen at the address to which he was called for the last time in proceedings before the administrative authority, unless he has indicated another address in the case. Where, in proceedings before the administrative authority, the citizen has provided the information under art. 18a, para. 4, communications shall be served in that order unless otherwise specified in the case. Where the citizen has not participated in the proceedings before the administrative authority or has not indicated the information under art. 18a, para. 4, messages shall be served at his current address and, in the absence of such address, at his permanent address. (2) Communications to the administrative authorities, the judicial authorities, the persons performing public functions and the bodies providing public services, organisations and lawyers shall be served at the e-mail address indicated in the proceedings to the administrative authority, unless otherwise specified in the case. If they have not participated in the proceedings before the administrative authority, they shall necessarily indicate an e-mail address under the Law on Electronic Governance or an e-mail address pursuant to art. 360e, para. 1, t. 7 of the Law on the Judiciary, to which electronic statements can be sent by the judicial authorities. (3) Where parties to proceedings are represented by a general agent or representative, the communication shall be made through it. (4) Outside the cases under para. 3 messages shall be served in accordance with Art. 1. 18a, para. 7... 9........................................................... (5) Where communication cannot be made because the party or person to be called has an unknown address, the communication shall be placed on the notice board or published on the court's website for a period of not less than 7 days. When the country is called by sticking the message to the order of art. 18a, para. 9 as well as in the sentence first, after having established the regularity of the communication so made, the court ordered the communication to be applied to the case and appointed a special representative of the applicant's expenses. The remuneration of the special representative shall be determined by the court according to the factual and legal complexity of the case, and the amount of the remuneration may also be below the minimum for the type of work concerned under art. 36, para. 2 of the Law on Law, but no less than one second of it. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u166	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I will first put to the vote the proposal of MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 95 MPs: 18, Against 34, abstention 43. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 35, which shall become § 28a. Vote 91 MPs: 77 against 1, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u167	§ 36 contains the text of an importer. A proposal from the MP Danail Kirilov, which is withdrawn. Proposal by the MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs § 36 to be dismissed. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal by the National Representative Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 36, which shall become § 28b: supposed to be at the end of the restructuring period (i.e. at the end of the restructuring signing of subpoenas, court documents and documents in the case Art. 138. (1) The subpoenas shall be served according to the order of art. 137. (2) No subsequent subpoenas shall be sent to the parties summoned on a regular basis unless the case has been postponed in closed session or its further course has been blocked. (3) To the extent that it is not otherwise provided for in this Code, the judicial acts or documents in the case shall be communicated to the parties by sending copies according to art. 137. ...............................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-07-04.u168	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I will put to the vote the proposal by MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 16 against 37, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 36, which shall become § 28b. Vote 85 MPs: 76 against 4, abstention 5. The offer is accepted. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, this concludes the work for today. The next regular plenary session shall be on 5 July 2018 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
