ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u1	[[PHONE RINGING]] We've got a meeting to open. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are on the eve of a remarkable date from Bulgarian history. Tomorrow is 139 years from the Constitutional Assembly. Let us recall the case of the founders, the builders of modern Bulgaria. The Founding Assembly is an example of how representatives of the Bulgarian people, united by a common ideal, can work to achieve the common good, to work for the national interest and the common thought that Bulgaria should be home to all of us. On the occasion of the February 10th anniversary, the National Assembly will open its doors to visitors to parliament. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly programme for the work of the National Assembly as follows additional item: Second vote of the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Public Procurement Act. Importers: Daniela Daritkova and Danail Kirilov on 19 January 2018, adopted on the first vote on 31 January 2018. Upon acceptance of the proposal, the point will be examined after the start and still has not ended the second vote of the Bill amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. Please vote on the proposed proposal. They voted 163 MPs: 109, against 11, abstention 43. The offer is accepted. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR THE CONVERSATION OF THE LAW ON THE BANK'S NON-CONSTANCE. Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Name of the department of transit and final provisions. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 5, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u3	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the division supported by the Commission and the rejection of § 5 which the Commission considers to be reflected in its systematic place and proposes to be rejected. They voted 143 MPs: 102, against 13, abstention 28. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u4	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Danail Kirilov in the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. (1) The temporary and permanent insolvency proceedings of the Corporate Commercial Bank (SSC) held by the Quaestors, the temporary and permanent Syndicate of the Bank (Corporate Commercial Bank) in bankruptcy, in the period from its placing under special supervision until the date of the opening of the cash-in procedure the assets of the Bank, the removals of the debtors or third parties in favour of the bank are null and void. The collateral established shall be considered to be valid and shall remain in their turn. (2) Paragraph 1 shall not apply where the claim of the bank is fully repaid by means of a cash payment. (3) For the time since the placing of a Commercial Commercial Bank (Corporate Commercial Bank) in bankruptcy under special supervision until the end of 6 months after the entry into force of this law, in respect of all debtors or third parties in favour of the bank, the terms of their action shall not be extended by the relevant laws. A corporate commercial bank (SSC) may resume until 6 months after the entry into force of this law, any collateral for a new period of time. (4) The guarantees shall be contrary to any third party, regardless of the manner in which it has acquired the property.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u5	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u6	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Each legal order of its action shall be determined in time, space and in relation to persons. In time, of course, it should be for future time, in the space in the case of the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria, and in relation to the persons, as states art. 1a of the Law on Regulatory Acts, the regulation contains general rules of conduct which apply to an individually defined range of entities. I'm focusing on an undefined circle of entities. In this case, we specify only CTB. I think the law is common to bank bankruptcy, not to CCB's bank bankruptcy. Another, which is also unacceptable, is the inclusion of the name of the bank in the Law. True, the flight of thought is unlimited, but in this case the importer's thought has landed in the People's Republic of China, as the only MPs who allowed themselves to include President Si Jinpin's name in their constitution are precisely Chinese MPs. Another thing I would also like to address is the announcement of minor legal actions that have been carried out in the past, which have been brought back to life and allow the renewal of collateral repaid, affecting the rights that third parties have acquired on the subject of transactions that have, however, been genuine at the time of their execution and the collateral. Therefore, these rules also violate another component of the rule of law. The requirement that legally acquired rights should be protected and not be affected by retroactive measures. Unfortunately, retroactivity is a sign of extraordinary legislation, which is not necessary at the moment. Why? Because bankruptcy was declared three and a half years ago, and after three and a half years, we think of filling in the bankruptcy table. The published reports of the Syndicate clearly conclude that there are currently no significant results of their activities on the return to the insolvency table of assets acquired directly or indirectly with money from the bank. We cannot disagree with the finding that this damages both the interest of creditors and the public interest. Here is put, first of all, the question: to what extent are these low, desperate results due to bad laws, and to what extent is the competence and unwillingness of the Quaestors and the Syndicates to do their job? The importer ignores completely one circumstance found by the court that after 20 June 2014 and this is the moment of placing CCB under special supervision, the entire responsibility for the preservation of the property and assets of the bank is the BNB in the face of the Quaestors and the Deposit Guarantee Fund in the banks after the appointment of syndics from them. The motives offered to us by the importers are in order to once again transfer the problems from the sick to the healthy head. The other, which also disturbs me in the present case, that according to the reports of the Syndicates, they have filed cases for taking over BGN 10 billion, while the bank's assets are estimated at BGN 5 billion. It is initially clear that all the liabilities of the bank will not be collected. I am very interested in how the Syndicates will be able to double the bank's assets, given that when it was placed under special supervision it was 5 billion. For this reason, we have no reason to support the changes made, as they contradict the constitutional order established and certain laws of our legislation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u7	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Hamid.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u8	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Mr. Baychev! I don't know where you come up with this crap about Chinese folk thought in this law, about Xi Jinping, and I don't know what kind of communist leaders you are. I do not know what personal interests you are protecting so fiercely from yesterday and today the same ones expressed by the man who robbed the money of the Bulgarian people by a thief who is hiding in Belgrade. Did this man come to you?! Are you his lawyer?! Get out there and tell me your personal interest. You're so fiercely repeating these of his. The law really is in the public interest, believe me! Read it at least.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u9	Thank you, Mr. Hamid. Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, dear colleague Baichev! And I'll start with the question: who wrote you what you read from the stands?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u11	Tsvetan Vassilev is clear. He repeats the same words.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u12	I feel obliged to answer some of the questions. As far as you are quoting the Law on Legislative Acts, I will quote to your attention and the Decree on the implementation of the Law on Legislative Acts............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Art. 34: Transitional provisions shall continue to apply rules repealed by the new regulatory act or shall govern their application to pending relationships or to legal facts which have been initiated but have not been completed in the course of the repealed act. Art. 35, para. 1. The final provisions shall include the rules giving retroactive effect to the act, delaying its action or limiting it to part of the territory of the country. With regard to the operation of the entities. I would say that entities that draw rights or have affected rights with regard to the insolvency of CCB are an unlimited number of persons, but a determining circle of persons. Another question is how long this determination would take. Regarding the citation of a specific bank in a regulatory act, you were also recently the originator, although other colleagues were also the originators, to settle the issues of citizens with multi-annual residential savings, the so-called interest-rates at DSK Bank. So I do not see any explicit or extraordinary deviation in this case, all the more so that it is in the Final Provisions and even more so that it is the first, and the joyful, only bank bankruptcy in the course of this law. Okay, I'm still saying it's not seven banks, it's one bank. Then you'd have seven names.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u13	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Baichev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u14	My fellow Member, I am pleased to declare that I have no conflict of interest. Not only have I never met, but I have never spoken to and I do not know Mr. Tsvetan Vassilev. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] The considerations why I make these statements are that your proposal contradicts the legality and constitutionality of the Republic of Bulgaria. This one, first. Secondly, unlike you, I am a Member of Parliament for the first time. You have had the opportunity to monitor repeatedly the work of the various government bodies that awarded Tsvetan Vassilev as banker of the year [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] who awarded CTB for the Bank of the Year. If you really have half of the competence you declare, you could cause questions, checks and so on, some process to check what is happening in this Please do not transfer your addictions to a healthy head again! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u15	Thank you, Mr. Baichev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Naydenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u16	Mr President, honourable Members, our political party will not support proposals § 6 in this bill because of a single word that we believe should be removed. I respect the wording of the proposed paragraph: The CCB institutions may renew until the six-month period after the entry into force of the Law any guarantee under unserved loans for a new term. Our proposal is that the word "may" should be removed and the syndics of the CCB should renew until the end of the six-month period. The aim of the Law is to stop the secondary plundering of KTB's assets, so that the provision is clear and unambiguous that actions are taken against all bad debtors and not selective at the discretion of the Syndicates. It is this word that can prevent this from being applied. We suggest the word may fall, but it may be mandatory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u17	Thank you, Mr. Naydenov. Any lines to Mr. Naydenov's statement? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I will put to the vote the editorial amendment that the people's representative Simeon Naydenov has just made for dropping the word "may" and then we will continue with the vote on the wording of § 6. I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by the National Representative Simeon Naydenov. They voted 130 MPs: 13, against 18, abstention 99. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the version of § 6, which shall become § 5, proposed by the Commission. They voted 124 MPs: 96, against 15, abstentioned 13. The offer is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the text, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u18	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. According to § 7 there is a proposal from the MPs Danail Kirilov and Hamid Hamid, made in accordance with art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which the Commission supports in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 6: ........................................................... (1) Any transfer or series of transfers of shares and/or shares by commercial companies carried out by the debtor of the bank after the date of placing of the Corporate Commercial Bank..... under special supervision......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (2) The insolvency practitioner, the temporary trade union or the fund may, within 5 years from the opening of the insolvency proceedings, file claims before the insolvency court for the declaration of invalidity of a transfer or of a series of transfers of shares and/or shares under para. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u19	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? There are no speakers. I shall put to the vote the wording for § 7, which shall become § 6 of the Commission Report. They voted 122 MPs: 96 against 17, abstention 9. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer for § 8, which shall become § 7: .................................................... This law shall also apply to insolvency proceedings opened until the date of its entry into force.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u21	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text on § 8, which becomes § 7. Vote 119 MPs: 96 against 16, abstention 7. The offer is accepted. Proceed, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u22	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. An offer has been made by the MP Danail Kirilov under the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for the establishment of a new § 8, which is supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to create a new § 8: ................................................................................... Article 59, para. 5, 6 and 7 shall apply from 20 June 2014
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u23	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the proposal proposed by the Commission for a new § 8 with the text proposed by the rapporteur. Vote 117 MPs: 95 against 15, abstentioned 7. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u24	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The Commission proposes to establish § 9: ..................................................... In the Law on Credit Institutions (prom., SG No. ...) in art. Paragraph 111 is created. 3: For the purposes of this Article, the following definitions shall apply:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u25	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 9 with the text presented by the rapporteur. They voted 121 MPs: 101, against 15, abstention 5. The proposal is accepted and is thus adopted at second reading the Law amending and supplementing the Bankruptcy Act. We continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE WITH THE LAW ON PUBLIC PROCUREMENT, No 854-01-2. The bill was tabled by the MPs Daniela Daritkova and Danail Kirilov on 19 January 2018, adopted on the first vote on 31 January 2018. Who will present the text for the second vote? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u26	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! In addition to the Law on Public Procurement, No 854-01-2 was submitted by Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 19 January 2018, adopted at the first vote on 31 January 2018. The Act for Supplement to the Public Procurement Act (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u27	Thank you. Statements? I won't. I put to the vote the text of the importer on the name of the Law, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 96, none, abstention 11. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u28	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs: In § 1, art. 13, para. 1, t. 20 words are replaced by the health care services. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u29	Thank you. Statements? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: 23, against 12, abstention 72. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 1, which shall be supported by the Commission. They voted 106 MPs: 96, none, abstention 10. The offer is accepted. Please continue with the presentation of the text, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u30	'Concluding provision'. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs: The name of the closing provision is amended as follows: "Concluding provisions." The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the division of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u31	Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs on the name of the division which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 104 MPs: 17 against 20, abstention 67. It's not accepted. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the division supported by the Commission. They voted 107 MPs: for 94, against 6, abstention 7. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u32	Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs: A new § 2 shall be created with the following content: ..................................................... In the Law on Health (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 82, para. 1, is created t. 8a: Eight o'clock. payment of medicinal products included in the list under art. 266a, para. 2 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine, in order determined by the Ordinance under art. 9, para. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs: " § 3 is created with the following content: .................................................. In the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine (prom., SG No. ...) in art. 266a, para. 5, after the words "in para. 1s and 1s are added to the purchase by the Ministry of Health and is purchased by the Ministry of Health. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u33	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u34	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I regret that I was absent in the first minutes of the discussion of the draft amendment to the Law, as it escaped my attention that it was placed at the last moment as a item on the agenda. I would like to draw attention to the honourable Members, as well as to the counter-importers, that in this case it is about two philosophies in both types of proposals. These two philosophies set a very serious precedent, regardless of the well-meaning of the original importer, in the possibility of once again reaching a precedent in price variability of various medicinal products, and some of them, particularly financial, in various medical establishments. I would like to remind the entire House that this mistake was made nine years ago. Under enormous pressure, the procedure of the National Health Insurance Fund was decentralised and all medical institutions were given the opportunity to tender for medicinal products. It took nine years to make quite big public scandals to come up with the idea that these auctions would be electronically centralised again. We're talking about the same thing here. As a man who has worked a very long time with the table under art. 266 and knowing the characteristics of medicines that can enter, enter or leave it, I am obliged to share with you and ask you for a very careful attitude towards this draft change in the Law, which will allow for variability in quotes, which can in a very serious way damage the interests of the state. The words that were said here at the first reading that everything is transparent, that it is uploaded to the Ministry's website do not correspond to the truth. Only the list, which can be changed, is correct, in the calendar year, but none of the transactions that are concluded by the medical institutions is the subject of interest on the website of the Ministry of Health. Some of these drugs, I allow myself to repeat, are extremely financiers, that is to say, creating once again a variability that is by no means in the interest of the state. We are talking about a limited volume of medicinal products, which can, however, be in the hands of a deal between a medical establishment and, I allow myself to quote the person who is responsible for one or two distributors, which we have commented that they can conclude a silent agreement, not to call it by another word, and the inability to control this to sharply raise prices, which we have already seen as professionals many times in recent years. I quoted you last time, not to bother the honourable House now with the fact that some medicines on this particular list have raised their prices 40 times because of the fact that there is a monopoly distributor, or are only two distributors on the market. very please all, taking into account the well-meaning of the original importers, carefully consider this in whose hands will be given the opportunity to purchase. Moreover, we have spoken with representatives of the Ministry of Health. They had an extremely rational idea at the Directorate for Medicines to create an opportunity, and with a legal initiative, under pressure from a certain distributor or a small group of distributors operating with these unique funds for us, because they are allowed on the European Union field, but they are not registered in Bulgaria, as other countries do, to be able to be purchased outside the territory of the country under a certain legal procedure, as other countries on the Balkan Peninsula do, by the way. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u35	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. - What's the line? I won't. Other speeches. I won't. We are going to vote on the proposals of MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs to create § 2, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 117 MPs: 37 against 19, abstention 61. The offer is not accepted. The second proposal for the creation of § 3 of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. [[(Replicates from BSP for Bulgaria]] We're already in the polls after we graduate. They voted 109 MPs: 12, against 28, abstention 69. The offer is not accepted. There was a procedure requested by Mr. Popov, but I see he has no interest in the procedure, so we continue with the presentation of the text. Please, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u36	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Proposal from the National Representative Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs: Paragraph 4 shall be inserted: ............................................ Within two months of the entry into force of this Act, the Minister of Health shall introduce the Ordinance under art. 9, para. 1 of the Law on Medicinal Products in Human Medicine in accordance with the requirements of this law. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u37	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? Here you are, Professor Mikhailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u38	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I ask you, at the beginning of my speech, to pay attention to the left-hand side of the Chamber if you wish to proceed or re-vote, and also to the presentation of the vote by group. I am referring to this, addressing all Members of the National Assembly, because if you had submitted the vote in groups, you would see that only the pressure required the change in one direction or another, as there were colleagues from GERB who very well understood our arguments and voted for the proposal. I don't believe in a lack of intelligence in colleagues from GERB to confuse someone in such a serious and...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u39	Where are your people?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u40	Please get to the point, Professor Mikhailov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u41	We're not having a discussion. I would like to point out to my fellow Members that this is a matter of principle, which is also perceived as a policy by the ruling coalition at the moment. A policy of careful control of the huge cost of medicine funds implemented in the Republic of Bulgaria. And with this act, which we are currently adopting as a legislative change, we deviate from our national philosophy to bring under control excessive and variable in various medical institutions and different parts of the country costs which are by no means of interest to the state. Therefore, I ask you also on this, I think that the last, pre-last proposal, to accept our arguments and to tilt the scale in favour of optimizing this cost that matters. Each lev matters, and here are not few funds, for the national interests of the state. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u42	Thank you, too. - What's the line? Any other speeches? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u43	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! It is strange that I, of all people, would like to take the floor on this bill, as perhaps the only non-medic in the discussion and non-medic. However, I would like to say how the debates in the Committee on Legal Affairs took place, which on this bill was a leading Commission. For me, the opinion of the Ministry of Health was key and important, which was presented by the three Directorates of Public Procurement and Legal Directorate and the Directorate of Medical Policy. I'm rewriting the title. I disagree with what has been said so far that the Ministry of Health wants in some way to participate in this procedure. All the representatives definitely said they didn't want to. They clarified much of the details regarding the hypotheses in view of the different payers as a result of such a medicinal product. And to tell you the truth, I don't really think it's about protecting the national interest, but it's about protecting the patient's interest. And the patient's interest, besides the nominal cost of the drug, is to get it quickly. We have played several options on Professor Mihailov's proposals. In any case, we have all agreed that this means a minimum of one week of additional administrative procedure. I mean, a week of wasted time. What do I think is the key to not being a doctor? I claim as a lawyer, the key is that we have multiple control Adhok. We have the control of doctors at the hospital itself who need to express a one-way will exactly for a particular patient, for a particular medicine. This medicine should be included in the list under art. 266a, which comes with the sanction of the national consultant on the relevant matter. In order to carry out the import and order itself, the Agency for Import Medicines shall require authorisation. You see how many more administrative procedures. And the most brutal, I would call it an economic regulator, is the interest of the medical establishment. The risk of excessiveness, the risk of non-covering expenditure will weigh in the budget of the medical establishment, i.e. the medical establishment is also an effective controller that this medicine is necessary and that it will not be imported, put forward, at the high price. Yes, the price may be accidental, because we do not have a market on our market for this drug. But it wouldn't be hyperbolic, or 40 times the price, and here I'm asking: where? Because we don't have a price on this market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u44	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A line? Here's a line for you, Professor Mihailov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u45	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, with all due respect to you, I warmly and most well-meaningly would advise when a person is really not a narrow specialist, as I do not allow myself to speak on legal matters, not to be concerned, as those, as you call them, the assumptions which you have pointed out, even by quoting my name as a counter-importer, I strongly tell you, as the director of a medical establishment that he has operated, I repeat it for the third time in front of the Chamber, operational with this list for years, do not respond to the truth. This citation of a week of life-saving... The procedure is really long and aggravated. But it does not concern in this real sense a particular patient. These patients are usually chronically ill, they are known to the medical facility that deals with such a strategic treatment, it really takes time, but all this goes in a way that patients will not be harmed if the procedure is centralized and if these funds are purchased by the Ministry of Health. Moreover, I would like to draw your attention to you, as I appeal to you, I hope to your attention that in the way in which you construct your hypothesis, bear in mind that these funds are directly heavy on the medical establishment. And sometimes they create a rather serious financial capacity, which is of the order of several hundred thousand leva a year. You see in the public domain how just 24 hours ago one of the major medical institutions presented as a serious question of 500 thousand. lv. the obligation of one of the structures of this medical establishment. So a few hundred thousand leva for a medical establishment to be loaded to pay them personally... Let's not go into this hypothesis - conceited or uninflated is the price, whether it can be checked. It can be checked because in the Republic of Turkey prices are many times lower than in Bulgaria, unfortunately, also in the Hellenic Republic. And when patients can't get the treatment, they buy them from there at multiple prices and examples I can give you as many as you want. So by not knowing the details and being like you benevolent, a person risks fooling his colleagues, they trust his authority as a lawyer and get one wrong decision. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u46	Thank you, Professor Mikhailov. Another line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u47	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Kirilov! I'm making a line for you because I was involved in the legal committee discussion and listening to you as if it were about another discussion. Indeed, what was true is that there were four representatives of the Ministry of Health who said in their first words that they were against our proposal. But then the interpretation didn't respond to the things that happened at the Legal Commission. Once again, by sticking to the arrangement made by the professor to be careful, taking into account matter that is beyond our competence, I would like to draw attention to you. For me, the most important thing that is happening in this bill is: who should make the decision? And our proposal is that this be done by an institution, namely the Ministry, and not by any hospital hospital, as is your proposal. And I wonder at your speech because you have joined my request that the Ministry of Health provide data on what volume of funds, Mr. Kirilov, is an annual basis for last year and the year before. We were both promised before today's vote to see the amounts. And that's why we're guessing right now and talking about hypotheses because your proposal is not based on amounts. The Ministry of Health, representatives of the several departments of the Ministry of Health, made a specific commitment to you and to me to present amounts of money. You have submitted the bill again today, now at the second vote. I don't know if you have any clarity, but by the promise that has been made to me, for clarity on an annual basis, what amounts have been spent, I don't. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done. The list is dynamic and we do not know in the future what medicines will enter. But voters must have clarity for the previous at least a year, and for the previous one, what amounts have been spent by the state and by the medical institutions under this type of medicine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u48	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Another line? I won't. Mr. Kirilov, will you use the right to the back? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, colleagues who replicated my speech! I wish I didn't have to take the back, because we're actually going into a technological debate, which wasn't the specific purpose. I will not agree with both colleagues who have replicated me that I have the will to deceive or conceal truth in connection with this debate. I therefore point out that the fact that I have not checked whether the information from the Ministry of Health has been received is due to the fact that the item has been imported extra on today's agenda. We normally planned that it would enter the weekly program for next week and for this reason neither I nor my colleague Sava Petrov have called the colleagues at the Ministry of Health. I don't suspect them, however, that they have a special will to hide the total amount. Rather, the problem is that it is about several different groups of medicines, which obviously do not have a consolidated reference to this. I'm not questioning your management experience in a particular cancer hospital. Unfortunately, I have also encountered this and, of course, these clashes are not pleasant. But I want to say this. Colleague Milkov tried to be precise, but he actually distorted the meaning of the debate, so I'm going to repeat parts of it that we led with the Ministry of Health. What are the three hypotheses of the payers, the real finalists in this case? The first hypothesis is the Children's Treatment Fund. The second case is the final cost to be borne by the National Health Insurance Fund. The third hypothesis which may be separate but may be along with one of hypothesis No 1 or hypothesis No 2.................................................................................................................... Where, in these three cases, should I call it the medicine's benefit, is the medical facility? Yes, there is a risk, and there is a real risk in some way with the distorted management will of the medical establishment to hinder access. But I don't suspect any doctor or health manager in such a prior desire. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u50	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Any other speeches? There are no other speeches. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs to create a new § 4, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 111 MPs: 31, against 23, abstention 57. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Saveklieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u51	Dear Mr. Chairman, on the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose an extension of the deadline for amendment and addition of the bill adopted yesterday to the first vote amending and supplementing the Law on Tourism, No 702-01-52, by three weeks, i.e. the maximum term.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u52	Thank you. I put to the vote the proposed procedural proposal for an extension to the maximum period for proposals between the first and second reading of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Tourism Act. Voted 103 MPs: 97, none, abstention 6. The offer is accepted. Please, Mr. Kirilov, let's continue with the presentation of the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, § 2. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Mihaylov and a group of Members of the National Assembly of the previous § 2 becomes § 5. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u54	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of MP Georgi Mihailov and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 109 MPs: 23, against 33, abstention 53. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for § 2, which is supported by the Commission. They voted 105 MPs: 88, against 1, abstention 16. The motion is accepted. That's where we ended up. Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with Parliamentary control at 11.00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u55	We begin, honourable Members, with PARLIAMENT CONTROL. For the period 2 February 2018, there was a request from the National Representative Dora Yankova to Nikolay Nankov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, concerning the development of integrated support programmes for areas with adverse socio-economic, demographic and geographical characteristics. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 16 February 2018. Written answers from: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov on a question from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov; - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the MP Petar Petrov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the National Representative Nighyar Jafer; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on eight questions from the National Representative Jayhan Ibryamov; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Economic and Demographic Policy Valeri Simeonov on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on three questions from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Nikolay Tsonkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Nikolai Ivanov, Ivan Genov, Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Energy Temenuzhka Petkova on a question from the National Representative Vasil Tsvetkov; - Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov on a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Teodora Halacheva; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Lyubomir Bonev. We begin with the oral answers to questions and questions, with the answer of Emil Karanikov, Minister of Economy, who will answer a question from the MPs Dimitar Danchev and Dragomir Stoinev regarding the administration of the National Innovation Fund. Here you are, dear Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u56	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises is responsible for implementing the state policy to improve the innovation activity of enterprises and the development of products, processes and services from research and development. The Agency shall implement the administration of the famous and entertaining TV programmes National Innovation Fund, which should promote research and development, enhance the innovative potential and technological level of enterprises. The eighth competition session of the Fund with a budget of 5 million opened in September 2016. BGN, on which 192 project proposals were received by the end date for the application. The decision on the results of the evaluation of the last competition session was taken only in December 2017, i.e. with a huge delay of nearly one year. In the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, signals of irregularities concerning the administration of the National Innovation Fund were received in the National Assembly by the Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. In this regard, we would like you to answer the following questions: what are the reasons for the huge delay in the evaluation processes? Why has the signing of contracts with external valuers been delayed so long and the contracts with these valuers have not been signed? Has Mrs Marieta Zaharieva put pressure on the Executive Director of the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises to change the opinion of the valuers? From the minutes of the meetings of the Board of the National Innovation Fund, which sent us citizens, as well as from the media appearances of Ms Marieta Zaharieva, we have found that she has repeatedly proposed that the evaluation procedure be terminated for vices. What were the grounds? Were there any official signals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Come in for an answer, Minister Karanikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u58	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, dear Mr. Danchev, dear Mr. Stoinev! First of all, I'd like to thank you for the question. The National Innovation Fund was established by Decision No 723 of the Council of Ministers of 8 September 2004. In order to settle the organization, principles, governance mechanisms and activities of the NIF have been adopted Rules for the Management of the Funds of the NIF 2016. Under the rules, the Fund has its own body to manage and administer the funds, as well as the Fund's control unit. In the innovative strategy for intelligent specialization of the Republic of Bulgaria 2014 It is explicitly provided that the activities of the Fund are administered by the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. In essence, over 190 project proposals under the scheme have been submitted for the Eighth Competition Session. Supporting the research and development activities of enterprises and research and knowledge distribution organisations and applying period from 15 September to 30 September 2016. Over 190 project proposals have been evaluated for administrative compliance and eligibility, as well as technical and economic evaluation of project proposals and financial assessment of the budget by independent experts. 78 meetings were held between March and June 2017 for consensus and uniformisation of the recommendations of independent experts, as well as 82 meetings with candidates for negotiations on the budget of the draft proposals for June 2017. These meetings are standard procedures for the management of the NIF funds. A formal adjustment of the budget by the financier coordinators has been made on the basis of the signed minutes of the negotiation meeting with the candidates. It is clear from the fact that the activity took place between October 2016 and July 2017, and the process has not stopped. In accordance with the rules, a competition procedure for the selection of auditor and members of the Control Unit of the Fund has been launched. In view of the lack of candidates or the lack of expertise of the candidates, three procedures were required in the period December 2016. "November 2017" A control unit has been formed in the third procedure and the composition of the control unit has been established at a meeting of the Governing Council on 7 November 2017. It is recommended that a check be carried out by 14 November 2017, i.e. seven days, on the lawful application of the rules for the evaluation of the draft proposals for the eighth competition session of the NIF. This is the actual cause of the delay. After receiving signals from the independent experts, the Ministry of the Economy has issued checks by the Ministry of Economy to delay the payment of their remuneration for their work and work already carried out, [[The President gives a sign that the time has expired.]] I am finished, from the Inspectorate and from the Internal Audit Office at the Ministry of Economy. As a result of the verification, no infringements were found to affect the work of the Fund and a delay in the evaluation of the project proposals. In practice, it has been established that the NIF Fund Management Rules, which carried out the Eighth Session of the Fund, have texts that are vague and incomplete, which has hampered the implementation of the session. We are currently reviewing the rules, gathering opinions from all stakeholders, and I will not allow the ninth session of the Fund to be launched before changes in the rules of management of the funds are made. In fact, in the Committee on Economics, in which you are members, we will provide this information in advance so that you can be aware. The specific information regarding the late payment of the remuneration of the independent experts is that contracts with a clause have been signed, according to which fees will be paid only after the ranking of the project proposals. This is also the reason why they are not paid the remuneration in due time. As a result, procedures have been launched by the Executive Agency to conclude additional agreements that remuneration will be paid immediately after acceptance of the work and this has already been carried out. Current information, very briefly: at the beginning of November 2017, at its meeting, the Management Board approved and decided on the ranking of the project proposals and, accordingly, the Executive Director of the Executive Agency took action to sign these contracts. At the end of 2017, one year later, as you mentioned, 17 contracts with the qualifying participations were signed. With regard to the request, has the Executive Director of the Agency put pressure on you, I assure you that such signals have not been identified in both the information and the Inspectorate's internal audit. Please, if you have any, provide them. With regard to whether Mrs Zaharieva has made a request to terminate the Eighth Session, I confirm that this is the case, but she has not yet submitted any information on the basis of which her requests are based. The contracts of the 8th session have already been signed and I assure you that the issue is not over for the Ministry of Economy and there will be a development very soon, of which you will be informed in due course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u59	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, you have the opportunity to reply. Mr. Danchev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u60	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Practically the entire period from the opening of the procedure of the eighth session of the NIF until its completion was marked by scandals and doubts about unprecedented manipulations. From an official announcement on the website of the Executive Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises from June 2017, we understand that the business has issued signals of violations that undermine the procedure for approving projects in the eighth session of the NIF. I ask myself: how is it possible for business representatives to submit signals according to a procedure in which at that time there was nothing official as a result? From the same communication, we learn that from February 2017 until the day of publication of the Communication, the National Innovation Fund had no legitimate management board and there was no possibility to make decisions in the Fund. It would be interesting to learn whether there was a legitimate, legal reason why the Governing Council of the Fund is defined as illegitimate in that period or is this again about honest manipulation? Even for the uninformed observer, it is obvious that the administration of the National Innovation Fund during the last session has been compromised and there is an impression of serious manipulation of the valuation process. In itself, the delay in the evaluation of the project by more than a year makes sense of the idea of innovation of the project proposals. You understand that the time we live in suggests that something that represents innovation today may be obsolete tomorrow. Even if we do not take into account the issue of the delay in the evaluation process, the question remains that the valuers of the project proposals worked without a contract. For me, this is a serious administrative violation and poses a serious risk to the security of the information these people have been working with. The question is also important: why has the payment of the valuers been made after they have completed their work? That fact leaves doubt on the possibility that the valuers were pressured to change one or another of their valuations in order to ultimately obtain their expected remuneration. It will soon be three years since the Agency is managed by Mrs Marieta Zaharieva as CEO. Within a very short period of time, trust in the Agency has been virtually destroyed. After a series of blunders that even led to the involvement of the Agency in the broadcast, its state began to regret in all partners from employers and industry organizations. Under the leadership of Mrs. Zaharieva, the Agency strongly undermines the role of the state as a support for small and medium-sized businesses and for the development of the modern economy. Information about corrupted public contracts and artificial civil contracts was also found in the report of the official Prime Minister Ognian Gerdjikov. Mr. Minister, the issues and problems presented are undoubtedly a serious blow to the normal work of the Executive Agency for the Promotion of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. I expect that you will take serious and adequate measures and will not tolerate the behaviour of self-forgotten administrators. I am convinced that the management of state funds of several million per year for the development of innovation in our economy should not remain in the hands of people who corrupt the process of promoting the development of small and medium-sized businesses in the country. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u61	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I absolutely support your position. What happened is unacceptable. Regarding whether the Governing Council was legitimate, it was legitimate, that is clear to everyone. Unfortunately, both in the verification and in the conversations that were held with the valuers, there are currently no signals that they have been pressured. I say once again: if you have any, it is good to provide them. I assure you that action will be taken very soon. We had to finish the eighth session. It would have been very negative for all innovative enterprises and innovations in Bulgaria if we had not finished it. We had to, we had to finish the eighth session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u63	Thank you, Mr. Karanikolov. Let us thank him for his participation in today's parliamentary control. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u64	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of the National Assembly, "Rachevgate" or another gate under the wing of GERB! Today, in many Bulgarian municipalities there is a self-deprecating authority that distributes public contracts to its people, who blackmails and threatens. There's a gate in almost every city today. The word "governance" is now covered by "Corruption" with replacement of procedures and benefits. It started with the Sujukgate, the Kumgate, from which it came today to the Rachevgate. Last week, the Special Prosecutor's Office launched an investigation into 13 million worth of abuse. lv. to the mayor of Septemvri municipality, Marin Rachev. A crime of service, idleness, and unfavorable deals. According to the administrative chief, Prosecutor Geshev, the mayor can also be charged with participating in an organized crime group. At one address were found all accounting documents, stamps, signatures of family and close companies that won public procurement of the municipality for millions. In the nightstand of the mayor of September are opened reports by the SANS concerning local elections from 2015. They contain information about the activities of the SANS in the........................................................................................... After Zlatanov's notebook was found again a notebook in the mayor of GERB, in which there are also notes, estimates of companies related to the mayor of September municipality, through which the municipality was probably drained. The companies, the amounts of public procurement, profits and any other cuts are described. The question remains: what else was found on the notorious nightstand of the investigating mayor? The saga with Rachev started a long time ago, right in the middle of last year. Even then, the MPs from BSP's parliamentary group gave a timely press conference, but things happened slowly. Why, esteemed rulers? Even then, ADFI found that numerous violations of the Public Procurement Act were committed during the public procurement procedure by the municipality of Septemvri. Public procurements are won by companies for which there are reasonable assumptions about close links between the owners of the companies and Mayor Marin Rachev. During the implementation of the construction and installation activities, documents for control were drawn up, but it was not actually exercised. It is clear from the explanations taken that the companies that perform public procurement do not have the necessary equipment and workforce to carry out the activities. They cannot explain exactly what activities they have carried out. The owners of the companies have concluded additional rental contracts, which cost the price of the projects. The damage to the municipality of Septemvri from the above information amounted to about 13 million. lv. Subsequently, the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office ruled that there are circles around the mayor of the municipality of Septemvri, who protect private and corporate interests at the expense of the budget of the municipality and the state budget. The faces Gergana Stoyanova, Svetla Dimitrova and Vladimira Boyadzhiyska are owners or are in the management of 11 companies that have won public contracts or implemented services under a contract with the municipality of September. According to a decree of the Sofia City Prosecutor's Office in violation of the Public Procurement Act, the mayor of the municipality of Septemvri, Marin Rachev, has entrusted a number of activities to companies with whom he has links, was a partner in the same, managers or owners of companies are his relatives and relatives. In doing so, he violated his duties in order to benefit the companies in question, and in breach of the Public Procurement Act, he entrusted them with activities in free negotiation. Most of these activities are not fully implemented or have not been carried out at all and have nevertheless been paid off, causing damage to the municipality. The harmful consequences have also been expressed in the inability to negotiate more favourable conditions for the municipality of Septemvri, which could be done in the course of legal procedures under the Public Procurement Act. That's how it came to the Special Prosecutor's Office at the end of last week. The question is, how the mayor of the municipality with about 2500 inhabitants has 250 thousand. BGN to bail him out. It is disturbing to have documents that, according to the prosecution, should not be in the mayor's locker, documents concerning the development of the SANS. That is why we want a hearing of the President of the State Agency (National Security Agency), the Prosecutor General or the Minister of Interior on this matter. Is this how elections are won, gentlemen and ladies of GERB, with documents so called the informational products of the National Security Agency, which, according to the law, should be stored in another protected place rather than wallowing in the drawers of the investigating mayor?! In this hall there is a MP from GERB, directly related to the activities of the municipality of Septemvri, namely Daniela Maleshkova, Deputy Mayor of the municipality of Septemvri until April 2017. That is why we ask the resonant question: what is the role, place, participation and responsibility of the deputy of Marin Rachev, Ms Maleshkova, in the transactions after ADFI in a financial inspection report for 2016 states that by order the mayor of Septemvri municipality has replaced Daniela Maleshkova to sign payment orders, income and expense cash orders, budget implementation reports, and we also believe that she will have nothing against giving an answer to these questions. Mayor Marin Ratchev became famous in Europe as well. The case is with the so-called Golden Levels, bought and resold to the municipality by relatives of the mayor of huge profit. This case also entered the black book of government waste in Bulgaria. Dear MPs, corruption is becoming the emblem of the current government. The enrichment of few close to power is at the expense of the low salaries of young scientists, low pensions, closed hospitals, total lack of justice and huge inequalities in Bulgarian society. If you don't start smashing and hitting this management model seriously, then you have no place in this room, honourable rulers! Dear Governments, how many more gays do you need to realize that statehood in Bulgaria has completely degraded?! Thank you. [[Extreme applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u65	Thank you, Mr. Popov. We're continuing with parliamentary control. There is a question from the MP Iskren Veselinov about an unjustified increase in the price of electricity on the free market. Here you go, Mr. Vesselinoff.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u66	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Minister, my question is about the unjustified increase in the price of electricity for the free market. In the last few weeks, the price of electricity sold on the free market has grown at an unjustified rate, currently offering significantly higher values than that of the regulated market. The lack of a specific legal or economic reason for this creates serious concerns in the representatives of the Bulgarian business and trade unions regarding the existence of unfair practices by certain privates trading electricity on the free market. Without support remain the arguments of some traders that the growth in electricity prices is due to a number of external factors, including an appreciation of major energy resources traded on the world markets. This crisis situation leads to uncertainty and calls for companies to move from free to regulated market or to take concrete measures by the competent state authorities, namely the Ministry of Energy and the Commission for Energy and Water Regulation to tackle the problem. In this regard, I ask you the following questions: has an analysis been carried out of the reasons which led to the crisis with the expected increase in the price of electricity on the free market? In this respect, do state and energy companies that offer the main share of electricity on the market contribute? Are the packages of market products offered by state-owned companies to the objective of increasing the predictability and stability of the market? For example, experts argue that the supply of base energy with different volumes over different periods of time, as well as peak energy with weekly and monthly schedules would increase the stability of trade in the free market. Is the Bulgarian Energy Holding planning to carry out the important energy market analyses of the processes? What measures can contribute to reducing the level of regulatoryness of the market and thus reduce the risk premiums of electricity traders, which will ultimately reflect on price reductions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u67	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Before I give the floor to Minister Petkova, I would like to inform you that on the balcony are students from the town of Kardzhali who are guests of parliament. Please welcome them. [[Applause.]] Welcome, Minister Petkova, to answer the question raised by the MP Iskren Veselinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u68	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Veselinov, the main producers and suppliers of electricity of the regulated and free market in Bulgaria are the subsidiaries of the Bulgarian Energy Holding, NPP "Kozloduy" nuclear power plant, TPP "Maritsa East 2" and the National Electricity Company. Following the legal provisions, companies strictly fulfil their commitments for both a regulated and free market. The Bulgarian electricity market corresponds to market trends in the region. Bulgaria is not an isolated island and the suspicion of unjustified price movements should be raised in case the country lacks compliance with the price trends in the region. It should not be forgotten that the integration of the Bulgarian market into the European market is underway and the level of unification will deepen, which will lead to a partial convergence of prices in Bulgaria with those of neighbouring countries. It should be noted that according to Eurostat statistics, electricity prices in Bulgaria are one of the lowest in the European Union. I will give an example: for the past 2017, the weighted average price of electricity on the free market in Bulgaria is 76.90 BGN, i.e. 39 euros, in Hungary the weighted average price for 2017 of electricity is 50 euros, in Romania is 48 euros. In this regard, it should also be borne in mind that electricity prices on the free market, I stress, are formed as the price of any other commodity is formed, namely as a result of demand and supply. As regards the price of electricity for domestic consumers on the regulated market, where non-bit consumers are located, which are connected to the low voltage networks, the price is set by the Commission for energy and water regulation on a clear methodology and rules, and the price is as defined by the regulator for the relevant price period. The possibility of producers of electricity to offer certain products on the market depends on the specifics of production facilities, repair activities and legal commitments. The NPP "Kozloduy" plant, TPP "Maritsa East 2" and NEK are obliged to meet with priority their commitments for the regulated market, commitments to the European Commission in case AT.39767-BEH electricity, and their commitments to the system operator for availability for regulation. Free quantities of companies offer for sale on a free market via the exchange platform of the Bulgarian Independent Energy Exchange, the load profile is consistent with the technical capabilities and production capacity of the generating facilities of the plants. For the last months, the set of traded products by NPP..Kozloduy, TPP. Maritsa East 2 " and NEK on the exchange shows that in addition to standard products with different delivery times, products with the possibility of daily change of the load profile, i.e. modular products, have been implemented. The degree of modulation proposed by manufacturers varies from 5 to 50% depending on the technical capabilities of the manufacturer concerned. Such flexible products are entirely in the interests of buyers. Attention should also be paid to the fact that such products are not available on other exchanges, that is, our exchange offers a much larger palette of platforms that are precisely in the interests of buyers, in the interests of consumers. Electricity traders shall determine the risk premiums according to analyses and estimates. Since in your question you are also concerned with the topic of risk premiums for traders, what I can say is that these premiums are determined according to analyses and assessments carried out by traders themselves and according to the strategies and internal policies of their companies. The Bulgarian Energy Holding, respectively the Ministry of Energy, has no information about the risk premiums of traders and therefore cannot comment to what extent the latter are influenced by the volatility of the market. Regarding your question regarding the degree of volatility in the electricity market, an analysis was made on the standard deviations of the average daily stock market prices day forward in Bulgaria and in Greece, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Croatia, Romania, the Czech Republic, Turkey and Serbia. It is clear from the analysis that the volatility of the stock prices on the Bulgarian market is comparable to the other markets, even lower than the volatility in some countries with much more developed markets and exchanges such as Romania and Hungary. In conclusion, I would like to share that if specific data are available on non-competitive behaviour by the participants in the electricity market, everyone can refer to the competent authority in the State, namely the Commission for Protection of Competition, which deals precisely with this problem. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u69	Thank you, Minister Petkova. Here you are, Mr. Veselinov, you have the opportunity to make a reply to Minister Petkova's reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u70	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Madam Minister, for your answer. In fact, the data on non-market behaviour of traders are in the media and there is hardly any need for a specific referral. They have been exported, including by members of the Council of Ministers, who claim that certain traders have purchased large packages from state-owned enterprises and are selling them now at nearly twice the price. In this regard, if necessary, I could refer to the Commission for Protection of Competition, but I thought that since the source is from the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Energy also has a view and position on things. With regard to the actions that the government has taken over the last week, of course, I could not have known them, as the issue was written two weeks ago. I think it would be useful for all of us if you would share something on the subject of the termination of the contracts with the so-called US power stations "Maritsa East 1" and "Maritsa East 3" because again, we have learned from the media that after the meeting of employers with the Prime Minister, such that there is already a decision by the European Commission for unauthorized State aid to these companies, that is to say, a cause of......... which we have been pursuing very hard since last term, is finally about to receive its outcome. Of course, this is beyond the scope of the question, so only if you wish, then you can share this information.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u71	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Dear Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u72	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Veselinov! First, as regards the referral of the competent authority. As has become known, the Commission for the Protection of Competition has taken very rapid and adequate action relating to sectoral analysis of the electricity market in the free market. In this sector analysis, I am sure that the Commission will examine each of those market participants for which there is evidence that they behave uncompetitively and that there are in some way cartels or similar associations that lead to non-market conditions on the free electricity market. So I fully believe in the Commission for Protection of Competition and we expect this sector analysis with great interest, as it will also be very important for us. Just to say that the Ministry of Energy has virtually no control powers to intervene in the free market and to take any concrete action. What I can say with certainty is that the Ministry of Energy has developed a draft Law amending and supplementing the Energy Act in order to transpose the regulation relating to the Commission's control powers for energy and water regulation in respect of the wholesale electricity market. But notice, this is just about stock trading. No one can enter into the relationship between the relevant consumer, who is, say, a certain private company, and another private company that is a trader of electricity. With regard to these relations between them, if there is any problem, it must indeed be the subject of an investigation by the authorities and the institution responsible, respectively, the Commission for Protection of Competition. As for your question regarding the contracts with the two US power plants, I'm sorry, but I won't be able to say anything different than what came up in the last few days as information. We are actively working with the European Commission. On the part of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Energy, the Bulgarian Energy Holding are constantly in communication with the Commission, but the European Commission's opinion on the existence of unlawful State aid at this time is not available. When there is information, be assured that we will be the first to inform Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u73	Let me thank Mrs Temenuzhka Petkova for her participation in today's parliamentary control. The next question is to Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture. It will be asked by the National Representative Ivo Hristov on the repair of the Concert Hall. Plovdiv. Here you are, Professor Hristov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u74	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, at the end of October last year you announced the news that the Concert Hall in town. Plovdiv will be fully renovated and you have ensured that the procedures will be moved immediately. You also set an optimal deadline for the completion of the renovation, this is 2018 when Plovdiv will host the initiative.................... the capital of culture........................................................................ This information was accepted with an extraordinary hope of Plovdiv people, fans of classical opera and symphonic art. For the team of the State Opera Plovdiv, this also means normal working and creative conditions. Dear Minister, at what stage are the procedures for selecting a project? What are its main parameters such as investment size, contractor and execution period? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u75	Thank you, dear Mr. Hristov. Minister Banov, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u76	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Hristov! In connection with your question, I inform you of the degree of implementation of the upcoming repair works in the Concert Hall. Plovdiv. There was a view of the site by technical persons, after which a technical assignment was prepared for the design of the site "Key repair and reconstruction concert hall as a multifunctional hall for symphony concerts and stage productions" with identifier 56784.522.937.2 under the Cadastral map and the Cadastral Register of the town. Plovdiv, Regulated Land Property I from the district 143 new, 318 old, according to the plan of the central city of Plovdiv, Plovdiv, square Plovdiv No. 1. By letter of the Director of the State Opera Plovdiv, from 28 December 2017 the technical assignment was received at the Ministry of Culture. In relation to the application of the provisions of art. 84 of the Cultural Heritage Act, by letter of the Ministry of Culture dated 10 January 2018, the technical assignment was sent for coordination to the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage. By letter dated 24 January 2018, the Ministry of Culture received the opinion of the National Institute for Real Cultural Heritage prepared in accordance with art. 84, para. 2 of the Cultural Heritage Act. The Ministry of Culture agreed the assignment on 7 February 2018. Following the completed legal procedures in coordination of the technical assignment for the design of the described site, a procedure is to be announced under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of a design team for the preparation of an investment project and quantitative accounts. Today I held very close and managed to sign the report, which gives the green light for the appropriate procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u77	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's a line for you, Mr. Christov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u78	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Thank you for your answer, and especially for his last part. My question was whether your promise will be fulfilled that the hall will be put into effect and will it be functional in 2019, especially taking into account the Bulgarian procedures related to public procurement? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u79	Thank you. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Banov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u80	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, dear Mr. Hristov! I never made a promise like that. I said we'd do everything we can to make it happen then, because I practically have no way of making that promise. It all depends on the appeal procedures. We can only walk legally. We've set aside funds for the design. There were ideas, eventually, to be able to become sooner, to make engineering, i.e. to go designing along with a public procurement. In view of the importance of the building, we decided that in 2019, as good as it would be for everything to happen, it is better that everything goes according to normal legal order. To have a clear project what it will be like, a stage mechanization, everything to be done, because you know that when engineering always remains an open question, whether everything is done as ordered. By obeying the laws, we will strive to do everything we need to do as quickly as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u81	Allow me to thank Boyl Banov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions to Mr. Nikolay Nenkov, Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. The first question is asked by the National Representative Ivan Ivanov about the repair of the Republican Road III-7003. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u82	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, today's issue, during parliamentary control, is dictated by meetings with citizens during reception. Of course, we take into account the desire and ability of your government to perform repairs on the roads of the Republican Road Network. Unfortunately, in this case, people have assessed the way and time in which this project is being carried out, because in practice, this section between the district of Makakakh of the town of Shumen and the village of Tsarev Brod has become a driving road, and winter, which creates exceptional dangers and prerequisites for accidents, including the withdrawal of human life. It is clear that in this season no repairs are being made and people are worried why has the renovation started at a time when it should not, is currently interrupted and in practice the road poses a danger to the lives and health of citizens? In this regard, please answer me when has the renovation of Republican Road III-7003 started at the district of Kvartal Makak, Shumen village of Tsarev ford? When does he have to graduate? What is the value of the assigned activities, and what has required to begin its rehabilitation at the time when it is clear that this activity will be interrupted and the road will remain in a condition where it is difficult to drive on it and is an extremely busy area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u83	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u84	Thank you. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the repair of the Republican road III-7003 Varbane The value of the assigned activities is 8 million. Thirty-five thousand. BGN 856. with VAT. In 2017, 2 million people were provided for the road. $863,000. £425. with VAT. Then why? Because the funds are under the programme on the current repair and maintenance on the basis of the mandate of the Council of Ministers, which, you know, as funds, as a resource was taken as a decision of the Council of Ministers in September. The repair of these 20 days started in October. By these means, the Agency entrusted the implementation of the preventive repair of the section of Tsarev ford to the roundabout Shumen from the third-class road, as it is in the most severe technical-service state, with numerous distortions and destructions, wears, cracks, holes and tracks. By the beginning of the winter season 2017 the following main activities were carried out: machine alignment of the banquet, cold cutting of the direct route, cleaning of drainage facilities, replacement of concrete curbs. There will be machine laying of solid and non-solid asphalt concrete, filling and profiling of banquets, installation of road signs and drainage systems, laying of horizontal marking. By the end of the construction season of the current year 2018, the section of Tsarev ford to the ring road Shumen, the district of Makak. on road III-7003 will be completed. In this year, we will also provide the rest of the funds. 172 thousand. BGN 430 for the completion of the project. To conclude perhaps, let's say that the preparatory activities have been carried out on the road before the winter season. Within 2018 from the beginning of the construction season, God forbid, in March we can be able to start, if the weather conditions are good, we will end with the laying of a basic and wearing layer and all the other things that I mentioned coming in 2018. Then why? Again I say: the PMS, which started and provided funds, was available in September. By the time we assigned it, for 20 days the technology project had to be proposed, it started in October. The road in this part is not complete. On the contrary, these are preparatory activities which will be fully implemented in 2018. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u85	Thank you, Minister Nankov. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u86	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, well, you've allocated funds, but my personal observation, I've also had the opportunity to pass along this precinct, is that largely from the information you've provided here, or you've been misled, or you've never been there. Neither the curbs have been replaced nor the drainage facilities. The fresco machine has passed, and the road looks like a Martian landscape. The movement on this area is extremely difficult and it is not a coincidence that I am asking this question because it is not logical, it is not normal, given the coming winter season, to take away the wearing layer of the road, and it was not in as bad a state as you described it, and it could wait until spring to carry out other activities. At the moment, I say again, there are road accidents happening, tires popping, and someone who controls the performance of this process on the spot must bear the corresponding responsibility. I ask this question for a reason, because I have received dozens of citizens who are outraged by the way the activities themselves are carried out. Okay, well, it's okay that you're gonna do this, but this has to respect a way that's responsible for traffic safety. However, your ministry is more or less responsible for what is happening on the roads. You say that we are fighting the war on the road, the priority of the government, while creating prerequisites for such a thing. My request to you is: if you have to order an examination of why it did so, why it came to this. This time it is in a terrible state and creates extremely serious prerequisites for the accidents and.. do not give God for the taking of human life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u87	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Here's your coat, Minister Nankov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u88	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, regarding the road safety of the site, the road is secure with all necessary road signs indicating that the road is currently under repair. When repairing road asphalt cover is carried out, the necessary restrictive signs, the required marking, alarm, which is available at present, shall be placed. So it is not an excuse to have an unscrupulous driver who does not give God speeding and does not respect these restrictions. It is normal to repeat when repairing the road is carried out. It is currently wintered, if time gives, we can start in two weeks its completion will probably be more appropriate in March. It is secured by the necessary signaling and marking of both horizontal and vertical.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u89	There's no marking.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u90	Marking both vertical and horizontal, I say. Signs are also kind of an alarm. Yeah, I'm gonna put in a photo check today so we can have a visual. Perhaps in about two weeks, I will be in the region of Varna, Shumen, so I will be able to gain personal impressions. But especially for Shumen region, then we will be much more thorough in the way that I do not say we choose sites and perhaps we direct financial resources. As the decree of 100 million. lv. it was for the whole of Bulgaria, maybe we shouldn't have directed resources in October to this road, but to some others that we could run faster. Note that only in 2017 of this 100 million. lv. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. they're in Shumen County. 10 million. 734 thousand. lv. are the renovations in Shumen County in these two months. Road III-701 border of Silistra District 430,000. lv. Timarevo "Stryno," road III-7004 (from the branch of the first-class I 7 through Timarevo, Stryno to the first-class road I-2), with a length of 9 km. 154,000. lv. I don't want to list everyone else. Road I-2 Ruse "Varna, 12 kilometers and 300 meters " 3 million. $150,000. lv. in 2017 The resource that is aimed at Shumen is really big. Maybe control should be better, too. Maybe that's what you're pointing me at. I mentioned: I will order an inspection today, but it is normal when repairs are carried out, and the speed to be limited, to have temporary inconvenience. The season wasn't chosen by accident, it wasn't chosen on purpose. The decree was voted on, I mentioned, and was approved in September. It is normal for repairs to start within 10, 15 to 20 days after approval of the Decree. If we hadn't mastered these funds within the calendar year, we wouldn't have done any repairs or continued it in 2018. It's simple logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u91	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the MPs Kolyo Milev and Tasco Ermenkov about the state of Republican road II-53, the district of Byala. Sliven. Here you go, Mr. Milev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u92	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, due to poor repair in recent years in the area of the cave in the region of Byala sliven, from Republican road II-53, bumps are received, which are dangerous to the movement and are a prerequisite for accidents, especially during the winter season, given that this is in the mountain. Our question to you, Minister, is: what measures will you take, and within what period to resolve once and for all the problem of this landslide, as there are underground waters, and perhaps a suitable technical solution should be adopted to prevent it from being activated in the future? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u93	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u94	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Milev, the landslide of the second-class road II-53 Elena "Sliven" at km 107+200, is included under No 29 in the list of prioritized landslides in the Republic of Bulgaria in relation to the procedure for prevention and countering landslide processes, to limit their risk under Priority Axis 4 of the Operational Programme "Environment 2014" in accordance with the Methodology adopted by the Advisory Council on landslide and geodynamic processes at the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works, that is to say it is included in the list for funding with European funds. In the event of a shortage of funds under this programme, the Ministry will seek funding for repair and permanent strengthening of the landslides from the Republican budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency. You know that in addition to the program "Main repair" we have the program "Emergency repair". In these programs we make similar investments. I mentioned the priority under No 29 if we have the opportunity to use a European resource, if it reaches funding, we will implement the site with a European one. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the fall of the section of about 40 meters from the present road in the area of the cave between the village of Byala and the town of Sliven is not the result of inappropriate and poor repairs, which you have put forward, but is due to the fact that it is located in a fault zone and under the road sail there are large cavities in the rocks found during an investigation carried out by a geological company under investigation by the Road Infrastructure Agency. Due to surface and groundwater and other adverse factors in the compromised area, the canvas is constantly failing. In order to ensure the safety of the movement, the section between the village of Byala and the town of Sliven is visited daily by specialists of the Regional Road Management The fact is that this is a palatial action, but by establishing what actions we will be able to complete it and finally. The road section has been signaled with the necessary road signs, a year-round limit has been introduced. The vehicle is banned from 10 tonnes from km 72+200 to km 112+550. The Road Infrastructure Agency has taken the necessary steps to launch a procedure for the reinforcements of the landslides in the area. In April 2015, the Council adopted Decision (CFSP) 2015/1333 [2] appointing the members and alternate members of the Committee of the Regions for the period from 26 April 2015 to 25 April 2020. In May, after a procedure under the Public Procurement Act, the Road Infrastructure Agency entered into a contract with the company "Geoconstruct" with the subject of the project and carried out the project activities of a landslide process on the Republican road II-53 Elena. On 12 June 2015, the company presented in the API the project development "Variant solutions" to strengthen the landslide section. The Expert Tech-Economic Council has chosen an option solution for the pilot-anker system, but a manifest factual error has been found in the Map of restored property in the land of the village of Byala. The plottary plan found that part of the properties affected by the project to repair the permanent reinforcement of the landslide are municipal property. In 2016, the API took action on the modification of the map of the restored property. According to information from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry by the end of February, the amendment procedure for KBC will be completed. After an order has been issued to the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests for the processing of the Map of Restored Property, the company is about to present a revised technical project which will be examined at the Expert Council in API. In the case of an approved project, the documentation will be submitted to the MRDP for authorisation under art. 96, para. 3 and 4 of the Law on Construction in the Area and issued a building permit, which is necessary document for the launch of the construction and repair and emergency actions themselves on the reinforcement of the landslide. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u95	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Milev, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u96	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, we cannot be satisfied with your answer, as the story you told us, we have known for years. I am worried that even at the moment we do not have a real technical solution, it is almost yet to be adopted a project that needs to be validated. Not to mention that the issue of alienation and authorisation procedures has not been resolved. As far as I'm concerned, you're not even prepared to perform an emergency repair of this precinct right now. So I will ask you as soon as possible for this process to be completed and for the repairs to be carried out, and we would be happy if we could also repair it with European funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u97	Thank you, Mr. Milev. Mr. Secretary?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Milev, perhaps you would be pleased if I had broken the law, or colleagues from the Road Infrastructure Agency would shorten deadlines to enter private property and state forest fund without having legal basis for it and to carry out the renovation. That's why the laws are, that's why the procedures are to be followed. Yeah, the fact is, in this case, we had a mistake in the KBC. What can you and I do, and all stakeholders, especially all road users, residents not only of the Sliven region, but also of neighbouring ones? However, we are making a really intense effort. Firstly, we have a commitment by the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry to conclude by the end of February with the procedure for accepting and reflecting the error in the Map of Restored Property and then to extract the building permit, the consultants I mentioned, to value the project and to complete the emergency reconstruction work so that this landslide can be strengthened long-term, not by the palliative actions that we are currently forced to carry out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u99	Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u100	Procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u101	Here you go, Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u102	Dear Mr. Chairman. I am taking a procedure in the manner of conduct because it is unacceptable when a minister answers questions to MPs showing concern about an entire area for a road on which they move, to use qualifications and to express that perhaps the national representative would be pleased if the minister violated the law. No MP is satisfied and does not ask the ministers to break the law. Therefore, you should make a remark to the Minister, because in this way the authority of the National Assembly, of the MPs, of their concern for their constituents is undermined. Perhaps it would have been better, Mr. President, if the minister, instead of giving this assessment to the people's representative, whether or not he broke the law, had thought about why there was a way that was supposed to be out of regulation, had it there, but had collapsed and, in order to correct it, there must be regulation. So I will ask you: make sure that the express forms of the ministers do not offend the MPs and stick to their answers in substance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u103	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. We continue with the next question to Minister Nankov. It is from the MP Lyubomir Bonev and is about the facility located 83+200 km from Republican road I-6 on the territory of Pernik region. You have the floor, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u104	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the House! Republican road I-6 is a first-class road from the Republican road network with a direction from west to east, passing through the territory of nine districts: Kyustendilska, Pernishka, Sofia, Plovdiv, Stara Zagorska, Slivenska, Yambolka and Burgas. On the territory of Pernik region, a bridge located at 83 km is important to be rehabilitated and reconstructed because this route is of national importance. In this regard, my question to you, Minister, is this: is repair and rehabilitation of the facility envisaged and within what deadlines? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u105	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister, with the appropriate means of expression.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev, I will be very careful about the expression I use, and even with the gesture I will leave my hands on the table. The construction of a bridge located 83+200 km, part of the Republican route I-6, passing through the territory of Pernik district, was built in 1992. The last repair was carried out in 2008. New waterproofing, asphalt layers were installed, new fugues, railings, guides, covers of inspection shafts, visible marking was cleaned, protective coating of steel bearings was applied. The last survey of the facility was carried out in 2014 by specialists from the Institute of Roads and Bridges. On the basis of the findings of the examination, repair work on the feet of the bridge has been prescribed. The investigation was carried out in a timely manner, as soon as specific measures were prescribed. The condition of the facility is monitored periodically by experts of the Regional Road Management Service Pernik. No serious problems were identified in the survey on the construction of the bridge. In order to include the road facility I-6 at 83+200 km in a repair program of the Road Infrastructure Agency, it is necessary for specialists from the Institute of Roads and Bridges to the API to carry out a detailed examination of the bridge and an assessment of its condition. The API plans, after the winter season, to carry out the necessary monitoring of the facility by specialists of the Institute on Roads and Bridges. On the basis of the findings of the examination, specific measures to be taken to improve the situation of the identified facility will be identified. I would just like to point out that in 2017, for ongoing repairs to maintain the Republican roads in the territory of the Regional Roads Administration of Pernik, more than 1 million have been invested. $800,000. lv. A horizontal marking of about 106 thousand has been placed. lv.; restrictive systems have been restored, the so-called......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... lv.; vertical signal is placed with indication plates of more than 18 thousand. lv. Apart from that, a procedure under the Public Procurement Act for the selection of a contractor for the rehabilitation of road III-1003 Rudartsi is currently taking place. The site is part of the Programme "Basic repair" of the Agency "Travel Infrastructure" and with a value of just over 7 million. lv. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u107	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line. Here you go, Mr. Bonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u108	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! In general, the facility serves its purpose, but its condition is very bad. As I said, the facility is part of road I 6 Kyustendil According to traffic cams, this is one of the busiest roads in Pernik region. From a personal visit to the site, I can tell you what I've found, which I've also applied pictures to. In places there is an exposed reinforcement of the main and cross beams and destroyed concrete. On one of the carrier pillars, a part of the armrest is hanging outside the section of the ladder and does not serve its purpose. Part of the bearing reinforcement in the tension area of the main beams is outside the section, thus compromising some of them. Minister, it is necessary to provide and implement in urgent order reconstruction and restoration of the bridge bearing construction and drainage in order to increase the stability and durability of the facility. You can see for yourself if you're interested. These are the pictures from the bridge, I'll leave them to you. [[The National Representative Lyubomir Bonev shows pictures of Minister Nikolay Nankov.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u109	Thank you, Mr. Bonev. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u110	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bonev! May I quote MPs, Mr. Chairman? Mr. Bonev mentioned, I do not want to qualify the facility itself as a good one, a very good one, a bad one and a very bad one. You said a very bad condition. In order to assess what the exact condition is, I mentioned that we will conduct an investigation as soon as we have this opportunity... based on weather conditions, at the end of the winter season, in order to know exactly what the condition is, exactly what repair activities it needs. Thank you for the photos, for the visual information you provide me. I admire that approach. We are assigning a specific thorough investigation to the Institute for Roads and Bridges in order not to qualify for the status of the bridge as a good one, a bad one, a very bad one, a bad one. We know exactly what his defects are, what repairs he needs. And I mentioned that we are launching repairs immediately if it is proven that there are similar vices and deficits. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u111	Thank you, Minister. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the MP Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov, and it is about the repair of road I-1 from the quarter. "Knyazhevo" to Daskalovo Road Node. You're welcome to state the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u112	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Nankov! Dear Minister, according to traffic cams on road I-1 of the square. The average 24-hour intensity of the car traffic is 30 841 passed the car. This shows that the route is one of the busiest roads in the country. Especially is the problem of congestion, the formation of columns in rush hours and holiday days. At the end of 2017 in the section of the road passing through the territory of Sofia Municipality was renovated. The rest, which passes through the territory of the municipality of Pernik, to the road node of Daskalovo, has not been repaired. The station is highly compromised, with multiple open cracks, deep digs. Dear Minister, the last complete repair of this road was made in the distant 2001 period of operation of the facility has long since expired. Given the extremely high load of the track, it is important to change the organisation of the movement by introducing a relevant one. My question to you is: are the construction of the section of road I-1 of the square? "Knyazhevo" to Daskalovo road node in the part passing through the territory of Pernik municipality, as well as the introduction of a reversible movement through traffic lights?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u113	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u114	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, road I-1 from Sq. "Knyazhevo" to Daskalovo road node is really characterized by intense traffic, especially in rush hours, in the days after holidays and before them, in one of the two directions. Last year, precisely because of the facts that you have put into your question, the Road Infrastructure Agency (R &amp; D) provided funds under the Programme "Current repairs and maintenance" for the implementation of repair activities on road I-1 in the section of Alexandrov Bridge in the district of Aleksandrov. "Knyazhevo" near the border with Pernik district, the territory of Sofia-city district. With the same decree, which I answered just now to my colleague Ivan Ivanov for the Shoumen Road, this year funds will be allocated from the budget of the Agency for road infrastructure for repairs of a section which is located in the territory of Pernik Municipality from the service station to the road hub Daskalovo, as well as for a reversal of traffic through traffic services. A commitment, by the way, which we took last year, again to your question. Then I answered you negatively, but it is better to respond negatively and once we have found the means to realize an object of such importance than to feed illusory hopes, to draw a bright future and not do our job. The site started in October 2017. At this time the asphalt flooring is laid and the horizontal marking is placed in the section of Sofia region. After the winter season is over, the project will continue. There will be excavations, excavations and waterfalls, filling banquets and restoring restrictive systems along the way. There are currently two traffic lights built in this section. The first one is at Vladaya Station of the type "Runway pedestrian" i.e. only signals the passage of pedestrians. The second traffic light is at Alexandrov Bridge, which is with the request of pedestrians by button. The station located on the territory of Pernik Municipality, for which you asked the specific question from the gas station to the road hub of Lukoil to Daskalovo, is 4.2 km long, shorter than the section of the territory of Sofia region, three kilometers four km four-track road and a kilometer two hundred meters three-track. The three-band section is from the intersection for the village of Dragichevo to the road node of Daskalovo. We will assign the development of a technology project for these two or three weeks until the start of the construction season, but without it the indicative value of expert evaluation is about 6 million. lv. As I have already answered, the Road Infrastructure Agency is planning this year to continue with the renovation activities in this area as well as to commission a reverse movement through a traffic light system. My colleagues have prepared other information: how much we have invested last year in the section of these 4.2 km in Pernishka region.................... about 360 thousand. BGN, but for palliative repairs under the current repair, which do not solve the whole problem. That's $6 million. BGN, which we set aside in 2018, will be enough to complete this section from the gas station to the road hub of Daskalovo, so that all tens of thousands of Bulgarian citizens who use this extremely busy route of entrance-exit of Sofia to Southwestern Bulgaria can enjoy a good infrastructure. The fact is that more than 30 years of major repairs have not been made. We are currently preparing and running simulations for traffic lights to the extent that the initial data is good, but will solve the problem of traffic jams in peak hours, as it will indeed be extremely difficult as well as procedures, and extremely expensive, resource-intensive is thinking about another tape, which is not impossible in the future. But the short-term solution is what we are doing right now -- a complete rehabilitation, and in the three-way section -- a reversible traffic with traffic lights, in rush hours, two-way traffic, so that we can really solve at least at this stage the problem of the huge traffic jams that occur in this section. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u115	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here you are, Mr. Vladimirov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u116	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Nankov, I am pleased that after my question, I have focused the attention of your Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency to start repairing this extremely busy section, as you mentioned earlier. I am partly satisfied with your response that you will actually continue the renovation this year in the territory of Pernik Municipality, as you mentioned, one of the busiest sections of the Republican road network, a section that causes numerous problems for travelers along this route. Most of the travelers had hope, it is good that from your words it was heard about the construction of another tape, because in Bulgaria, after all, the road users, all who are drivers, do not have such built habits to use the routes that have traffic lights. Yes, indeed, with these measures, which you say in the short term that you will take this year to place a reversible movement in the sections that will be repaired, and which will be three strips, I hope that a preliminary campaign will be undertaken so that no serious incidents can be caused, because, as I told you, we still do not have so many built sections in Bulgaria to have the habit of using the routes that are in reverse movement. I would like to draw your attention to the building of the area of Pernik Municipality. Don't think of it as a pickle, but the situation of a new plaster of asphalt where the righting machine, you might explain to me more precisely, where part of the wearing asphalt ends and where the new part of the asphalt has probably started, there are already falls, the so-called cross-fee, some of the shafts are not well made, puddles are formed when there are more showers. You mentioned that the route is under repair and that this year the drainage channels that are on the side will also be made and the banquets will be completed, because if we stop only until the pavement is laid, I am sure that after a certain period of time under the influence of weather conditions we will have to repair this area again. As you said, it has not been repaired for nearly 40 years and I am sure that if we do not do it quality now, we cannot hope that it will be repaired again in the near future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u117	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Mr. Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Vladimirov, I have no right to be offended, as your colleague said, so I'm not offended. On the contrary, only once again will I recall what I said in the answer to the question that even a section of the Pernik municipality, an error in the language perhaps, of Sofia.. it is the renovated section, but it is not finished. I mentioned what activities are ahead, including improving the condition of the shafts. We have four shafts that we see need to be made, new fugues, new concreteing of the shafts. Separately, the excavations, the vents, the watercourses that we commented about, the cross-fuga, we are talking about an open object that has not been accepted as completed activities. Regarding the fact of partial satisfaction, I am also partly satisfied with what we do in this case, as I admit, the logic of such a busy stretch is even having not four but six strips. But if we waited to start with estranged procedures, with plotted plans, we should realize that not two more, but another five or six years we would have been going through the troubles and we wouldn't even have what we did in the Sofia area right now. This year we finish the section of these 4 km and 200 m on the territory of Pernik region. Reversible traffic lights - how good is that? That's why I mentioned that we're doing a simulation right now. Road Infrastructure Agency (R &amp; D) together with colleagues dealing with the topic of road safety and we are currently doing a reversal, but in a much more resold way, you know, with the so-called cones, balyzes, on the weekends, on the holidays at the start of the holidays, on Fridays in the direction of Pernik and Sundays at the end of the festive days in the direction of Sofia on two lanes. The traffic lights, with perhaps better control by the DMV colleagues, are also a very widely applicable method in the countries of Central and Western Europe. So I think we're headed not only geopolitically, but mentally, and mentally into the civilized world. These good practices, introduced more than 20 years ago in some countries of Central and Western Europe, are high time to start applying them in Bulgaria as well. The fact is that I am also a driver and I am convinced that it will initially be difficult for drivers, but given that at seven, eight, nine traffic lights within these nine kilometers in total, it will be very easy to adjust, as the alarm and the marking will give this clarity in which direction, in which time ranges and daily ones we will have two directions and in which one to move. But the global solution is what you said. This, and I realize that from now on we need to start thinking about procedures for alienation and expansion of the route. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Nankov is from the MP Nikolay Tishev and is about illegal construction in the village of Novo Panicharevo. Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u120	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! During the parliamentary control on 3 November last year of my question about illegal construction in the village of Novo Panicharevo, Primorsko Municipality, you answered the following and I will quote you: On 2 October this year a further consideration of the illegal construction by the National Construction Control Directorate has been carried out, although it is outside our competence at present. I'll tell you what administrative action we're going to take. You asked the right question. We have such an opportunity. In the examination it has been found that illegal construction has not been abolished, which is why its immediate removal has been ordered. We have this right to control municipal administrations how to perform control of objects of fourth, fifth and sixth categories. The deadline is one month. You know what the clauses are, what are the administrative penal provisions in the Law on the Construction of the Area. If illegal construction is not removed, administrative responsibility will be sought for the guilty officials, in this case by Primorsko Municipality. These are the persons who have not taken the necessary action. And in this regard, we will exercise our full right of control. As I mentioned, we have no follow-up to competence in the municipal administration. And in the back then you state the following: on 2 October we do not have an object removed. At the moment, we want the documentation available to see what the hypothesis is and why the municipality has been delayed because of the lack of an elected contractor or an appeal against the order or an award letter. I'll let you know in writing as soon as I get a response from Primorsko Municipality. With all the strictness of the law, as we proceed, we will fulfill our commitments and powers. As I have written in my second question, I am displeased to inform you that almost three months after the expiry of the one-month period for removing the construction from Primorsko municipality the illegal building remains intact on municipal land. I have also not received an answer, as you promised, in writing, I am opening up a clamp after I have already submitted my second question, a few days ago I received a written answer, but that is ten days after I have submitted a second question, in which I quote your promise, which was not fulfilled within three months. So in relation to the above, my questions to you are: how long does it take for the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the National Construction Control Directorate to impose the enforcement of the law and the abolition of the illegal site in Primorsko Municipality? Have any sanctions been imposed on the municipality of Primorsko or its employees for the apparent refusal to apply art. 223 of the Law on Construction in the Area and will you make a commitment with a certain time horizon for the completion of the above-mentioned case, that is, the elimination of illegal construction, or in three months we will meet again, again here, at parliamentary control, where you will have to explain the case? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u121	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Here you are, Mr. Minister. You have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Tishev, I'm flattered that you quoted two thirds of the question asked by the shorthand from the previous parliamentary control, you're asking me the same question again. I remember what I said. I'll tell you where you went wrong, but I don't get any grades, of course. You have rightly mentioned and touched on the subject of administrative procedures, appeal procedures. Don't make me break court decisions, or I'll rule before the court decides. I'll explain what I mean. For the removal of the illegal construction "one-storey building with hexagonal shape with dimensions 3,90 to 4,20, 3,80 to 8,20, 4,80 to 3 meters, located in district 3a in the village of Novo Panicharevo in the municipality of Primorsko, was issued an order No 709 from 13 July 2017 by the mayor of Primorsko municipality. On 4 September 2017, an on-the-spot check was carried out by an employee of the municipal administration concerning the actual state of the illegal construction where it was found that it was not voluntarily removed. On 31 October 2017, a review of the construction was carried out in connection with the taking of forced removal actions under the Order on the enforcement of orders for the removal of illegal constructions or parts thereof of the Municipality of Primorsko from 2013. There's a message stuck on the construction site. No 92-00-194 of 31 October 2017 concerning the initiation of the enforcement procedure of the order, for which a constitutional protocol of 31 October 2017 has been drawn up, also certifying that the object is uninhabitable and that the execution of the order will not constitute a potential risk of accidents. On 1 November 2017, officials from the Regional Department of State National Construction Control in Burgas, the Regional Directorate, carried out a verification check at the site where it was mentioned that the order for removal has not yet been executed. After an order given by letter, I'm out. No BS-1378-04-535 of 3 November 2017 of the National Construction Control Directorate to the Mayor of Primorsko Municipality, it has provided information that on 6 November 2017 the municipality of Primorsko was objected by Boyko Ivanov Simeonov and Rumyana Iryordanova against a message, exh. No 92 00 194 of 31 October 2017, which I quoted a moment ago, to the municipal administration and against the order cited "No 709 of 13 July 2017" by the mayor of Primorsko Municipality for the removal of illegal construction. According to the provision of art. 146, para. 1 of the Administrative Code of Procedure, the challenge of the relevant acts shall suspend the implementation of the administrative act. It shall simply suspend it. In the case of the order of the mayor of Primorsko to remove, which I quoted "No 709 of 13 July 2017, there is no way to violate neither we nor the mayor of Primorsko procedures and corresponding texts, which you, the MPs, have voted on.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. 166, para. 1. The complaint brought administrative proceedings No 3056 of 2017 and concluded the hearing on 31 January 2018 and expected the court to give a decision within one month. I repeat, the hearing was closed on 31 January 2018. It is for this reason, and not because you asked a second question, that we answered you in writing after the court closed the case that the procedure is the one which I am now telling you from the parliamentary tribune. At present, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works cannot commit itself to a specific deadline for the implementation of the procedural order prior to the completion of the legal proceedings and before the judgment of the Court, the notification of all interested parties to the defendants, the municipality, of course, and the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works and the final judicial decision. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. A line? Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, the information I have is that you wrote me the written answer after you received such an answer from Primorsko Municipality, right, because it is the case against her? You are the Minister of one of the largest ministries in Bulgaria, one of the most resourceful, and here my question is: how long does it take the Ministry to request a response from any municipality? That was your application three months ago and up. One or two weeks later, I understand, but after three months, only at the beginning of February, a reply from the municipality arrives, and on February 5 you reply in writing to me what I have just said that there is actually an appeal against the order for removal from the municipality. That's one. Secondly, three years no action by the National Construction Control Directorate, the Regional Directorate for National Construction Control, the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works respectively. Then since 2012, the Law on Construction on the Area has been amended and orders to remove illegal objects fourth, fifth and sixth categories pass into the powers of the municipalities. From there until July 2017 another five years of inaction by the municipality of Primorsko itself. Is it true that if, even then, I leave the inaction of the National Building Control Directorate, but if 2012 were to take action to remove the illegal object and a warrant was issued, all these appeal procedures within a year would have ended and we would not have talked about this case at all. In the end, I did not hear the answer to the question. "Five years of inaction of the administration of Primorsko municipality, that is, a clear reluctance to implement the Law, and they are obliged therefore, any sanctions will there be? Because as a matter of fact, the operation of the municipality is a consequence of the first question, we have nothing to lie about. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u125	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Mr. Minister, I'd like you to come in and get your coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Tishev, I am obviously an incompetent minister and I want you to explain to me: in what way can I demand, within a specific time limit, to oblige, and to sanction the mayor to answer me within three months, a month or two weeks? To quote the regulations of this nomenclature to me within what time I can ask the mayor to respond to me and to sanction him if he fails to respond to me within a period of time for objective or non-executive reasons. I mentioned there's a court proceedings pending in this case. According to the final acts in the procedure, it is not in principle as easy as you describe it, it is always the law: we must have reciprocity in defending the interests of both parties, as the public is protected by the authorities of the DNCK and the municipality, as well as the private interest of the owner of the establishment, whether it is legally built, there must be procedural protection and the right to judicial protection. Therefore, in this case, we see that to the last instance, to the last stage after the order for removal, we await the court's ruling. If it confirms the order and accordingly gives a ruling in favour of the municipality, the municipality will now be subject to sanctions for failure to comply with its obligations to remove the illegal establishment which has been found to be illegal by both the municipality and the authorities of the State and by all of us. The elimination procedure is regulated. There's a regulation I can introduce you to. There are procedures I mentioned the complaint against the order and the notice is against the order of the AKK, art. 166, para. 1. Indeed, there is no way that an administrative authority....................................................................................................... It's my backrest in a summary version. Stay calm! Indeed, one month is the period of the Court of Justice following the judgment on 31 January 2018. "Consider that we are talking about the beginning of March when we need to have a decision given, which is final, will accordingly tolerate a penalty if the removal authority fails to comply with its regulations and order. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u127	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. This ended the questions to Minister Nankov. We continue with questions to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy Mr. Biser Petkov with a question from the MPs Kristina Sidorova and Teodora Halacheva about irregularities in the Family Type Accommodation House for Children with Disabilities in Gabrovo. Please come in and present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u128	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Our question of today's parliamentary control is related to irregularities in the Family Type Accommodation House for Children with Disabilities in the city of Gabrovo. Dear Minister, the political change in the Republic of Bulgaria has found our country with a system that does not meet the humane requirements for caring and raising children deprived of parents and family. Since the mid-1990s, reform has started in this area, which was aimed at deinstitutionalization of children. Of course, not just by removing children from the institutions themselves, but as a comprehensive and long-term state policy. Governments with prime ministers Mr. Saxe-Coburg and Mr. Sergey Stanishev have done a lot in this direction. Here their efforts were supported by the European Union, by the UN and by organisations such as UNICEF. Honor also makes the government with Prime Minister Borisov, which continued the policy in this direction, adopting a Strategy which is for a vision for deinstitutionalization of children in the Republic of Bulgaria, where the sub-paragraph 2 of the Strategy is as follows: Increasing the capacity of the child protection system by clearly defining and effective distribution of the powers and responsibilities of the protection authorities, service providers and ensuring adequate professional capacity for the functioning of the system. Greatly written, but, unfortunately, nothing is done in this direction. Seven years after the adoption of the Strategy, once again this year we are learning about stressful cases of violence in institutions for raising children this time in Gabrovo, and last year you answered two of my questions about irregularities in the housing of children deprived of parental care in the town of Karlovo. Therefore, my question and my colleague Sidorova is related to this: has a check been carried out for irregularities at the Family Type Housing House for Children with Disabilities (Hrisantema)? What are the results of the check and is there a system and mechanisms in place for timely reporting of child abuse in the institutions for accommodation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u129	Thank you, Mrs. Halacheva. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u130	Mr. Chairman, Mrs. Halacheva, Mrs. Sidorova, ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly! In connection with an electronic media report on physical and psychological violence against children placed at the Family Type Accommodation Centre for Children and Young People with Disabilities, the town of Gabrovo, the district of Trendafil, the street of Hrysantema and the Social Assistance Agency in the period 23 January this year and the State Agency for Child Protection on 24 January 2018 of the two centers in the district of Trendafil. The Agency for Social Assistance and the State Agency for Child Protection until 18 January 2018 have not received any reports of irregularities or violence against children in those homes. The findings of the Inspectorate of the Agency for Social Assistance and the SACP are based on an overview of the compulsory documentation and files of the children; conversations with the staff of both centers and with children; monitoring of daily rhythms and relationships between children and staff; held talks Mayor, Deputy Mayor, Director of the Directorate of the Municipality of Gabrovo and the social worker left at that time. The inspectors from the ASP and the State Agency for Child Protection have found that the employees of the Center in the district of Trendafil are using inappropriate methods of education for children and young people as verbal violence, expressed in insults and cries and physical violence. During the verification of the State Agency for Child Protection in the other Center "Borovo" there were no violations and omissions. The Center of the State Agency for Child Protection identified deficiencies in: negative micro-climate caused by interpersonal conflicts between heads and staff; application of unacceptable methods of education by employees to consumers; established case of physical violence from January 2018 on the part of a child by an employee; cases of verbal aggression on the part of staff and between users; findings that staff is trained but needs upbuilding training; is not supervised in order to prevent professional burns; reduced control of the service by the management and by the supplier; failure to comply with the established rules and procedures for training and discipline for incidents for violence. A mandatory prescription with six recommendations is given to remedy the deficiencies and violations identified by the State Agency for Child Protection. Five acts have been made for three employees to fail to comply with the obligation to cooperate under art. 7 paragraphs 1 and 2 of the Child Protection Act. The District Prosecutor's Office is addressed for three employees who have committed violence against children. The mayor of the municipality of Gabrovo is proposed to impose punishment on two municipal officials. The new head of the Centre has been proposed to impose a penalty on three employees. The Department of Social Assistance and Social Assistance has been notified... Gabrovo, Ministry of Interior Regional Directorate of Gabrovo, Regional Health Inspectorate. The State Agency for Child Protection is currently carrying out a check at the Department of Social Assistance (SCI) on 7 February 2018, to determine whether the higher interests of the children of the service are guaranteed. The Inspectors of the Social Assistance Agency (Social Assistance Agency) found that the Head of the Centre has not taken timely adequate measures to ensure the health and safety of children. The videos of child abuse have been dated December 2016, and the competent authorities have been referred to by the Head in January 2018. The Head has not complied with art. 7, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Child Protection Act. There is a book on registering complaints and complaints in which there are no entries, however. The Inspectorate of the ASP has proposed that video surveillance should be introduced for resident services for children and individuals with physical disabilities, mental disorders and mental retardation. On the other part of your question, I would like to stress that there is a working and active mechanism for alerting responsible institutions in cases of child abuse, which is listed in art. 7, para. 1 and para. 2 of the Child Protection Act. In the case of child abuse, the opportunities for alerting are to the Departments of Child Protection and Social Assistance and to the State Agency for Child Protection, which can be done by email, by mail, on the National Telephone Line for Children with No 116-111, on phone 112 and in writing in any regional management of the Ministry of Interior. An alert may be submitted to any state institution which, under the Administrative Procedure Code and the Child Protection Act, has the obligation to forward the alert to the competent institution. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Siderova, are you going to make the line? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u132	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, thank you for your comprehensive response. I listened with interest to the findings of the inspection at the Family Type Accommodation Centre for children with disabilities in Gabrovo, as I am also a Member of the National Assembly from the town of Gabrovo. Unfortunately, however, with pain I say: the mechanism that you said existed to alert violations and to invade children does not work. You yourself say that the first case of violence is from December 2016 and we learn about it only in 2018. Perhaps the link between the control bodies and the people who care about the children should be strengthened. It is unacceptable what happened in Gabrovo in 2018. What is the guarantee that such things do not happen in other homes? Unfortunately, I'm saying this because an interpersonal conflict has brought out horrific facts in media and public space. The lack of permanent quality monitoring to register the problems and to help solve them in a timely manner is one of the major problems in these centres. Moreover, there is insufficient and ineffective interaction of resident services with the health, education and police. Because if the staff and director of the home had not been in a severe conflict to reach the Ombudsman and national media, the horrors in this house would continue. I think that here the role and work of the verifiers of the Social Assistance Directorate and of the Social Assistance Directorate of the municipality and of the territory should be strengthened. Let's get out of the offices and out of the rooms and into these centers, surprise checks. Let them communicate with the children, let them see what's really going on there. Because we got the kids out of the old homes, put them in some really beautiful new daycare centers and family-type accommodations, only we brought the old culture and the old way of working from the old institutions to the new ones. And that's unacceptable! I think that in this direction there should be work and I believe that better things will happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u133	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Mr. Minister, will you use the right to the backrest? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u134	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Sidorova, in my reply I tried to concentrate precisely on the question asked by providing information on the checks carried out in the case, on the penalties imposed. I stress that the acts drawn up by the control bodies of the State Agency for Child Protection are precisely for non-compliance with the provisions of art. 7, para. 1 and 2 of the Child Protection Act, which oblige in such cases to be flagged. With regard to the issue of deinstitutionalization of child care, I would like to emphasise in general and add to what Mrs Halacheva said that this process continues in 2016 was adopted an updated action plan for the implementation of the Strategy. The government has been working irrevocably on implementing the measures and activities provided for in this updated plan, as a result of the particular case we are talking about here, meetings were held last week with representatives of non-governmental organizations, who are also providers of services for children in the community, some of them and resident services. Joint actions have been targeted to ensure a higher quality of care in family-type accommodation centres and to prevent violence. These actions will be discussed at the forthcoming meeting of the Interdepartmental Working Group on Deinstitutionalization of Child Care, and then changes will be considered and undertaken in the methodologies for quality of services, which will be the subject of the Permanent Expert Working Group on Deinstitutionalization, so I believe that with these efforts that are being made, we will be able to really improve the quality of care and carry out a real prevention of such cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u135	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Petkov is from the MP Sevim Ali and is about the measures to improve the working conditions and pay for the social workers and employees of Here you are, Mr. Ali, to present the nature of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u136	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The employees of the Directorates for Social Assistance serve more than three million of the population of Bulgaria as entitled or in need of assistance, that is, every second or third Bulgarian citizen has a business relationship and needs the support of the Directorates for Social Assistance, and this, honourable colleagues, makes them socially important. The employees of these Social Assistance Directorates work with the most vulnerable groups of the population with children, adults, single people, people with disabilities, people with low incomes or no income, people released from prison, people with poor health, abandoned, homeless and others. At the same time, social activity in the directorates is burdened with huge volumes of paperwork on all regulations. Each social worker has an unrealistic number of requests for admission, processing, inquiry and at the same time there are a huge number of cases, signals, court cases, case files and studies for other institutions. Not a small part of social workers work under daily stress and an immediate risk of harming their privacy from angry and dissatisfied, and there are no missing cases of beaten and threatened social workers. I can give an example from the summer of 2017 in the city of Bourgas. Against the background of all this in this system there is no class of time served, such as gross salary, honourable colleagues, dear Minister, is equal to the basic. In education, health care, police, municipal administration, the time served stands, except for civil servants, as an additional payment to the basic remuneration. The inclusion of the class for serviced time and internship to the basic salary and the implementation of the stupid regulations and laws of Dyankov, in fact, froze the possibility of a smooth and annual increase in wages in this important sector for the Bulgarian society. In this regard, my question to you, Mr Minister, is: what real and concrete measures does your ministry provide for, and within what deadlines, for adequate and dignified pay for the labour of social workers and employees in the territorial directorates for social assistance and improving the conditions under which they work? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u137	Thank you, Mr. Ali. You have the floor to answer, Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u138	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ali! The formation and, subsequently, the retention of low levels of wages at the Social Assistance Agency began with its establishment in 2003. Under the terms of a currency board and strict financial constraints, passing from the mixed municipality and state to financing entirely at the expense of the state budget, the wage levels were kept low and changed by an average percentage set in the State Budget Act for the year in question, when such a measure was envisaged. With the entry into force of 1 July 2012, a new pay model has been applied to the Public Administration Staff Regulations. In accordance with the Ordinance, the Labour Code and the Law on the Civil Service Officer, the salary of the employees is formed as a sum of the basic wage and additional remuneration for work experience and professional experience. At the same time, a decree of the Council of Ministers was adopted, which provided funds under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy for the Agency for a single salary increase of up to 20% from 1 July of the same year. In accordance with the funds established under the budget for the relevant year for the Fund "Work salary" in the Agency, an increase in the individual salary of employees on the basis of art. 12, para. On the basis of the annual assessment of the performance of the post in 2016 by an average of 10% and in 2017, 1 and 2 of the Public Administration Staff Regulations. On average, 5%. An increase on the same basis is to be made on average by 10% this year. There shall also be a step-by-step increase by up to 5% of the salaries of employees whose probation period has expired. In 2016 and 2017, twice a year the Agency has paid additional remuneration for results, and after carrying out an analysis of costs and in the event of a cost savings of staff funds, additional remuneration will also be paid in 2018. In order to improve the working conditions of employees in the Agency's territorial units in 2017, major repairs were carried out on nine administrative buildings. The heating installations are renovated, office furniture, heating appliances and air conditioning are purchased. The Agency's budget for 2018 contains funds for capital expenditure, mainly major renovations of buildings, purchase of software and hardware. Within the framework of the Project "Increasing the capacity of employees in the field of child protection, social services and social assistance" implemented under the Operational Programme "Human Resources Development", an analysis of the workload of employees and the preparation of the criteria for numbers in the "Social assistance". Finally, I would like to assure you that the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is clearly aware of the depth and complexity of the issues related to both increased salaries in the Agency and reaching a level of pay for the work of the social worker corresponding to the specifics and responsibilities of the profession, public expectations and attitudes, and will continue to take all measures to improve the remuneration and working conditions of employees in the social sphere. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ali.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u140	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, thank you for your reply. Regarding the upcoming wage increase, which you said is coming from an average of 10% in 2018, this is a good signal to employees in this system, but agree that it is extremely insufficient given the volume of work in these directorates, given the competences of these employees. Unfortunately, honourable Members, we have had proposals from the opposition in this particular direction that we have made during the budget review. They weren't accepted. My question is dictated by the last reception room I had in Burgas. At the time, I was familiar with a petition to support the demands of social workers and employees in this system, it was about both salaries and working conditions in this system, and, my dear Minister, it became clear that not a few employees in this area received lower remuneration than the minimum wage for the country. But the conversation between us ended with the fact that these employees do not feel obliged to serve the interest of the people who need the support of the state, and they feel called upon to help these people, so our request is to allow the state in your person to approach these people with the same responsibility. The real danger is that if we continue with this policy, the social system will be stripped in our country and good employees, specialists with longstanding experience in the field to leave this system, because everyone has the right to provide a good standard of living for their family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u141	Thank you, Mr. Ali. Mr. Minister, would you like to use the right to the backrest? I won't. That concludes the questions to Minister Petkov. Thank you for today, Mr. Secretary. The next question is to Minister Krasimir Valchev, Minister of Education and Science. He is from the National Representative Ivan Valentinov Ivanov and is about the payment of compensation for illegal dismissals in educational institutions in the territory of the Regional Management of Education. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, to present the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u142	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! I am asking you this question about a written question which I have asked you and, in general, a series of questions which I am asking about the work of the Regional Education Management in Shumen. Dear Minister, in your reply, we have discussed other times on this topic, I am getting information that for the period 2015 - 2016 because I have this information, it is very likely that in 2017 there will be more such cases, there have been accumulated 16 465 BGN. benefits paid, plus, I gave you a material that you hadn't included here, and I asked you then to take responsibility for, because we're getting into the column of "untrue content document" because the official answer you gave me was missing. In the case of the village of Venets, I think it exceeds 20,000. lv. According to the current Penal Code, this is a damage to the state budget because they are paid by the salaries of Bulgarian citizens, paid by the taxes that we import, all of us here, because certain civil servants do not act or commit illegal acts in this direction. My question to you is: who bears the financial and disciplinary responsibility for these benefits paid for the wrongful dismissal in educational institutions in the territory of the ROU? Shumen, employees, directors, teachers and so on? And will you take any measures in this direction, because otherwise, if the Ministry does not take it, I will be forced to refer to the prosecution, because this, according to our Penal Code, is a damage to a state budget in large amounts, as a certain amount goes by there. My request is, in the line I will develop, actually take some attitude to the Ministry of Education and Science, as things escalate there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u143	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u144	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Ivanov, the order and grounds for seeking disciplinary liability are laid down in the Law on the Civil Service and in the Labour Code. The reason for engaging in disciplinary liability of civil servants within the meaning of the Law on the Civil Service Officer for the imposition of disciplinary punishment is a guilty failure to comply with their duties. The subject of disciplinary misconduct is only the civil servant and not his appointing authority. The disciplinary liability within the meaning of the Labour Code is a penalty for the wrongful conduct of the worker, respectively the employee of the employment relationship, for guilty behaviour in violation of labour discipline. It is the employee or employee who can bear disciplinary responsibility rather than his employer. The types of violations of the duties for which disciplinary punishment is imposed are detailed in both laws. The issue of an order to terminate an employee's relationship, which was later revoked by the court, does not constitute a disciplinary violation, which is why a disciplinary liability of its publisher could not be sought. The compensation for the illegal dismissal of a worker or employee shall be awarded by the competent court dealing with the labour law dispute. As such, they are required and compulsory payable by the employer without the need for his guilt for the wrongfulness of dismissal. The implementation of capital and financial responsibility is an exclusive right only of the specialized body "the Agency for State Financial Inspection. It shall be the authority which, in the event of infringements detected and damage, shall issue a revision act or an act of review under the State Financial Inspection Act. In this case, in none of the schools in the territory of Regional Education Management, Shumen, the State Financial Inspection Agency has found any infringement or damage for which it has issued a revision act or an audit act. I also got acquainted with the information you provided me with regarding the secondary school of Vaptsarov in the village of Venets. Mr. Mehmet is not disciplinaryly dismissed, and his relationship has been terminated due to the recovery of an illegally fired employee. The Head of the Regional Educational Administration is obliged to execute the court's decision. Following the actions of the then Chief of the Regional Inspectorate of Education Shumen, then, during the period in question, the school in the village of Venets paid Mr. Mehmed around 6800 BGN, and the amount includes legal expenses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u145	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u146	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I've been listening to you in the media today. You said nothing in education can stay in the dark. This case also cannot remain in the dark, because no matter how much you list us here the legal provisions and what the law says about the different types of liability, there is no way to hide the fact that more than 20,000 have already been paid. lv. for cases like this. This means that there is a systematic and uncontrolled violation of the law. Dear Minister, is the fact that you do not have audit acts of the State Financial Inspection Agency that mean that such financial checks have been carried out there at all? I don't think so. My appeal to you is: the Ministry and you as a minister to take on your role and actually eliminate these irregularities that have been identified. They're already becoming practice, unfortunately, and bad practice. Do not become a front for someone's political interests, because education cannot be a political hostage of someone's personal and party interests. This reminds me of the direction in which we are going to change our curricula and so on. Bringing in and politicizing local structures, teachers from there, because it is clear to everyone that this is a political assignment, which is guarded and put an umbrella over it, means that the entire education system will collapse. You are the person who has to take care of and observe these processes. Do not let the employees be in an environment where their superiors feel unpunished, because these are not isolated cases. It is not for a reason that for the third time in a row I am raising this topic and will continue because the complaints that come from the Director of the Regional Management of Education in Shumen are not one-off. We've talked about it here, that the state isn't filled, people are leaving, and not just because of wages, but because there's just no atmosphere at work. That's it! My request and the appeal of noisy teachers is that you really take action. If you don't, I, as the MP, will also refer to the D.A.'s office in this direction, at least for these financial violations that I presented here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u147	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u148	Mr. Ivanov, you must have reasons for the attitude towards the work of the Regional Management of Education, but speaking of the case, this is not only a problem in Shumen, it is not only a problem for the Regional Management of Education. This is a problem for all schools, for all public organizations, for all sectors. And that's the legal act we can't classify as a violation the cases for payment of compensation by budgetary undertakings. When a person has been unlawfully fired and has been reinstated by the court, yes, compensation is due. In this case, there must be responsibility, but it cannot be classified as a violation. We have this problem not so much with regional management as with all the principals and schools in the system. You know, we have a teacher release, and it's in the other public systems. Of course, this may affect a general assessment of the attestations and other mechanisms we have to assess the results of an employee's work, but I cannot classify it as a violation. You said you'd give it to the D.A. If you help us by which member to classify it as a violation of the Penal Code, I myself will take action.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u149	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the MP Slavi Netsov about upcoming reforms in the school in the town of Vratsa. Here you are, Mr. Netsov, to lay out the essence of the matter.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u150	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Mr. Minister, the problems in education are not from today and not from yesterday. They are the fruit of.. not to qualify for the management.. Your previous ministers, and you as minister can not solve all problems in education with a magic stick. But with your professional competence that you have, you could keep what is upgraded and which can be upgraded in the future. My question is about the upcoming reforms in the Middle School............................ the city of Vratsa. Dear Minister, I am extremely concerned about the decision at municipal and regional level, which reduces the profiled classes at the school for the academic year 2018/2019. Thus it is mutilated, with the classes in the high school stage being reduced from three to one compared to the previous school year. This will lead to the abolition of vocational high school education at the secondary school. "School with 200 years of history and traditions. It has started high school education throughout the Vratsa region. By separating classes from him were created Language and Mathematical School in the city. With the profiles of the Biology and History and Geography, the high school prepares children from all over Vratsa region for students at Sofia University. Kliment Ohridski, Veliko Tarnovo University "St. Valentine's Day. Cyril and Methodius and a number of other renowned higher education institutions in the country and abroad. Secondary school "Study school" "Study of different specialties" who then return with their work and professionalism assist in the development of Vratsa region. With the upcoming reforms, however, high school with two centuries of history will become a primary school. In this regard, I ask you to answer me: what requires the upcoming reforms at the Secondary School of Botev, as a result of which the high school will become a primary school, and why are the high school classes reduced from three to one compared to the previous school year? Secondly, what are the options for the decision to be reconsidered in the interest of quality education for children? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u151	Thank you, Mr. Netsov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u152	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Mr. Netsov! The Ministry of Education and Science conducts a consistent policy regarding vocational and profiled education and has never opposed them. Unfavorable trends have been identified to reduce the number of students in Vratsa district, including Vratsa municipality. Unfavorable for the region are also the growing processes of emigration abroad and the country's larger cities. The proposals for a state-acceptance plan in individual schools are related to the number of students graduating from primary education, the strategies, forecasts, programs and plans for the development of the municipality and the district. Vratsa Municipality's vision is for the priority development of vocational education and meeting the needs of local business with the necessary personnel. The proposals made to reduce the profiled classes are the result that in the first place, the number of schools on the territory of the municipality is 20, dominated by secondary schools. The number of primary education graduates in the academic year 2017/2018 is 579 students. The possible number of classes for the municipality of Vratsa at a balanced reception for the academic year 2018/2019 is between 23 and 26 classes, taking into account the fact that students from neighbouring municipalities are also applying for students from Mezdra, Krivodol and others, but there is also a reverse turnover to larger cities. For the 2017/2018 academic year, the number of classes from 1st to 12th grade in schools in the territory of Vratsa Municipality is 343, and after 7th grade there are 108 classes, they are only 48. A proposal was made for all secondary schools in the municipality of Vratsa to be given one class, to the profiled high schools in four classes, and to two professional high schools in four, and to one two classes. The reduction of the profiled classes applies only to the secondary school of...................................................................................................................................................................... Balancing is aimed at improving the quality of training.. Both profiled and vocational education. The terms and procedures for proposing, coordinating and validating the state plan-acceptance at regional and national level suggest dialogue and consensus on the needs of personnel for the development of the area concerned. The discussions accompanying the procedures for proposing and coordinating the proposals for the state-acceptance plan at regional level are also an expression of this dialogue. We believe that the Head of the Regional Management of Education will find the necessary balance and will receive the support for the implementation of the state admission plan for the academic year 2018/2019 and by the Employment Committee of the District Council. By the way, I understood that yesterday there was a Commission meeting and this proposal was supported. There is no doubt that it is a matter of professional responsibility that I am speaking at national level..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Of course, this must be consistent with the possibility of smooth restructuring and the possibility of a normal functioning of individual schools, including financial and local and regional business needs. We also need to take into account the opinion that is localized. We must encourage the debate at local level and expect the necessary consensus to be reached there. With regard to Vratsa municipality, we had a lot of conversations. After all, the differences remained up to one class at the secondary school.................................................................................................... I wouldn't say that's such a big difference. The Ministry's mechanism in this case is to reconcile the acceptance plan. We haven't done that yet. I admire the efforts of the municipality and the regional administration to make these changes, but at the same time, and as we have always done, we have now called on them to make maximum efforts to discuss this reception. We keep talking. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u153	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Netsov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u154	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Minister, I am not fully satisfied with your answer. I see that you are trying to achieve a balanced approach to the reception, especially at the Middle School.....................................but I do not know if you have given a folder in which there are hundreds of thousands of signatures from willing parents of students to keep the necessary... My appeal is to at least have another class, because that is what people in Vratsa and Vratsa region really want. I think I also said in Vratsa that when a family with their children decide to study at a school and if there is no profile, for example, let's not do another analysis, if there is no such education in this town, they will go to Montana, they will go to Sofia. They will find a way to train their child wherever they choose. In this way they will not stop, for example, from going to another school, from learning, I have nothing against a tailor or chef, but when the family has decided to have their child in that school, it will find a way to be where it should be. Thank you. Mr. Secretary, here's the file.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u155	Thank you, Mr. Netsov. Mr. Secretary, would you like to use the backrest? No. The next question to Minister Valchev is from the MP Petar Petrov concerning problems with the merger of educational institutions in Sliven. Here you are, Mr. Petrov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u156	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! My question to you is up-to-date, although, meanwhile, the mayor of Sliven withdrew the proposal for restructuring schools, which in some cases is a merger, in some cases is a reduction of classes and so on, which led to the most massive protests against the mayor in the country, with the most participants. According to my personal conviction, he had no fault at all for the fact that the Regional Education Management, which is under your protection, offered him such a thoughtless, reckless proposal for restructuring schools. Of course, as a Member of the National Assembly of the European Union, I will support everything you do, Mr. Minister, because you are the first minister after three regular ministers who responds to my personal impressions of a man who is finally determined to conduct the reform of our education. Before I finally ask the question, I want to tell you that Sliven is in a difficult demographic problem, which mostly feels in the southern part of it, where we have a big, completely gypsy school. There's another one, and there's others with a predominantly gypsy population, and there's nothing wrong with that. I myself was in the first grade with 16 gypsies and 15 Bulgarians in the same class. And so far I have gypsies friends. I would like to say to you that, on my observations, the Regional Education Management I have been living in Sliven since 1979 and, so to speak, I have an idea of what this is about, but I am not sure whether the Director of the Regional Educational Administration has stepped foot in the Gypsy neighborhood. My question is: will you order the Regional Education Administration to withdraw its proposal, which stirred the spirits in the city. Sliven?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u157	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u158	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, the changes in the school network are a projection of demographic changes in our country. The Ministry of Education and Science observes the implementation of the principle of equal access to quality education for all students in the country. In this regard, the lists of protected and district schools shall be updated annually, the transport of students to the schools in which they are trained shall be ensured. In the present case, tensions have been created in the municipality of Sliven concerning the implementation of art. Art. 16 and art. 17 of Ordinance No 10 on the organisation of activities in school education, given the gradual provision of a full-time education organisation in schools. A competent authority for decision-making on changes to the municipal school network is the Municipal Council as a body of local self-government and not the Regional Management of Education in Sliven. On the basis of art. 310, para. 1 of the Law on pre-school and school education the Minister of Education and Science opens, changes and closes municipal schools on a written proposal of the funding body and an opinion from the respective Regional Education Management after an inspection. The proposal for optimization of the school network in Sliven was postponed by the Municipal Council, as you mentioned. There is a working group formed with representatives of education and all interested parties, which will discuss the proposal widely and will do the necessary analysis. The Ministry of Education and Science, as I told you, the mechanism of tied competence, in this case the municipality or the funding body, generally proposes changes in the school network. The Ministry of Education and Science may accept or reject them, but not propose. Of course, we have the right to final judgment, we have the ultimate responsibility. We did not intervene at an earlier stage in evaluating this proposal, because in my opinion, we must stimulate the initiative and the debates at the local level. There is no way to find a good solution, which is a balance of many interests, a balance of policies, if you want, if we do not stimulate this debate at local level and the Ministry of Education and Science has spoken at the beginning and thus crossed the discussions. I've given my colleagues, I've familiarized myself with the analysis that we did in parallel at the Ministry, as the proposals are numerous. I dare say that one part of them is completely justified, another part is more disciplined. I hope that further discussions will draw closer to the right decision. The fact is that we have the potential in a number of municipalities to reach a more even distribution of the number of people depending on the educational infrastructure. There are schools where we have vacancies and a building fund, in others we have a shortage, and this implies restructuring in view of the objectives of providing a full-time organisation of the school day, the introduction of a single regime or at least a reduction in the number of schools that are in two-fold mode. As you mentioned, in many places, desegregation, merger policies are also needed, and Sliven is a typical example in this regard. My appeal to the Regional Education Management was specifically to discuss with all stakeholders and to show sensitivity, sensitivity to the opinions of all the schools concerned. Clearly, when a school moves or unites, it provokes negative reactions in part of the school community. At the same time, I was also a witness when schools who expressed a negative view that they had been moved, then from the distance of time they thanked for such a decision. I'm not saying that in this case we have this hypothesis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dear Mr. Petrov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u160	Thank you for your answer, Minister. Nevertheless, I insist on my own, namely that in the case of Sliven we do not have a solution tabled by the municipality, we do not have a prior discussion of this decision. There are complaints from school directors and deputy directors about the authoritarian leadership imposed in the Sliven Regional Management of Education. I am also at a retirement age, but the head of such a government, which retires, cannot direct the future of education in a city like Sliven, which is very difficult. I think you should send in your proxy who may have to make the right decisions and be able to make the right decisions because there really is no democracy there, there is a fear that the chief, who is now, is intimidating not to mention his name. I think we should leave with a program specifically for Sliven to remove the segregation that is extremely dangerous there. I would suggest that the best students from the Gypsies should be sent to the other schools in order to get the Bulgarians used to it gradually, that the Gypsies are not only dirty and simple, that among them there are absolutely normal citizens like them, with whom they should be accustomed. Otherwise, as it has gone, in the area in which this big school is located, no more houses can be sold. Nobody wants to buy a place there, and a lot of them are already empty. This is the beginning of the problems. I hope you're intruding. Once again, there must be a Commissioner from the Ministry, because with this Head of the Regional Education Administration no democratic decisions will be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-09.u161	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Secretary, thank you. Honourable Members, with this the issues of today's parliamentary control have ended. I thank Minister Valchev for his participation today. The next regular plenary session shall be on 14 February 2018 at 9.00. We're adjourned.
