ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Please register. Cancel registration, no quorum. Next registration in 10 minutes. Discovered at 9:14 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u2	There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that it be included in the weekly Programme for the work of the National Assembly: Projects of decisions on changes to Standing Committees. The importer is Iskren Veselinov on 10 October 2018, and I propose to make this point fourth for today's plenary session. Please, voting mode. Vote 139 MPs: 131 against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. We continue with the first point for today: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR VEROISITIONS. Report of the Committee on Religions and Human Rights. Please, Mr. Velchev, introduce us to the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u3	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! ♪ I can't believe on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-34, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova and Mustafa Karadayi on 4 May 2018, and a Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Religions, No 854-01-35, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 9 May 2018. At a regular meeting held on 4 October 2018, the Committee on Religions and Human Rights as a item first on the agenda discussed the Draft for Amendment and Supplement to the Religions Act, No 854-01-34, submitted by the People's Representatives Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Nino and Mustafa Karadayi on 4 May 2018; and as a point second "Project for Amendment and Supplement to the Religions Act," No 854-01-35, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 9 May 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Education and Science: Mrs. Tanya Mihailova Deputy Minister; by the Ministry of Finance: Iliana Vladeva Head of Department at the Department of State Expenditures and Science; by the Ministry of Justice: Lyubomir Talev, Director of the Department of Legal Affairs; by the Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church: Varna and Veliko Preslavski Metropolitan John, Nevrokopski Mytropolit Seraphim, Vidinski Metropolitan Daniel, Melnik Bishop Gerassim, Secretary-General of the Holy Synod, Maria Koseva and Radomir Cola. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Religions submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova and Mustafa Karadayi was presented by the MP Yordan Tsonev. The Bill proposes a new model of religious funding, according to which a state subsidy is granted to religions to which not less than one per cent of the country's population belongs based on the results of the self-determination of the last census. The state subsidy will be spent aimed at covering the costs of the religion for the remuneration of staff (hospital servants and employees of religious institutions) as well as for the implementation of other activities described in the Law of Education, Social, Construction and Maintenance of Prayer homes and others. In the Law, the amount of the subsidy is determined by the financing model of the political parties, with the maximum subsidy amount being 15 million. lv. in faith, and the salary of a priest is equal to the salary of a teacher. Mr. Tsonev stressed that the religions that meet this criterion, according to the last 2012 census, are the Eastern Orthodox and Muslim religions. The rest of the religions will continue to receive a subsidy under the current order through the State Budget Act through the Directorate of the Council of Ministers. It has been noted that the Bill requires adjustments in respect of the control of financial resources to make it clear that it does not concern the own revenues of religious institutions, but only public funds granted by the State. As a technical omission of importers, Mr. Tsonev pointed out the intended authorisation regime regarding the participation of priests from abroad in sermons in the country and should be notified. The other important issues to be resolved and refined in the bill between the first and second votes are related to national security, financing from abroad, to the priests of the religions that are foreign citizens, to donations, to spiritual schools, to the functioning and financing of the dioceses of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church abroad. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-35, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 9 May 2018, was presented by the MPs Iskren Veselinov and Yordan Yordanov. According to the importers, both laws are a response to the same desire to stop the foreign influence on some Bulgarian religions, which is a threat to our country's national security and hindering radicalism as a global phenomenon that has its manifestations in Bulgaria. It has been noted that in this regard the presented bill is more comprehensive and there are more proposals, some of which have raised a lot of debates. There was a hope that in the forthcoming additional dialogue the sought balance would be achieved. In addition to the changes in funding, registration, training in secondary and higher spiritual schools and administrative sanctions, an important part of the bill are the proposals related to the additional funding of religious education in schools, as well as the possibility of carrying out educational activities of faiths established by the Ministry of Education and Science. The importers indicated that it is necessary to form a working group in which representatives of the various political forces and faiths and to come up with integrated joint proposals under the Bill in order to be able to hold broad public discussions between the first and second votes. On the drafts were received opinions from the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the Muslim Confession, the United Evangelical Church, the Catholic Church, the Eparchical Council of the Armenian Apostolic Orthodox Church and the Orthodox Organization. In their opinions, ministries and religions give their recommendations for amendments to the bills. Varna and Veliko Preslav Metropolitan John presented the opinion of the Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church on both laws. He noted that the drafts concern the fundamentality of religion in Bulgaria and their relations with the state and put out the objections of the Holy Synod against: the full control over the finances of religion; the violation of the anonymity of donation; the limitation in the amount of subsidy that should be determined as previously described under the State Budget Act; the increase in the powers of the Directorate of the Faithful; the notion of religious radicalism The Holy Synod of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church considers it necessary and supports the formation of a working group on the bills by committing to broadcast its representatives. The representatives of the Muslim confessional said that their opinion in most part overlaps with the opinion of the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. They paid attention to the proposed editing of art. 33 of the Law on Religions, which eliminates the legal basis for the existence of the Supreme Muslim Institute, which is necessary for the preparation of the priests of the confessional in Bulgaria. It was noted that the order provided for in the Law for the opening of a higher school under the Law on Higher Education is causing a collision and represents an impossible task of confession. The deputy Mufti Birali stressed that the National Council of Religious Communities in Bulgaria is absolutely opposed to putting religions under question mark that they are a problem for national security, as in the new history of Bulgaria, after democratic changes there is no example of such religious extremism, and on the contrary all religions work for the good and building of the value system of society. The representative of the Catholic Church Father Petko Valov said that proposals concerning foreign ministers seriously disturb the religion. The Catholic Church is supranational and has employees from all over the world. In our country about 100 hiemonas and nuns preach in Bulgarian and a return to old times would be a bad sign. The problems concerning the legalization of diplomas for higher theological education of priests, issued by authoritative foreign universities, financing and aid from abroad, on which religion relies, the need to introduce a more reasonable criterion for the registration of religion in view of the large number of registered religions in Bulgaria. The representatives of the United Evangelical Church noted synchronization in the opinions of faiths and emphasized on the proposed criterion numbers according to the data from the last census, which directly affects religion, as it is also a threshold for the opening of spiritual schools. Lawyer Viktor Kostov of the Law Protection Group "Freedom for everyone" expressed disagreement with the two laws as threatening the constitutional order in the country and democratic values. During the discussion took part the MPs Krasimir Velchev, Pavel Shopov and Vasil Antonov. The MPs and representatives of the religions united around the need to establish a working group with the participation of representatives of the main faiths, which between the first and second votes to specify the two laws so as to achieve full consensus on the proposed amendments and additions to the Religions Act. Following the debates held, the Commission on Religions and Human Rights shall: - with 9 votes in favour, without the opposition, and 5 votes in abstention, he proposed to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-34, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova and Mustafa Karadayi on 4 May 2018; - with 10 votes in favour and 4 votes in abstention, the National Assembly proposes to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-35, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 9 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u4	Thank you, dear Mr. Velchev. The report of the Committee on Education and Science follows. Here you go, Mrs. Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u5	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-34, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Cornelia Petrova Ninova and Mustafa Sali Karadyu on 4 May 2018, and a Bill on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Religions, No 854-01-35, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 9 May 2018. At its extraordinary meeting held on 5 October 2018, the Committee on Education and Science discussed the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-34, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Cornelia Petrova Ninova and Mustafa Sali Karadayi on 4 May 2018, as well as the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Religions, No 854-01-35, submitted by Iskren Vasilev and a group of MPs on 9 May 2018. A procedural proposal was made by the Parliamentary Representative Veska Nencheva to postpone the meeting, which after a vote with a result of 2 votes for the vote and 7 votes against the vote was not accepted. The meeting was attended by Tanya Mihailova Deputy Minister of Education and Science; representatives of the Chief Mufti of the Muslim Confession in Bulgaria: Murat Pinkov Deputy Chief Mufti, Adnan Djam is the Chief Jurissult, and Asan Imamov is the lawyer of the Muslim Confession. Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-34, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Cornelia Petrova Ninova and Mustafa Sali Karadayih, was presented by the MP Yordan Tsonev. He pointed out that the main objectives of the bill are to establish rules for funding religious institutions, as well as rules for preventing the possibility of interference of foreign organizations in the activities of Bulgarian religious communities. The funding of religion, which has less than 1% of the country's population based on the results of the last census, remains in the current order. Mr. Tsonev clarified that the Financial Control Mechanism provided for in the Draft Law refers to the state subsidy of religious institutions, which should be used to pay the remuneration of priests and employees in religious institutions. The bill lays down rules to eliminate the possibility of abuse of the religious rights of individuals and their use against national security and public order in the country. The Law also provides that religion can open spiritual schools under the terms and conditions of the Law on pre-school and school education, as well as the possibility to open higher schools under the conditions and under the Law on higher education. Mr. Tsonev stressed that after the adoption of the first vote, there was a commitment to establish a working group with the participation of all interested parties and committees to refine the texts. On behalf of the importers, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-35, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs, was presented by the MP Yordan Yordanov. He noted that the proposed amendments and additions are several groups. The main objective of the proposals is to arrange measures to counter religious radicalisation and politicisation of religion. A detailed description of the arrangements for the registration of religious communities has been proposed. Another group of additions that the Project contains are related to the financing of faiths. Mr. Yordanov noted that the Law also provides rules for the implementation of educational activities by religions, which should comply with the Law on pre-school and school education and the Law on higher education. On the presented bills in the Committee on Education and Science, opinions were received from the Ministry of Education and Science, from the Chief Mufti, from the Catholic Church and from the United Evangelical Churches. The opinion of the Ministry of Education and Science was presented by Deputy Minister Tanya Mihaylova. She noted that the proposed amendments and additions should be refined in accordance with the Pre-school and School Education Act and the Higher Education Act. In the discussion of the bills were included representatives of the Main Mufti, who expressed concerns about the proposed rules for the higher schools of religion to be opened under the Law on Higher Education, as they say these rules will limit the activities of the Higher Islamic Institute. Mr. Yordan Tsonev replied that it is possible to discuss other options in this regard. National Representative Milena Damyanova stressed once again that the proposed texts will be refined in a working group with broad participation. After the discussion was concluded and the Committee on Education and Science held a vote: - with 12 votes for the Council, without the opposition and the abstentions, propose to the National Assembly to adopt the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854 01 34, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Cornelia Petrova Ninova and Mustafa Sali Karadayi on 4 May 2018, and - with 10 votes "for", without the opposite...................... and 2 votes.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u6	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zaharieva. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs follows. Here you are, Mrs. Atanasova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u7	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-34, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Cornelia Petrova Ninova and Mustafa Sali Karadayi on 4 May 2018, and the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Religions, No 854-01-35, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 9 May 2018. At its meeting held on 3 October 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-34, submitted by Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov, Cornelia Petrova Ninova and Mustafa Sali Karadaiy on 4 May 2018, and a Bill submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov. The meeting was attended by: from the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, Metropolitan Gabriel Lovchanski, Metropolitan John Varna and Veliko Preslavski, Metropolitan Antonius West and Middle European, Metropolitan Seraphim Nevrokopski, Metropolitan Daniel Vidinski and Associate Professor Dr. Maria Köseva. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-34, was presented by Commission President Danail Kirilov, who stated that it aims to create a guarantee for the religious freedoms of persons, to prevent the possibility of interference of foreign countries, institutions and persons in the affairs and activities of Bulgarian religious communities, as well as to eliminate the possibility of abuse of these rights and their use against the national security of the country, public order, national health and morals, rights and freedoms of citizens. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that the Law governs the possibility of participation of religious communities in the Republic of Bulgaria in the public life of the country by submitting opinions on draft laws and administrative acts; a legal opportunity is created to ensure the retribution of the labor of the priests; the provision of targeted donations and the creation of spiritual schools is regulated. He added that the Bill creates detailed rules for funding religious institutions in order to ensure transparency about sources and ways of financing religious religions and prevent the possibility of using religious institutions in the Republic of Bulgaria to carry out activities aimed at the legal order established in the country. The bill amending and supplementing the Law on Religions submitted by Iskren Veselinov was presented by the National Representative Christian Mitev, who pointed out that it contains several groups of additions aimed at improving the legal framework on religion. Mr. Mitev noted that the first group of proposals contained definitions of religious radicalism and politization of religion and added that it is proposed to establish a ban on religious communities and institutions to create, distribute and use literature that preach religious radicalism or ideas that oppose Bulgarian citizens on religious grounds. A restriction is proposed for the participation of the governing bodies of religious communities and institutions in the leadership of political parties. The draft law introduces requirements for persons who perform worship in the territory of the country, offering a differentiated regime depending on citizenship. Another group of additions regulates the order and manner of registration of religious communities as legal entities, as well as the grounds for their termination. Rules on the financing of faiths and spiritual schools shall be proposed and the presentation to the Court of Auditors of annual financial statements shall also be provided. The last group of proposals are related to the rules for carrying out educational activities in spiritual schools, as well as the requirements for places for public worship. On the presented drafts were received opinions from the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Education and Science, the Ministry of Finance, the Holy Synod, the Chief Mufti, the Catholic Church, the Eparchical Council of the Armenian Apostolic Orthodox Church, the United Evangelical Churches, the Freedom for Each............................................................. Metropolitan Gabriel Lovchanski and Mr. Adnan Jamdazov presented the opinions of the Holy Synod and the Chief Mufti on the occasion of the bills under consideration to amend and supplement the Religions Act. In the discussion of the drafts took part the MPs Yordan Tsonev, Hristian Mitev, Danail Kirilov, Desislava Atanasova and Hamid Hamid. Mr. Tsonev noted that the aim of the Law, submitted by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova and Mustafa Karadayi, is the establishment of financial stability of religion and the protection of the country's state interest and national security. He added that the state will only carry out financial control over the government subsidies received and spent by faiths, and said it would support the Bill, with texts being refined between first and second readings. Mr. Kirilov said he would support both laws, adding that the texts should be refined by finding the balance between the interests of society and the independence of religion. He pointed out that the mechanism of subsidising faiths aims at transparency, as envisaged in the financing of political parties and NGOs. Ms. Atanasova pointed out that in the current Parliament the Law on Religion is the only topic on which both government and opposition are united and stressed the need to seek the balance between the interests of the state and the autonomy of religious communities and institutions. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs: - with 13 votes for............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ - with 7 votes "for" and 3 votes "abstained" proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Religions, No 854 01 35, submitted by Iskren Vasilev Veselinov and a group of MPs on 9 May 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u8	Thank you, dear Mrs. Atanasova. An importer's opinion? Mr. Tsonev, please come in for the first bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u9	Thank you, Madam President. On behalf of the importers, very briefly, as the reports of the three committees detailed the objectives of the bill, both the reasons and the problems to be resolved if adopted at first reading. Of course, the main objective of the Bill is to ensure funding, financial stability and independence of the main religions in the country. In accordance with the Constitution and the objectives of the Bill, it is proposed that the introduction of a ban on religious communities and institutions receive funding from foreign countries and persons for the remuneration of priests and servants in religious institutions. This is in connection with the proposal to be financed with a fixed subsidy of religion, which has declared more than 1% belonging, more than 1% of Bulgarian citizens. Regarding the proposed amendments and additions to Chapter Four, Property and Finance and the Religions Act, this part of the proposals are in two guidelines. First, detailed rules on the financing of religious institutions and the carrying out of strict control by the state in order to comply with the limits that this funding is envisaged for. I purposely read this paragraph because in their motives, importers explicitly stress that it is about rules and controls on this funding, and not about the means that religion receives in other possible ways of sponsorship, donations, religious activities. Concerns that had faiths, if the motives had been well read, would have seen that importers did not provide for such control over their own funds. The second direction is the introduction of a ban on foreign financing from other countries and foreign persons in the cases expressly governed by law. This is primarily aimed at transparency in sources and ways of financing religious religions. One of the main problems of the Bill regarding the preservation of freedom and independence of religion is right here. The working group, which will be drawn up together with representatives of the main religions, will have to work mainly in this direction to preserve the anonymity of donations, sources of funding, but at the same time to have sufficient transparency in view of the national security of the country. The Final Provisions of the Law amend and supplement the Law on Higher Education and the Law on Pre-school and School Education, and provide for the order for funding of spiritual schools from the state budget. I would like to remind you here that the Bill allows the basic faiths that meet the funding requirements of more than 1% have the right to open higher education institutions, of course, under the Law on Higher Education, which is also a plus for them, because only on this path will they be able to give educational and qualification degrees, and there is no other order in the country in which they can do so, and there will be academic growth of the faculty. This particularly concerns the Higher Islamic Institute, which does not have this categorization, does not have these powers, and this is a problem that has been repeatedly posed by representatives of the Muslim religion, and quite rightly so. To a large extent it also concerns national security, as everyone in the country, including the Muslim religion, is interested in preparing the training staff for religious preachers to become in Bulgaria, in a well-organized or several higher education institutions. And in this direction, there is something to work between first and second readings. I hope this is how I was able to present the reasons for the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u10	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsonev. For the second bill, the motives will be presented by Mr. Veselinov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u11	Madam President, honourable Members! This is perhaps one of the most important bills we are looking at in this mandate, as it concerns a very special and delicate area in public relations. However, such a reform must be implemented, as we believe that very responsible must be addressed to the problems of national security in this area. The bill I present is an initiative of the Deputy Prime Minister of Security Mr. Krasimir Karakachanov, who on 19 October 2017 started a series of consultations with the security services, with the Ministry of Education and Science, with the Directorate of the Ministry of Finance, with the aim of carrying out three important tasks before politics in Bulgaria. The first of them is to prevent the threat of radicalisation of Bulgarian religions, of course, we are mainly talking about Muslim religion. I have read many opinions claiming that there are no signs of radicalisation. On the contrary, we have a case on radical Islam. We have even sentenced to first instance in this regard and only certain omissions in our criminal law call into question the final sentences. So this threat of radicalisation is one of the main ones before Bulgarian national security and it must find its place as solutions in the Religions Act. The second important threat is that of politicizing religion, because we know how a political party has been parasited over Muslim religion for many years and we believe that the relationship between politicians and religion should be legitimately terminated. Our other important task is the dependence of the Muslim religion by Turkey and that this financial dependence must be terminated. At the same time, we firmly believe that not only the Muslim, but also the Christian, Orthodox faith, the traditional for our country, must receive serious financial support so that it can develop its activities normally, to have more spirituality in the educational process, including the possibility of financing extra-school programmes, of course approved by the Ministry of Education, which will contribute to the development of future Bulgarian generations. What are the main accents in the Bill? First of all, we give a definition of what it is - religious radicalism - and what it is - politicalisation of religion - and, of course, these definitions may be controversial, but we believe that we have made the most of them to cover all possible threats to national security. In fact, we are talking about two faces of the same phenomenon, as religious radicalism is actually a kind of politicization of religion and its transformation from a purely spiritual institution to a force that aggressively desires to change our society based on certain religious postulates. The complex of measures against this religious radicalisation and politicisation includes the explicit ban on religion to have international contacts with such organizations that carry out such activities and spread such ideology, as well as to exercise self-control over the activities of their preachers and their ministers. We extend, of course, the measures by which administratively these processes can be controlled and accordingly sanctioned, and we introduce restrictions in the governing bodies of religious communities to be members of political parties. Donations from abroad are part of these efforts, as we have witnessed cases of funding from sources abroad by Bulgarian representatives of faiths related to certain commitments of these religions and rather to these preachers for a certain type of radicalism and accordingly bringing radicalism into their congregation. This is, of course, a discussion issue, but we do not have to declare and therefore introduce any authorisation regime for all donations.. we are talking about those with a source abroad, and we are asking the question of donations from legal entities, which are not already a matter of internal conviction and some moral act, as they are clearly accounting. We introduce certain requirements for those who perform worship in the country's territory, and this is first of all the requirement for education. Bulgarian citizens must align their education to Bulgarian if it is completed abroad. These are procedures described in the pre-school and school education and higher education laws. By separating a serious financial resource for priests' salaries, it is natural for the state to have the commitment that those who receive these salaries have the appropriate qualifications. With regard to foreigners, the project proposes that they participate in worship or perform worship rituals according to the practice of the relevant religious community, and for their participation in sermons, recruitment activities, various campaigns to do so in coordination with the Religious Directorate. This is also the regime for all foreign spiritual persons, who are notable to the Department of Religion, so that it is clear who is carrying out such religious activity on the territory of the country. We are very serious about the religious registration system, and here we have the full support of the Holy Synod in this part of the Head, because we can say that we are champions of number of faiths and we think that there should be a slightly more serious order in their registration. We put in place rules for worship in and outside the buildings where they are carried out and, first of all, we introduce a requirement for them to be carried out in places that are suitable for this in order to ensure the safety of the believers themselves and the possibility of monitoring these objects. We introduce a requirement that the sermons, not the worship and rituals themselves, should be in Bulgarian, as we believe that this address to the congregation should be understandable to everyone. We are introducing new powers of the Department of Religion. We also resolve the issue of funding, albeit in a slightly different way than colleagues with the other bill, because we, in case of a lack of funding for the overall activity of religion, have laid down the principle of distribution in proportion to the number of believers who have declared their belonging to the respective creed of the last census. Here we also create the corresponding opportunities for financing religious education in schools and beyond, of course, under the control of the Ministry of Education. Last but not least, we also comment on the status of the priests, who should be at a high level as people responsible for the spirituality of the Bulgarian nation. I return to the beginning of my speech that this is a serious, long-thinking bill, which aims not to solve a problem, but to solve a series of problems and to rearrange a part of public relations in this area so that they are, firstly, adequate for the time, secondly, to be in favor of the faiths themselves and, thirdly, to be in favour of national security and unity of the nation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Veselinov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Will there be speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u13	Madam President, honourable Members! I will make a brief comment on the bill submitted by BSP, GERB and DPS. The main objective of the Bill is clear. It is far more obvious, where not so much comment is made on this is the opposition or opposition to radical forms of religion, of radicalism in some religions that are present in Bulgaria, or of corresponding sects or churches that have flocked over the past 30 years. However, there are texts, so I take the attitude that must be changed between first and second readings. This is what the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, the Holy Synod, was talking about. There are many opinions of other religions, I am talking about traditional religions in Bulgaria, which are from hundreds of years on Bulgarian territory, which have no problem with legality. Just two examples I'll give you to see what this is about. That's the essence of the bill. According to art. 21 Although we had a slight discussion with Mr. Tsonev earlier, a restriction on granting a state subsidy for religion is introduced. He says the following: the state subsidy is granted only to religion, to which it belongs not less than one per cent of the country's population, which has so defined itself at the last census. This is a restrictive condition, although in the motives of the importers it is written in the reasoning that the financing of the other religions remains in the old order, so according to the article it means that only the Bulgarian Orthodox Church, because we are talking about 1%, that is, they should have believers perhaps about 70. 75 thousand.. only Orthodox Christians and Muslims in Bulgaria are so. It has to be clear! By this logic there are traditional creeds and therefore I took the floor that would be left without state support. For example, Bulgarian Armenians are about 30 thousand people. You know, the Armenian Apostolic Church has been in Bulgaria perhaps for hundreds of years, and since the last 100 years they have temples in the largest cities. They are extremely loyal to the state, the Armenian community is extremely integrated, and they respect the laws of the state because of such a proposal they will be left without support. The second thing that absolutely concerns other religions. It is introduced the requirement that priests and ministers of religion can only be Bulgarian citizens, as foreign citizens can be priests only after the permission of the Department of Religions. Let us say that it can be accepted, but sacred foreign citizens can participate in worship only with local representatives of the respective religion. If this remains so in the final version, I must tell you that the Armenian churches in Bulgaria will be closed. Why? The Armenian Apostolic Church does not have a spiritual school in Bulgaria, as well as in Romania and Ukraine, and therefore their Catholic Church, or Catholic Church of all Armenians in Yerevan, sends their priests to serve in Bulgaria, in all countries, perhaps only in Russia have such a spiritual school. This requirement means that there is no one in these churches to serve, that is to say, refined. It is good that there will be perhaps a maximum period between first and second reading for proposals, it is good that there will be a working group where representatives of all parliamentary groups will be involved, I hope, as will most religions. What I am commenting on, the latter, by the way, will strike at how I should put it, and the Catholic Church. Many places in the Catholic churches in Bulgaria serve foreign citizens. For example, the church in Malko Tarnovo serves Poles for the same reason. We must carefully sift the dry from the raw! By trying to counteract the preaching of radicalism or radical Islam, of various other sects, I do not know how many of you know, but the religions registered in Bulgaria at the moment are 177, and indeed the traditional religions in Bulgaria are four or five, to make sure that we achieve our goals, but not to oppose, not to prevent traditional religions in Bulgaria that respect the laws and are loyal to their homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u14	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u15	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Today we are commenting on two proposals to supplement the Religious Law. This is purely chronologically a Law which was passed at the end of 2002 promulgated and in fact acted since 2003. It is a constitutional law that is fundamental to religion in the country. This is the Law, which, by general assessment, not only by our assessment, but also by the European countries with which we have had contact... and not only by them, is a good Law. Once again, I would like to remind you that with the operation of this law, all religions serve their services. At the time of the act of this law was overcome and the division in the Bulgarian Orthodox Church was overcome. Today, in fact, the two draft laws of the one of us are the result of the Advisory Council of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria, General Rumen Radev, on which an agreement has been reached between all the political powers, executive and legislative powers, to make these changes concerning the white fields in the Religion Act, in order, firstly, to overcome some weaknesses that have not been included so far in the Law and, on the other hand, to strengthen funding and illuminate it, especially what comes from the outside. The Law on Religions is, in fact, a seventh proposal for change, with six of them, the latter being 2015, but they were more chambery, smaller, but we have to be very careful with what is being proposed now, which we are proposing because they affect five or six basic positions under the Religions Act. As we know, very often the road to hell is paved with very good intentions, with flowers and roses. We, as importers of this bill, will support it at first reading, but cannot fail to notice that, apart from the executive authority, from the various ministries, the Law is not well accepted by the various religions, mostly by the Orthodox religion, and not only by it. Most of the remarks are from him, so in the expert group, which was agreed at the meeting of the Prime Minister in the Holy Synod, and the meeting that we had yesterday with colleagues, a group of MPs, in Synod, we will try all these proposals, which we must frankly say, are on the verge of the Law, overcome them and find a good wording. Between first and second reading we will take an active expert participation, but in the adoption of the Law at second reading we will not support wordings that are outside the framework of the Law and are not accepted by individual religions. Once again, for the finale: today we will support both laws because both correspond to each other, have both the good sides and the other, but we must be very careful in the work between the adoption of the Second Reading Act and the work in the panel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u16	Thank you, Mr. Antonov. Any lines to Mr. Antonov's statement? I can't see. Any other statements on the bill? Here you go, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u17	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups that were co-founders of the bill, which enabled us to fulfil a commitment made to the Advisory Council with President Radev. Here, of course, I would like to say that in this debate, which was supposed to be led in the relevant committees, the BSP colleagues were absent, although they were collaborators, along with their chairman in the face of Cornelia Ninova. It is impressive that there is also interpretation of the Law in a different way, but what has been achieved as consensus in order to present the reasons and the bill itself has given us the opportunity to open a discussion that is absent from the real parliamentary discussion since 1990. Many are the governments, many are the parliamentary majorities who have commented on the topic of religion, but no one has found political will to provide the necessary state resources to finance the faiths in Bulgaria and thus limit the possibility of other countries' external influence on religion in our country. At the moment, our country is taking an extremely important step because we all know that the currently changing security environment across Europe has led to a serious change in legislation in each Member State related to religion and the way in which the respective religions are financed. What is being given as an opportunity at the moment is to have one maximum that is not exceeded by 15 million. BGN, but it also enables those religions below 1% to maintain the current order and the Religious Directorate to have the appropriate sanction for the provision of this financial resource, as at present. It is extremely important to know that the differences that have been made public between the Bulgarian Orthodox Church and the importers of the draft laws, because the United Patriarchs have their own Bill, I can say that at the meeting attended some of the MPs who are co-owners of GERB, the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and the United Patriarchs were with their Law. Unfortunately, representatives of the Bulgarian Socialist Party were absent. I want to reassure them that the commitment we made to the Bulgarian Orthodox Church is that the working group, which will be established, will have a maximum duration of 21 days, so that all the different opinions can be heard. And looking at the Bill in the Committee on Religions will be when this consensus is reached, so that absolutely any possibility of someone speculating or creating tensions between religion and society is dropped. I would like to thank all of the parliamentary groups who were actively involved in the debates that were held in the relevant committees. Here I would like to call on my colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Colleagues, and so far, you have had a real opportunity to participate actively in the work on the Bill which was signed by your President Mrs. Cornelia Ninova. Unfortunately, in all the committees you either did not vote or if you voted, you abstained. I hope that what you have done today as a request that you will support the Bill at first reading is a good step, because in this way it will not be possible to create the feeling that there is an internal contradiction in the Bulgarian Socialist Party between the Chair of the Parliamentary Group Mrs Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs participating in the relevant committees in the Bulgarian Parliament. Colleagues, take an active part in the debate! Let us create this calmness that will ensure that the state has made its commitment so that it can provide the necessary funding for religion in the country and avoid external influence, and this is extremely important, especially, I repeat, for the changing security environment, both in the Member States of the European Union, as well as the Western Balkans, the Middle East and all that is currently a potential threat to the security of the whole of Europe. I am convinced that the Bill will find its quick application and will also be able with the help of the Finance Ministry, which gave a positive opinion on the possibility of putting these funds into the 2019 Project budget, with which we will respond to a desire for what, unfortunately for the past 28 years, has not been a political will to happen. I thank all Members of the National Assembly who participate will continue to participate and will support the final adoption of the Religion Act. I am convinced that all that has taken place as concerns both from the Catholic community and other smaller religions, I can assure you that in the conversations between colleagues who are actively involved in this process, it has also come to the conclusion that between first and second readings, there will be an opportunity for the Religious Directorate to have a notification regime for all these spiritual servants who are from other countries who need to be for smaller faiths here, and the Armenian, as you have said, and the Catholic community, and of course, every other community. Thank you, colleagues. I hope that the Bill at first reading, with a serious parliamentary support, will enable us to show that we are united in solving a problem that has not been solved for over 28 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Line, Mr. Antonov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u19	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I am increasingly worried about the Law of Religion, after Mr. Tsvetanov so reassured us about the meeting they held with the Patriarch in the Holy Synod. Moreover, immediately after the meeting, a group of MPs from the Religious Committee had a meeting with the four Metropolitans who took part in the Religious Committee. Indeed, the position they have stated, and it is not only their position, it is also the position of other religions, is very disturbing. These concerns were raised in yesterday's meeting. We need to sharpen the attention, yours and ours, in this direction between first and second readings. I agree with you here that the consensus under the Law is very important because what we have today in both laws, in many of them, we had prepared it in 2013 and, to a large extent, what is written and debated today is borrowed from our law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u20	Eee!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u21	That's right, here, you appreciated it, and I see you're welcoming it. Today we have the consensus that was reached at the Advisory Council with President Rumen Radev. In conclusion, I would like on behalf of the parliamentary group of the Bulgarian Socialist Party to welcome the Bulgarian Patriarch Neofit with his coming 73th anniversary and wish him health and still wise and confident to lead the Bulgarian Orthodox Church. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u22	Thank you, dear Mr. Antonov. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Second line? I can't see. Will there be a hole, Mr. Tsvetanov? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u23	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Antonov, thank you for your support in plenary today. I regret that your President is absent from today's sitting when such an extremely important Bill is being viewed. Because there's nothing more important to me than meeting the expectations of religion in our country. And when the MPs have their parliamentary commitment, they are elected to be MPs by such key laws to be absent from plenary, this means that we do not actually respect our voters, we do not respect our employers who have chosen us to be in the Bulgarian Parliament. But maybe this is a decision that you make and you make your respective policies. The only thing I would like to address as an appeal to the people who will actively participate in the expert group - let us also address the Presidency - to send a representative of their own, because so far they are not participating in the debate in any way. I think it would be nice to send a letter calling for part of the Administration, or those who believe that they can be experts from the Presidency, to be included, so that we can actually put together those words that you said, Mr. Antonov, and the words that I said about the consensus of the Advisory Council with the President. I hope that with their participation, we will not spoil the consensus that we are currently declaring. I am convinced that with today's vote and with the vote of representatives from the Bulgarian Socialist Party we will achieve something that is key and important for the Bulgarian religion in Bulgaria. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Karadaye.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u25	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! It is clear to all of us that the religious institutions and communities in the Republic of Bulgaria are autonomous entities of Bulgarian citizens and that the state does not interfere in their religious activities, but protects them and assists them as Bulgarian legal entities and organizations of Bulgarian citizens. The Bill provides for greater commitment of religious communities to the public life of the country and expression of opinions on draft legislative and administrative acts. In our view, this will improve the conditions and the environment of dialogue and strengthen confidence between the religious communities and the state authorities in the country. The proposals will ensure the necessary transparency in sources and ways of financing religious confessions. The control role of the state is also strengthened by providing for strict regulatory accountability. In this regard, the consensus reached, as we see, the different parliamentary groups at different times have taken part in this process in a different way. In our view, the envisaged working group between first and second readings will contribute to improving the proposed texts in the Bill. On behalf of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, I call on: this bill not to be an instrument of opposition, but to be that which can unite us! We hope that the working group will do its job very quickly and soon the bill will be adopted at second reading. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u26	Thank you, Mr. Karadaye. Any lines to Mr. Karadaye's statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Colleagues, we're going to vote. Please take your seats. The Quaestors, please invite the MPs to the Chamber. Colleagues, I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854 01 34, tabled by the MPs Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Cornelia Ninova and Mustafa Karadayi on 4 May 2018. Vote 138 MPs: for 136, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on Religions, No 854-01-35, submitted by the National Representative Iskren Veselinov and a group of MPs on 9 May 2018. They voted 132 MPs: 106 against 1, abstention 25. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we continue with the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE AND DEVELOPMENT, No 802 01 25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. Adopted in the first vote on 19 September 2018. Who will present us with the Second Reading Report? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u27	Madam President, honourable Members! First, I would like to make a proposal for a procedure on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly............................................................................................ 2 et c. 3 on the agenda of the Deputy Minister of Culture Mr. Rumen Dimitrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u28	Thank you. There's been a procedural proposal for admission to the court. Please, voting mode. 86 MPs voted: 85, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to invite the admitted person into the hall. Go on!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u29	The Council of Ministers submitted a second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, No 802-01-25, adopted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018 and adopted a first vote on 19 September 2018. Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u30	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put the text of the importer to the vote on the name of the Law. Vote 85 MPs: 84 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u31	Under § 1, there is a proposal from the National Representative Nona Yotova, made in accordance with Article 1. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1: ................................................................................... In The competition is broadcast on record on the website of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u32	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer in the version of the Commission for § 1. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u33	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is The competition is broadcast on record on the website of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u34	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 2 in the version of the Commission. They voted 84 MPs: 83 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u35	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3: .................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. A new para is being created. 5. The competition is broadcast on record on the website of the Ministry of Culture. 2. So far, the Al. 5 becomes para. 6................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u36	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the version of § 3 on the Commission report. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u37	Under § 4, there is a proposal from the National Representative Nona Yotova, made in accordance with Article 4. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26, para. The second sentence is If the Minister of Culture is unable to attend an extraordinary meeting of the Management Board, he shall be replaced by an Deputy Minister authorised by him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u38	Are there any statements regarding the text as to who is replacing the Minister of Culture? There are no speeches. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 4. Vote 74 MPs: for 74, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u39	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u40	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the subdivision. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u41	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 5: .................................................................................. In the Law on the Film Industry (prom., SG No. ...), in art. 7, para. The second sentence is created: The competition is broadcast on record on the website of the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u42	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting § 5 in the version of the Commission. They voted 73 MPs: for 73, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u43	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u44	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the last one, § 6, on the Commission's report. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion has been passed, and so has the entire Law. That's what we finished working on point two for today. Let's continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE RESEARCH. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Who will present the Commission report? Here you go, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u45	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I will present to you: The Report for the Second Voting on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Cultural Heritage Act No 802-01-24, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 June 2018 and adopted at the first vote on 12 September 2018. The Law on Cultural Heritage is amended and supplemented by the Law on Cultural Heritage. The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u46	Are there any statements on the name of the Law? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for the name of the Law. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u47	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u48	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 1. Vote 76 MPs: for 76, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u49	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u50	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 2. Vote 75 MPs: 74 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u51	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u52	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 3. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u53	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 4 and § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u54	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the import texts of § 4 and § 5. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u55	Under § 6 there is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Sawateva, made in accordance with Article 6. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6: ........................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30, para. The following 1. Points 1 and 2 are repealed. 2. point 3 is amended as follows: "3." a certificate of judicial registration if there is no registration in the Register of non-profit legal entities; 3. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." documents certifying the availability of the requirements under art. 25, para. 1, t. 1 "4" as the documents referred to in art. 25, para. 1, t. 1 shall be checked by service.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u56	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the wording of § 6 in the version of the Commission. Vote 80 MPs: for 80, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u57	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 7. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 8. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 9. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u58	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the importer's texts for paragraphs 7, 8, 9 and 10. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u59	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 11. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 12. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u60	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the texts of the importer for paragraphs 11, 12, 13 and 14. Vote 79 MPs: for 79, against and abstention there is no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u61	Under § 15 there is a proposal from the National Representative Diana Sawateva, made in accordance with Article 15. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15: ...... 15.................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 2 after the words "Specialized Board of Appeal" is added "for the preservation of real cultural values". 2. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The NIKN's claims under Article 3 (3) shall be made in accordance with Article 4 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. 58, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 62, para. Art. 1, art. 64, para. 1 shall be included on the agenda for consideration by the Council under para. 2 within one month of their entry into the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u62	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's version of § 15. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u63	Proposal by the National Representative Diana Savateva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 66 para. 2 is
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u64	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 16. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u65	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 16, which shall become § 17. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 17, which shall become § 18. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 18 which shall become § 19.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u66	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote § 16, which shall become § 17; § 17, which shall become § 18; and § 18 in accordance with the text of the importer which shall become § 19. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u67	Under § 19 there is a proposal from the National Representative Toma Bikov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 72, para. 2 words for Sofia-City and Sofia-district "The National Archaeological Institute with Museum at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences" are being held.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u68	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for § 19, which becomes § 20. Vote 87 MPs: 86 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u69	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u70	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 20, which becomes § 21. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u71	Proposal by the National Representative Toma Bikov, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version for § 21, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 79 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 3 is amended as follows: The territorial scope is determined by the boundaries and area of the real estate cultural value and its security area. The protection zone shall be defined as ensuring, where necessary, more effective territorial protection of the real-estate cultural value and shall cover the immediate territory around the property, important visual perspectives and other areas or elements of supporting importance for its cultural and historical importance and its conservation. No security zone shall be defined only in exceptional cases, reasons for which shall be indicated in the ex ante assessment under art. 56, t. 3 or in the final assessment under art. 61, para. 1 of the Cultural Heritage Act. For the protection of single real cultural values located within the territorial scope of group real estate, no protection zones are defined, but the provisions for the conservation of the group real estate are applied. 2. A new para is being created. 5. The provisions for the conservation of real cultural values shall be determined on the basis of the results of the preliminary, the final, assessment, the analysis of the impact of interventions carried out and their degree of threat from anthropogenic and environmental factors. The conservation provisions shall specify eligible interventions in real cultural values, the structure or conditions for the use of territories within their borders and security zones in order to ensure their full protection and presentation. 3. Previously on AMC's... 5 " 7" became respectively. .... 8............................................................. 4. So far, the Al. 8 becomes a new para. 9.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u72	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for § 21, which becomes § 22. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u73	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 22 which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u74	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 22, which becomes § 23. Vote 89 MPs: 88 against 1, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u75	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 23, which shall become § 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u76	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 23, which becomes § 24. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u77	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 24, which shall become § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u78	Are there any statements under § 24? I won't. We vote § 24 by importer, which becomes § 25. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u79	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall remain § 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u80	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 25, which becomes § 26. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u81	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 26, which shall become § 27.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u82	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 26, which becomes § 27. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u83	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 27, which shall become § 28.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u84	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 27, which becomes § 28. Vote 81 MPs: 81, against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u85	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 28, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u86	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote § 28, which becomes § 29. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u87	Under § 29, there is a proposal from the National Representative Toma Bikov, made in accordance with Article 29. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 29, which shall become § 30: 30. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 151 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 2 t. 1 is amended as follows: "1." a copy of a contract with a Bulgarian cultural and/or scientific institute or university, the activities of which are related to the preservation of the archaeological heritage; 2. In para. 3 t. 2 is amended as follows: "2." a copy of a contract with a Bulgarian cultural and/or scientific institute or university, the activities of which are related to the preservation of the archaeological heritage;
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u88	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the wording of § 29, which shall become § 30. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u89	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 30, which shall become § 31.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u90	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 30, which becomes § 31. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u91	Under § 31, there is a proposal from the National Representative Emilia Milkova, made in accordance with Article 31. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 31, which shall become § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 160, para. 3 all the way after the words the Minister of Culture is
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u92	Are there any statements on the just read text? I won't. We are going to vote on the version of § 31, which becomes § 32. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u93	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 32, which shall become § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u94	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 32, which becomes § 33. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u95	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 33, which shall become § 34.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u96	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 33 which shall become § 34. They voted 86 MPs: for 86, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u97	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 34, which shall become § 35.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u98	Statements? I can't see. We vote on the text of the importer for § 34, which becomes § 35. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 35, which shall become § 36.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u100	Statements? I won't. We vote on the proposal for a text of § 35, which becomes § 36. They voted 84 MPs: for 84, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u101	Proposal by the National Representative Emilia Milkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 37: ...... 37........................................................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 196 para. 2 is
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u102	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal to create a new § 37. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u103	Paragraph 37................................................................................. 196 para. Two is The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 36, which shall become § 38.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u104	Statements? I won't. We vote on the text of the importer for § 36, which becomes § 38. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u105	Proposal by the National Representative Emilia Milkova, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 39: .............................................................................. In § 29 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Cultural Heritage (prom., SG No. 16 of 2016) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words they may apply for authorisation under art. 150, para. The words "to be entered in the register referred to in Article 1" shall be added. 150, para. The words "at least twice' have been the heads of a field archaeological survey and are replaced by the words "to be proved', including by 10 permissions issued for field archaeological studies. 2. The creation of para. 2: For persons under para. 1 who did not participate in a field archaeological survey as deputy heads but were heads of field archaeological studies, apply for entry in the register under art. 150, para. 2. such circumstances shall be reflected in the application referred to in Article 2. 151, para. 1 and checked by service.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u106	Statements? I won't. We are voting for the creation of a new § 39. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u107	'Concluding provisions'. The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer on the name of the division and proposes the following version:
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u108	Statements by the name of the division? I won't. We vote on the name of the division. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u109	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 37, which is reflected in its systematic place as § 39, suggesting that § 37 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u110	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to reject § 37. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u111	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 38, which shall become § 40.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u112	Statements? I won't. We are voting on the last paragraph - the Commission's proposal for § 38, which becomes § 40. They voted 83 MPs: for 83, against and abstention there is no. The motion has been passed and the entire Law has been passed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u113	Dear colleagues, thank you. I am glad that we are all voting for the European Parliament when it comes to Bulgarian culture. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u114	And thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. We move to the next item on the agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING COMMITMENTS. Here you are, Mr. Vesselinoff, to present the solutions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u115	Madam President, honourable Members! The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. Art. 3 and Art. 23, para. 4 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He released Alexander Mairov Siddi as a member of the Energy Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u116	Statements? I won't. I'm putting this decision to the vote just now. Vote 84 MPs: for 83, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please read the other decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u117	The National Assembly on the grounds of art. 79, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 21, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED He elected Alexander Mairov Siddi as a member of the Labour, Social and Demographic Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-10-11.u118	Thank you, Mr. Vesselinoff. Statements? I won't. We are voting on the proposal for a new member of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy. 86 MPs voted: 83, none, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, this was the last item on the agenda for today. Following the parliamentary control announcement for 12 October 2018, Friday: 1. The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov will answer a question from the MP Anton Kutev. 2. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer two questions from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova, Lalo Kirilov and Nikolay Tsonkov; and Dimitar Danchev and Milko Nedyalkov. 3. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer a question from MP Petar Vitanov. 4. The Minister of Culture Boel Banov will answer three questions from the MPs Kristina Sidorova two questions; and Krum Zarkov. 5. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer seven questions from the MPs Dzhevdet Chakarov two questions; Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; Stefan Burgeev; Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; Nikolai Ivanov and Tsvetan Topchiev; and Burhan A Base. 6. Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer four questions from the MPs Georgi Gokov; Slavcho Velkov; Ilian Timchev, Georgi Yordanov and Anelia Klisarova two questions. Regular meeting tomorrow at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
