ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum, I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Dear colleagues, on the basis of art. 53, para. 5 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, I suggest that the following additional item be included in our weekly work programme of the National Assembly: Draft decision to extend the period of validity of the Temporary Commission to examine received signals from citizens for the training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of motor vehicle driving licence. Importers: Stanislav Ivanov, Andon Donchev and Atanas Stoyanov on 13 September 2018, and I propose to make this point. 2 for today's plenary session 14 September 2018 Please, voting mode. Vote 153 MPs: 142, against 4, abstention 7. The motion is accepted. Moving on to the first item of today's agenda: PROJECTS OF DECISIONS FOR CHANGES IN STANDING DELEGATIONS. Importer Dragomir Stoynev on 12 September 2018 Point one for Friday. Colleagues of the BSP, I pay attention when preparing these proposals be more precise because there are technical errors, for the second time already happening, so my request is to take a closer look. "Dear Madam President, On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Delegation to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please provide the draft decision for examination and voting in accordance with the established order. Dragomir Stoynev - Vice-President of the parliamentary group. Project with editorial and technical amendments of Project for Decision No 854-02-47, submitted on 12 September 2018 by the National Representative Dragomir Stoynev: Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Petar Boykov Vitanov as a replacement representative in the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. 2. He elected Yavor Rumenov Bojankov as a replacement representative in the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Please, voting mode. Vote 159 MPs: 150, against 3, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. And the second proposal: On the grounds of Article 1, paragraph 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision on a change in the composition of the Delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Please provide the draft decision for consideration and voting on the relevant agenda. Again Mr. Stoinev's suggestion: Project with editorial and technical amendments of Project Decision No 854-02-48, submitted on 12 September 2018 by the National Representative Dragomir Stoinev. Project! DECISION on a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 38 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED 1. Releases Spas Yanev Panchev as a member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. 2. He elected Petar Boykov Vitanov as a member of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Please, voting mode. Vote 156 MPs: 150, against 4, abstention 2. Suggestion accepted. Colleagues, we're moving on to point two for today: PROJECT OF A DECISION TO APPROVE THE ACTION OF THE TEMPORARY COMMISSION WITH REGARD TO THE INVESTIGATION OF PROCEEDERS FROM ENTIRE FOR LEARNING AND TESTING OF CANDIDATES FOR ACCOMMODITY MANAGEMENT OF A MOTOR VEHICLE. Mr. Ivanov to read the reasons for the extension of the Commission and the draft decision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u2	Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 86, para. 1 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 88, para. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly I submit a draft decision to extend the period of validity of the Temporary Commission for examining received signals from citizens for the training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of motor vehicle driving licence [[noise]] With the following motives...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u3	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u4	The need to extend the term of the Temporary Commission by 10 days has received a signal from Mrs. Iliana Benovska to the President of the Forty-fourth National Assembly and a necessary check of the data and facts in the signal, as well as the hearing of other institutions. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u5	The draft decision read, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u6	Project! DECISION extending the period of validity of the Time Commission for examining received signals from citizens for the training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of a motor vehicle driving licence The National Assembly on the basis of art. 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly HAS DECIDED Continues the period of validity of the Commission to examine the signals received by citizens for the training and examinations of applicants for the acquisition of a driving licence until 28 September 2018, including.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u7	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Please vote on the Draft Decision which Mr. Ivanov has just read about extending the duration of the Temporary Commission. Vote 157 MPs: 149, against 2, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Colleagues, we continue with: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR ROADS. Exporters: Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs on 12 July 2018, adopted at first vote on 26 July 2018. Please, colleagues from the Regional Commission. Here you go, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u8	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! "Transitional and final provisions." The Commission supports the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u9	Statements? I can't see. I shall put the name of the division of the Commission Report to the vote. They voted 106 MPs: for 105, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u10	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. The Council of Ministers shall establish, in accordance with this law, the implementing acts within two months of the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u11	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 16, which shall become § 17, on the Commission's report. Vote 117 MPs: 116, against no, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u12	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Administration (prom., SG No. (c) Paragraph 16 of the transitional and final provisions lays down para. 8. In the event of an increase in the number of staff of the Agency, the road infrastructure shall not apply in relation to the reorganization of the activities of the Central Administration of the Agency. The road infrastructure related to the definition of operating functions with the electronic system for collection of tolls under art. 10, para. 1 of the Roads Act, as well as in connection with the establishment of a service unit.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u13	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the version of § 17, which shall become § 18 of the Commission Report. They voted 133 MPs: 120, none, abstention 13. The motion is accepted. Mr. Nenkov, I'm sorry, but there's a statement on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u14	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the National Assembly, from this platform many congratulations have been heard to all possible creeds, with my great respect. Today it was my turn to make a wish to Orthodox Christians in Bulgaria. Happy Thanksgiving, everybody! Today is the Motion of the Holy Cross a great Christian holiday. I wish the whole Bulgarian people health, faith, sustainability in faith, strength, and to all of us colleagues, I wish common sense and popular activity! What is the subject of my declaration? We MPs looking into some of our kitchen problems sometimes miss the big events in the world. Lately we have been dealing with resignations of ministers, personal changes, who is who and so on, and we are missing some very serious movements in the European space that are trending -- not just something ephemeral, something from the day of the day. It's about the big clash between conservative and liberal vision. This clash has already taken a literal character of repression to individual countries. Is my old friend and political associate Georgi Markov here who knows best? It's about the case of Hungary. Firstly, I would like to congratulate the MEPs of GERB, who, to my pleasant surprise, did not support the sanctions against Hungary and voted against them, although part of the EPP took a position to punish Hungary. Hungary, honourable Members, is a case I have been talking about for years about this case, I am talking about the Orban case, an example for the Eastern European countries. Viktor Orban, head of Hungary, did things that set an example for other countries, including Bulgaria, how within the EU and NATO you can have a more flexible policy, have a better care for your own people. Orban has done so, including changes in the Constitution, so that he can protect Christian, traditional values, the marriage as it is tradition to stop the migrant wave from which Europe has gained another image, to make many improvements in the lives of Hungarians themselves, to improve their standard, to limit the influence in Hungary of organisations that aim to break up the national identity. However, these actions by Orban caused resistance in the Brussels higher circles. I do not want to get too involved in what the European Union is. As early as January 2008 of this tribune, I said, when we entered the Union, "Don't hurry with the champagne, there are pros, but there are big minuses." Currently, there are very serious currents in Western Europe to change the thinking of the political elites. Viktor Orbán was one of the first to show how to work in a country with our parameters, by size, by population, by historical fate, if you want, Hungary is close to Bulgaria, but immediately he was shown the stick of punishment: we will deprive you of the right to vote in the European Union as you violate democratic freedoms. What democratic freedoms? Well, for example, the well-known Soros organisations were given a restriction in Hungary to act and break the country's national identity, for which it should be congratulated. No, in Europe, there was an opinion that Hungary should be punished. In the vote in the European Parliament these days, when we were dealing with ministers here, it turned out that the Bulgarian representatives there were divided. We, the party of Ataka, do not have representatives in the European Parliament. We've had three, and I hope we achieve the same success in the upcoming elections. But I will stress again my congratulations to GERB is real, sincere, not hypocrisy, not courteous, not diplomacy, because I have seen different manifestations of GERB MPs. They are members of an EPP force, they are sometimes obliged to comply with the vision of this alliance. On the other hand, the representatives of the Left are members of the PES, the DPS of the Liberal Alliance. Europe has so far been divided into alliances that stood somehow very stable, invariably, as if they were giving a permanent picture of division in Europe. Alas, this is no longer the case, or perhaps fortunately it is not because these alliances no longer express public opinion. We see, in large, leading countries, France, Italy, Germany, public opinion changing in the direction of conservatism, in the direction of traditional values, in the direction of what they call even nationalism and it was a dirty word. And, oh, wonder imagine, a representative arrives not elsewhere, but from the White House, from the United States, from Steve Bannon, Special Envoy of President Trump. The man who made his elections came to Europe and said: I will make an anti-soros trust, an antisoros organisation, I will unite nationalists in Europe to protect the traditional values of European countries. We can't believe this is what a senior U.S. elite official said, because so far the United States has been leading a different policy. So, fellow Members, something in the world is changing. It is changing for the better, because so far globalism, which has been imposed, I would even say forcefully sometimes, has led to Europe starting to ask itself exactly what is it, a Christian Europe with cultural and traditional values for centuries, or is it just a field, a territory in which different ethnic communities meet? They do not integrate with each other, live divided, there is tension, there is a killing attack and there is already a threat to the European identity itself. These questions come before more Europeans, they ask them and express it through their political will. They voted so that already parties, which until recently were called nationalist or anti-systemic, began to have an advantage. There's nothing wrong with that, let's not be scared. I have been in direct politics and in parliament for 13 years, and I know that there have been attacks on me and the party that I set up as unsystemic. Is the time coming for the unsystemic views and parties in Europe? Let us think about this, and let us change along with world change. The two superpowers are currently headed by presidents who have conservative thinking. They're not neoliberal, they're not globalists. The two superpowers are now starting to influence Europe, so Europe is also changing. Let us be in class with these changes and let us continue this policy, which GERB representatives in the European Parliament have shown that they can also vote against the main current, which says: let us punish Hungary! Not punish Hungary, but encourage Hungary, that's what I'm saying. Not to impose sanctions, but to express our voice even more clearly. And in this regard, a news from the last hours a group of MPs from the National Assembly, colleagues from the party Volja, their initiative, and colleagues from the party Ataka, have signed a draft decision to instruct the Prime Minister to take a clear position against the sanctions against Hungary. In this way Bulgaria will show its face, which already builds the last year or two very clearly the face of a more sovereign state, not large, but a country that holds its dignity, which can also be stretched out on the main current in Europe when it sees that it is not right. Because if we do not struggle, if we do not resist this current, tomorrow we will be forced to, thank God, the Istanbul Convention was rejected, but was rejected with great effort and with one internal growth in political parties and same-sex marriages, and third and sixth and eighth sex, and so on. They'll break down national identities, cultural identities, Christian values. And to end with the wish of this beautiful, big, bright holiday to all Bulgarians to truly uphold our values, to defend our traditions because they have preserved us as a people. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Siderov. Moving on, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u16	Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. Paragraph 18 "A proposal from the National Representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 18, which becomes § 19: "Seriously, I'm The Road Infrastructure Agency is responsible for issuing annual road transport stickers with a total technically permissible mass of more than 3,5 tonnes since the entry into force of this Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u17	Statements, coworkers? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text read by the rapporteur. They voted 119 MPs: 99, none, abstention 20. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u18	Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 20: .................................................................................. By 15 August 2019, including road vehicles with a total technically permissible mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes shall pay the fee under art. 10, para. 1, t. 1's a wine charge. Depending on the term of the wine charges for these road vehicles, a monthly, weekly and daily bill of lading shall be issued.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u19	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 20, with a text according to the Commission proposal. They voted 127 MPs: 99, none, abstention 28. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u20	According to § 19 there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 19, which shall become § 21: .................................................................. Since the entry into force of this Act, paper wine stickers for all types of road vehicles are validised (perforated) when buying and have validity since the day of validation (perforation).
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u21	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the text of § 19, which shall become § 21. They voted 127 MPs: 98, none, abstention 29. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u22	Under § 20, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 20, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss From the entry into force of this Act, the annual wine fee paid for road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes shall apply until 15 August 2019 at the latest, including in the event that the conversion of paper into electronic wine with validity is claimed corresponding to that of the valid wine sticker purchased in accordance with the order laid down in § 25.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u23	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for a text of § 20, which shall become § 22. They voted 125 MPs: for 101, against none, abstention 24. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u24	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 21, which shall become § 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u25	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 21 which shall become § 23. They voted 126 MPs: 96, none, abstention 30. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u26	Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to create a new § 24: .................................................................................. Wine charges paid for annual wine stickers for road vehicles with a total technically permissible mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes, the validity of which expires after 15 August 2019 shall be subject to a proportionate refund for the unused period after 15 August 2019 by the Road Infrastructure Agency. This right may be exercised when submitting an application signed by the owner or authorised user of the road vehicle on a template for the proportional reimbursement of an unused period from a purchased annual bill at the relevant points of sale under art. 10, para. 14 or by electronic means, within 15 December 2018 until 15 December 2019, including at the same time as the application for the conversion of paper into electronic wine in accordance with § 25. The application shall indicate the registration number and category of the road vehicle concerned, the period of validity of the annual fault sticker and information on a bank account to be transferred to the relevant amount. An application shall be accompanied by a declaration on a model of authenticity of the circumstances declared by the owner or authorised user of the road vehicle. The submission of those documents may also be carried out by a person authorised by the owner or user of the road vehicle with a power of attorney with a notarization of the signature.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u27	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 24 with the wording of § 24 in accordance with the Commission proposal. They voted 124 MPs: 100, none, abstention 24. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u28	Under § 22, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal, which is reflected in its systematic position in § 23. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes that § 22 be rejected.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u29	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the text of § 22. They voted 126 MPs: 103, against 2, abstention 21. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u30	Under § 23, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission does not support the text of the importer and proposes the following version of § 23, which becomes § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss With effect from 31 January 2019, all types of paper wine stickers for all categories of road vehicles shall lose their validity. Owners or users of a road vehicle that purchased a paper-based fault sticker whose validity expires after 1 January 2019 should declare its conversion into an electronic wine card within 15 December 2018 until 31 January 2019 in order to maintain their right to use the paid road network until the initial validity period of the paper-based wine sticker expires. This right may be exercised when submitting an application signed by the owner or authorised user of the road vehicle on a model for the conversion of paper into an electronic tart with validity corresponding to that of the purchased paper bumper at the relevant points of sale under art. 10, para. 14 or electronically. The application shall provide information on the registration number and category of the road vehicle concerned and the period of validity of the paper blame sticker, and shall be annexed to it and signed by the owner or authorised user of the road vehicle a declaration in accordance with a model of authenticity of the declared circumstances. The submission of those documents may also be carried out by a person authorised by the owner or user of the road vehicle with a power of attorney with a notarization of the signature.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u31	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for a text of § 23, which shall become § 25. They voted 121 MPs: 99, none, abstention 22. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u32	Proposal by the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to create new paragraphs from § 26 to § 29: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The owner and user of the road vehicle shall not remove the part of the wine sticker applied to the glass of the road vehicle until the expiry date. § 27. As of 16 July 2019 the Road Infrastructure Agency is requesting the issue of monthly electronic road vehicles with a total technically permissible mass of more than 3,5 tonnes, and after 1 January 2019 no application for this category of road vehicles shall be allowed at the start date of validity of a monthly electronic ticket later than 16 July 2019. § 28. As of 9 August 2019, the Road Infrastructure Agency is requesting the issuance of weekly electronic road vehicles with a total technically permissible mass of more than 3,5 tonnes, and after 1 January 2019, no application for this category of road vehicles shall be made at the beginning of the period of validity of a weekly electronic ticket later than 9 August 2019. § 29. From 23,59 o'clock on 15 August 2019 Road Infrastructure Agency is not eligible for the issue of daily electronic road vehicles with a total technically permissible mass of more than 3,5 tonnes, and after 1 January 2019 no application for this category of road vehicles shall be made at the date of validity of a daily electronic ticket later than 15 August 2019.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u33	Are there any speeches? I won't. I put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create new paragraphs 26 to 29 including, with a text of the paragraphs proposed in accordance with the Commission's text. They voted 116 MPs: 96, none, abstention 20. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u34	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer for § 24 but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic place in § 33.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u35	Statements? I won't. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to reject the text of § 24 by importer. They voted 115 MPs: 100, none, abstention 15. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u36	Under § 25, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 30.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u37	Are there any speeches? I won't. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 25, which shall be supported by the Commission and shall become § 30. They voted 114 MPs: for 101, there are no abstentions 13. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u38	Under § 26, there is a proposal from the MP Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 26, which shall become § 31: ........................ 31...................................................... In the Public Procurement Act (prom., SG No. ...) in art. para 14 is created. 9. The Law shall not apply to contracts concluded by the Road Infrastructure Agency under art. 10, para. 14 and 15 of the Roads Act
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u39	Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the version proposed by the Commission for the wording of § 26, which shall become § 31. 110 MPs voted: 98 against 6, abstention 6. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u40	Honourable Members, we are moving on to the Additional Report. Proposal from the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Alexander Nenkov. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Dinev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission proposes to establish § 32: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In the Law on Road Transport (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) New para. are created. 2... In the case of vehicles of categories M2 and MH, Class B, Class II and Class III, the driving licence of categories Dl, D1E, D or DE shall be equipped with a mobile video surveillance device and with driver and passenger safety belts. (3) The requirement for safety belts under para. 2 does not apply to motor vehicles of categories M2 and MH, Class A and Class I for specialized carriage on routes of one-way length up to 30 km. (4) The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications shall determine the requirements for mobile video surveillance devices, the order of their use and the storage of the records thereof. (5) The line for safety-belt equipment of motor vehicles of categories M2 and MH, Class C, Class II and Class III for driving which requires a driving licence of categories Dl, D1E, D or DE which are not equipped in a factory with such vehicles shall be determined by the ordinance under art. 146, para. 1 of the Road Traffic Act. (b) the current para. 2 becomes para. 6 And in it the words are said. 3 and 4 are replaced by........................................................................................................... 7 and 8 c) the current para. 3 becomes para. 7); (d) the current para. 4 becomes para. 8 And in it the words are said. The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) No 540/2011 of 25 October 2011 laying down detailed rules for (e) the current para. 5 becomes para. 9 And in it the words are said. 3 and 4 and 4 shall be replaced by............................................................................................................ Seven and eight. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 in all words. 7b, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 7b, para. 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7d, para. 4 words / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / / 4. Article 3 is replaced by the following: 23d: Art. 23 years old. Specialised, occasional and own-account transports of children and/or students shall be carried out by motor vehicles of categories M2 and MH, Class B, Class II and Class III, and shall not be permitted to carry standing passengers. 5. Art. 1 (2) (a) and (b) and (c) 95a, 95b and 95c: Art. 95a. (1) Punishable with a fine 500 BGN. a driver who drives a motor vehicle under art. 7b, para. 2, which is not equipped with safety-belts. (2) Punishable with a fine 500 BGN. a driver who drives a motor vehicle under art. 7b, para. 2 which is not equipped with a mobile video surveillance device according to the requirements of the ordinance under art. 7b, para. 4 or the mobile video surveillance device shall not be used in accordance with the requirements of the ordinance under art. 76, para. 4. Art. 95b. It shall be punished with a fine or with a penalty of 3000 BGN, which: 1. order or allow the carriage of passengers by motor vehicle for which it is required to be equipped with safety-belts and it is not equipped or has not complied with the established order of its equipment; 2. order or allow the transport of passengers by motor vehicle for which it is required to be equipped with a mobile video surveillance device and it is not equipped or not complied with the established order for the use of the mobile video surveillance device. Art. 95c. It is punished with a fine or with a penalty of 1500 BGN. a carrier which does not comply with the requirements for the storage of the recordings of mobile video surveillance devices of motor vehicles. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 4 Words everywhere. 7b, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 7b, para. the following points are inserted after point 9 (Commission (b) in para. 6, p. 1 words.............................................................................. 7b, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) (c) in para. 7, p. 1 words.............................................................................. 7b, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 98a, para. 4 t. 2 all over the words. 7b, para. The following points are inserted after point (a) (i) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011: 7b, para. 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 106a, para. 1, t. The following point shall be inserted: (e) the carriage of passengers required to be equipped with safety-belts and not equipped or equipped with safety-belts in violation of the requirements of the regulation under art. 146, para. 1 of the Road Traffic Act. 9. In § 1 of the additional provisions, paragraph 1 shall be inserted. 55: It's 55. A mobile video surveillance device is a technical device that allows the vehicle to be filmed in front of the vehicle during traffic.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u41	Statements? Mr. Ivanov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u42	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I would like to introduce a little more clarification on the proposed new texts by myself and my colleague Alexander Nenkov. Dear colleagues, motor vehicles intended for the transport of passengers in Bulgaria are treated in two ways: in the Road Traffic Act there are the categories of drivers who are entitled to drive these motor vehicles and in the Road Transport Act, where the categories and type of vehicles themselves are treated. For this reason, we made an additional report and voted on texts to cover the provisions of the Road Traffic Act and the Road Transport Act, which concerns the type of vehicle. With regard to vehicles, there has been a lot of speculation about how many buses will be affected, I want to give you the following clarification. First, after 2006, all buses in the European Union must be equipped with belts according to a regulation. According to this regulation, after 2006 there are about 6 thousand buses in Bulgaria. Indeed, most are those who may be meant to have belts, but we do not yet know if they are, these are about 9,000 buses. What do I mean, we don't know? We don't know because of these 9000 buses there are about 3,000.3500 buses of public transport where there are standing. You know, it's not meant to be belts. About 2,500 000 buses were purchased by the Ministry of Education and Science in 2005, which are also equipped with belts, and they drop out. There are about 3,000 buses left, of which I would like to mention something very important. After 1999, a law is introduced in Germany, which says that all buses produced in Germany must be equipped with belts. So there will be another large part of these buses, because we know that the fleet in Bulgaria is mainly from Germany. This is regarding our first proposal in para. 2. With regard to devices that will mobilely record the environment of the road. This is also extremely important, because when we have a clear idea of what happened in front of the vehicle, the authorities of the traffic accident will be able to immediately see what was the situation and who was responsible. We're not talking about storing servers, not recording other places, just at the moment of a traffic accident, when the authorities come, they'll be able to see where the situation was and punish the guilty driver, if possible, of course. With regard to fines and sanctions. Fines are introduced for bus carriers, owners of companies that have not equipped the buses with belts for which they are required and have not equipped with video equipment for mobile video surveillance of the buses concerned. The Sanction is 3,000 BGN, but it is negligible compared to the consequences that can happen afterwards. With regard to drivers, there are also sanctions. Here I also want to say something very important: we have sanctions that are still in place. 50 BGN. for a passenger who didn't put his belt on. This is like an introduction to the proposals we made with my colleague Nenkov. Of course, I'll look forward to the debate and then I can re-enter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u43	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u44	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! Perhaps it would not have come to Mr. Ivanov telling us exactly what they had invented to put belts on buses, if this law had been viewed, first, where it belongs in the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications, and, second, if it had been seen at least two readings in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Self-Management. To colleagues who do not participate in this committee, I should tell them that after the Second Voting Act was adopted in the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government, at an extraordinary meeting yesterday or that day an Additional report with other texts was adopted, that is to say, we are looking at a Law which is read at one reading. Here Mr. Danail Kirilov as Chairman of the Legal Commission I would like to say yes and not whether the Rules of Procedure are respected as a line. If you answer that question, I'd be grateful, Mr. Kirilov. Now get to the point. The reason for this legislative initiative is the tragic accident of August 25th. [[GERB lines.]] At least that is what was announced after a meeting with the Prime Minister, I quote his words: "Go ahead, put on seat belts, because in the past Todor Zhivkov made us wear belts for three days. We put them on and no one was purring. We all did. Just to remind Mr. Borisov neither he was Todor Zhivkov nor the time was when he was. We are in a European country now, there are European regulations, there are European rules that need to be respected. You offer seat belts based on the driver's category.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u45	And the vehicle.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u46	Colleagues, or we say there should be safety belts on buses, and this thing is recorded in the Road Traffic Act, and this thing is monitored by the DMV when the buses are registered, or we don't write it in the Road Transport Act. Because we cannot, based on the driver's category, say what the vehicle should be. We say all buses should have belts. This is recorded in the Road Traffic Act and we do not allow registration of a bus without belts. It is simply not possible to register a bus without belts in Bulgaria. And we define the transportations for which this thing does not apply, for example, urban transport. We say, for public transport...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u47	Isn't that the norm?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u48	Mr. Lazarov, read the text because I will tell you what you will accept with the text you are currently taking, and I will be with a clear conscience that I have warned you. I mean, philosophy is wrong. We're not against seat belts. If you offer it where it's supposed to be and where it's supposed to be, we'll support you. An additional period will be given to carriers to change their buses, to optimize their transports. Because, honourable Members, there are small municipalities and you are representatives of them here, you know how many of them will be left without bus transport thanks to this amendment if it enters into force. It is technically impossible to place seat belts at all. I am prepared with Mr. Ivanov to wager our national representation that this will not happen and he knows it very well. In Bulgaria there are six laboratories that perform technical tests and none can test the bus. Any one of them may experience a belt, may test a bus seat, but none of them can perform a technical test on the entire bus as required by a manufacturer. We accept a text that is not 6 months, 60 months to give it a term of validity, it can't happen. It's just technically impossible. Understand it! It's like telling George Svilensky to fly into space tomorrow. I want to, but that's not gonna happen. You can't! Finally, I want to tell you about the mistake you're going to make if you're going to support it. Quoting the text: The demand for a vehicle, that is, we say that everyone should be. We agree with that. And we say in art. 7b, para. The requirements for safety-belts under para. 3 shall be as follows: 2 does not apply to motor vehicles of category M2 and M3, Class A and Class 1 in the case of specialized passenger transport. Do you know what that means?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u49	You forgot to say 20 miles.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u50	With a one-way length of up to 30 km. This is important to you, Mr. Ivanov, but you made the cuddle in the last word. This means that all buses M2, M3, Class A and Class 1 are the exception when carrying out specialized transport.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u51	Up to 30 kilometers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u52	Up to 30 kilometers. We go to the Car Transport Act and read what a specialized transport is, because laws have to talk to each other. The services of workers, employees and students under contract with a route defined by the customer and a timetable shall be carried out by means of specialised passenger transport. I ask: City transport in every city, including Sofia, should be belted after six months? Because public transport is not a specialized transport. He doesn't drive workers, employees and contract learners with the client. It is under contract an established route schedule. With this text you accept, after six months all new buses in Sofia and throughout Bulgaria must be with belts. That's why I told you, fellow Members, that you are confusing the philosophy of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u53	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u54	Mr. Ivanov, make a line for me to answer because colleagues don't catch our dialogue. Give me a line and I'll give you an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u55	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Here's a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Svilensky, we can really argue for a long time, but I don't think he'll understand our audience and it's not that important what we're going to say here with you, but right now I want to tell you something very important. Why are the belts in the Car Transport Act? Because the type of approval of the component parts of the buses is in the Car Transport Act. We therefore upgraded the Law and added the type of vehicles to the Additional Report. That was the purpose of the Additional Report. With regard to the other statement you made for public transport, these are buses that are class M1. We don't treat them at all. There's even a class 2 who has the right to have standing, but up to 30 km. That's why we put these 20 kilometers. The exception is up to 30 km. Everyone else has to be seatbelted. They don't have to have seat belts until 30 km. I hope you understand me well. With regard to specialist transport, I would like to say something extremely important, honourable Members. When we were working on this bill, we may have made a mistake. " The buses carrying students were not specifically mentioned. So we created a new art. 27 years, if memory serves, where we recorded that a specialized carriage of children and/or students is carried out by buses only and only by means of belts. There's no 30 kilometers, there's no exceptions. Students and children will be transported with belts. Everyone else up to 30 km has the right not to use belts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Next line? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u58	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Ivanov, I suggest that we do not underestimate our fellow MPs, they can understand what we are saying, no matter how complicated we explain it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u59	They'll understand, but we don't have to waste their time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u60	You did not answer the question how will the text be fulfilled as recorded? I'm quoting the text again.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u61	Up to 30 kilometers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u62	Colleagues, M2 and M3, this is the possibility of buses being given up to 20 seats, how many standing But it doesn't matter. It's in Class 1 and Class 2 and M2 and M3 categories. However, you say that I read the text and look at it: "Require for safety belts under para. 2 does not apply to motor vehicles of category M2 and M3, Class A and Class 1 So these categories, if they carry out another type of transport...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u63	With a one-way length of 30 km.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u64	Put the 30 kilometers down. All right, one-way length 30 kilometers. And I ask: if these buses carry a non-specialized transport, again up to 30 km long, do they have to be belted?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u65	No.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u66	So where does it say it's not? This is where you say you have to. Who understands this thing? You understand it with your advisors. That's why I'm telling you. Change it if you want, but it won't work. This will be appealed and you will not put seat belts on any bus of those you want, but you should put them in those who do not have and who should not have. There's nothing more I can do than warn you of the mistake you're about to make.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u67	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u68	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, we from the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and we will support this text with the only assumption that we will save lives. From then on, there is no motive for us to support this belt text. First of all, the idea of speed drive was to watch last week, which didn't happen. She's really looking at a reading on a committee that's none of her business. The colleagues of the Transport Commission, whose obligation is to take care of the Road Transport Act and the Road Traffic Act, did not really have any information about what was happening. I read on the move and see the lyrics. Yes, they will probably create problems in the application itself. Even more problems will create for the carriers. We leave them for a short period of time. We can't really say exactly how many buses we need to put on these belts and so-called video recorders. There's the other subject. Will there be a constructive change in the subject, how exactly and for what time will it happen, will it meet the technical requirements, will carriers fail until they do this thing? These are questions we are yet to see the answer to, and what will happen. Next moment. Until this ordinance comes out to determine these video recorders or in the additional text these video surveillance systems, do not you have to issue this regulation, to do and to see, aceba, who should meet this? I'm asking: my mobile phone system [[shows cell phone]] Is it a video surveillance system when I can install it, run it, and have a memory? Will the D.I.A. deny that I recorded the bus movement? When will this regulation come out to say that this is happening and who are responding, and there is no doubt that this is a lobbying text for a special video surveillance system? Don't let the doubt stand, Mr. Ivanov. I'm not saying it is. But we have to answer both things today. First of all, we're putting on belts with the idea of saving people's lives. There's no question about that. But we also need to respond to two major catastrophes, the one at Svoge, a huge tragedy, and the one on Trakiya highway, where there were also victims, and both buses were belted. Who actually performs prevention and who monitors whether they are placed? In this case, we are not talking about a lack of belts, we are talking about that they are not placed, we are talking about that we do not have the strategy or the way in which we create this culture of those who do. Here the drama is more like it. There were belts on both buses, including Svoge's, and Trakiya's, and many others. My fellow Members, I repeat, we will support this text with only one idea and the hope that we will save a human life. From then on, this practice must be revised and this practice, Mr. Ivanov, is not good because we did not save time for which it was announced before, but we will create more headaches in its realization. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u69	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. I'm closing the debate, moving on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create a new § 32 with a text proposed by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 99 MPs: 79, none, abstention 20. The offer is accepted. Please continue, Mr. Nenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u70	Proposal by the National Representative Alexander Nenkov and a group of MPs, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal by the MPs Stanislav Ivanov and Alexander Nenkov, which is generally supported by the Commission. Proposal by the National Representative Georgi Dinev, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is generally supported by the Commission. The Commission proposes to establish § 33: ................................................ The law shall enter into force on the day of its promulgation in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of: 1. par. 1, t. 1, § 3 and 16 which shall enter into force on 16 August 2019; 2. paragraph 2 which shall enter into force: (a) from 1 January 2019 In the case of road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass up to or equal to 3,5 tonnes, and (b) of 16 August 2019 In the case of road vehicles with a total technically permissible maximum mass exceeding 3,5 tonnes; 3. paragraph 32, which shall enter into force within 6 months of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union, with the exception of this. Article 1 (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 7b, para. 2 for mobile video surveillance devices and art. 7b, para. 4 t. 5 concerning Art. 95a, para. Art. 2, Art. 95b, t. Art. 2 and Art. 2 95c, which shall enter into force from 18 months after the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u71	Thank you, Mr. Nenkov. This is the last paragraph of the bill. You have the floor. Here you are, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I will try to sharpen the attention of my fellow Members that we are looking at some proposals for road transport in the Roads Act. In fact, this is another violation made by the National Assembly. Your sense of unpunishedness and violation of the laws of this House contributes to the overall political situation in the country today and therefore do not be angry. Do not be angry that you are wondering why some ministerial resignations are submitted without the ministers submitting them, and do not wonder why other candidates are giving up immediately. They give up because you, the MPs of GERB, are violating the laws of the Republic of Bulgaria. If this bill, which we are currently talking about and voting about, had passed at first reading, if these proposals were in those three laws you are preparing, Mr. Ivanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u73	That's not there.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u74	...from one year and something "The Law on Road Transport, the Law on Traffic and the Rules you are preparing, today I am convinced that at least 20 Members of the Transport Commission would be in class and would know what this is about. Colleagues, the colleague who proposed this text, my respects to him, so as not to offend him, I took the liberty of telling him an expression of a colleague of ours, because he, when he read it and then, when he closed it, saw that expression in him that he read the text as if he had written it by closing the text as if someone else had read it. You've brought us to this state, colleagues! The idea of seat belts is not the idea of the Svoge crash. The idea of fastening belts, but at the same time testing all vehicles constructively, is a distant idea. If we constructively violated the bus, the crash to the Bumblebee in Razgrad, if you looked, the van that had fallen, all the seats had fallen on top of each other, they were torn from the foundations. If you're going to do the extra holes right now, nothing that you're going to put on the seat belts, the seats will come to the driver if you break constructively. And the test will only make it three testing agencies and labs that have no right to do that. Then on what grounds, Mr. Ivanov, you say up to 30 km may not put the belts on? The distance between Madan and Smolyan is 30 km, and do you know what the gap is? Why would we in the Law give the man the opportunity not to put his belt on there? Nonsense, colleagues! With regret and with concern, we are telling you all this. And that's it? Look at the deadlines you set in connection with this thing happening. They are so short that there is no way for 9,000 buses to even be tested and looked at in this period.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u75	It's not 9,000, it's 1,000.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u76	Okay, it's not 9,000, 8999, is it? Colleagues, restraint and safe movement, and the creation of the conditions for safe travel in buses is in the laws and these laws are for settling public relations between society and us, not for settling your personal, such desires how and in what way to stand out and say that you have proposed something like a bill. Colleagues, we at the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, with concern for what is happening in the country, will take another step, we will support this bill with the clear awareness that this does not solve this problem because in both crashes, in all three accidents, buses were fitted with seat belts. God forbid one day Mr. Ivanov will remember that we have to put airbags on the buses. [[(Reply from the OP: If necessary for the safety. ") The President gives a signal that the time has expired.)]] Mr. Chairman, I'm done. I'm finishing these five minutes. I hope with these five minutes of speaking from this tribune that I have awakened your attention to the texts that we are adopting right now and our concern for everything that is happening on the roads of Bulgaria. Because if the prosecution is on the road to Svoge, it's also wrong. Everyone must also be responsible for the violation he has committed, but we are making laws that cannot be implemented.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u77	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u78	I apologize, Mr. Chairman, we have a proposal...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u79	That's already out of the regulation, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u80	In § 32, the text which enters into force within six months of the promulgation of the law in the Official Journal of the European Union, shall be
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u81	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. Is there a line? I won't. Here's your speech, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u82	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! First of all, I want to say something that might sound like a line to Mr. Ramadan Atalay, but that's not a line. Firstly, I thank the DPS Group for supporting the bill we have tabled. Mr. Atalay, at the beginning of my speech I mentioned that buses are 9000, but by removing all those purchased by the Ministry of Education and Science, which are urban transport and so on, which have been produced since 1999, German buses will remain no more than 1000 buses, which will have to be tested and approved. Regarding the previous speech, that is all I wanted to say. I apologize. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, § 32, the deadline is very short, the proposal of our parliamentary group is not to be six months, as regulations will have to be made to enter into force, this may take at least two months, and for this reason I propose that the deadline be not six months, but nine months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u83	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. Line, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u84	Mr. Ivanov, you continue to mislead your colleagues. Where did you get that number 1,000 buses?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u85	I explained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u86	The Deputy Minister of Transport two days ago at the Transport Commission said: five or six thousand. The Branch claims eight-twelve thousand. Where did you come up with 1,000 buses?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u87	I explained.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u88	You don't have statistics, you don't have data. The Agency itself said, from the Ministry itself explained that they do not have the data, that they are now collecting them, which is unacceptable not to know how many buses there are. You say here a thousand buses, you can say 100.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u89	We're on a deadline now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u90	About the deadline. What is this bargain, is it six months, 12 months, you nine months, I now offer seven, for example, or eight? Colleagues, the lyrics don't work! Sixty months give them a deadline, they won't work, and there won't be a bus to put on a belt. And tomorrow, don't give yourself, God, next catastrophe, it will come back on you, because you leave some impression in society that something happened and nothing happened. Let's make sure people put their seatbelts on, those buses that are morally obsolete get out of use and oblige all buses to register with belts, then when they get into the DMV for registration. This does not happen through the Road Traffic Act, but through the Road Traffic Act and through those three laws that are waiting for them... Mr. Tsvetanov, let me remind you that three laws on road traffic are still missing from the Office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u91	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Another line? You have the floor, Mr. Atalay.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u92	Thank you. Mr. Ivanov, it looks like we're on Capaloo. I don't know why the O.P. didn't come out to disprove, to bargain, should it be 12, should it be nine months? I'm sure you'll take 12 months, for the simple reason, it's a good thing you remembered that you took out Big Brothers and the video surveillance inside the bus. You've also put in, now there's a camera to film the road, to film the tracks on the highway, to film the holes on the roads, because this video surveillance you're going to be making people set up will also take time, and that nothing will end with this video surveillance... I said, what's your idea of video surveillance? You said: "See the road. " - What will the road observe? Watching the road what? The holes between Razgrad and Kubrat, the holes between the village of Konevo and Zebil? What will you observe and what will you use for? Colleagues, Regulation 146, which you propose, do you know what will be written and unwritten? We leave it in the hands of experts at the Ministry of Transport. I hope at least the experts find the relevance of all this crap we're taking today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u93	Thank you, dear Mr. Atalay. A line? You have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u94	Dear Mr. Ivanov, I have only heard from the lines here and Mr. Svilenski, but there are no proposals on this bill. I do not know, perhaps colleagues have been very actively involved in the Commission, but I have not heard any proposals. What I've heard: that's not gonna happen, that's not gonna happen. Do, do, so that you are not responsible for any further catastrophes. I didn't hear a single suggestion. Lozungi! Explain, please! That bill came through. Did the colleagues have any positive, positive suggestions, Mr. Ivanov? All they had were some negative statements.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u95	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. [[The National Representative Halil Letifov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Mr. Letifov, wait, please, so we can finish with Mr. Ivanov's backs in accordance with the regulations. Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Mr. Svilensky, where did I get these buses? I explained at the beginning of my statement that from 9,000 buses, about 3,000 buses are public transport...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u97	It's not 9,000, it's 18,000!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u98	About 2000. 2500. 3000 are buses purchased by the Ministry of Education, which are with belts. I explained that after 1999, a law entered Germany, which obliges all buses to be seatbelted. Since in Bulgaria the bus fleet is mainly German, for this reason we believe that we are not talking about more perhaps from an indicative number, of course, about 1000 buses, which need to be tested, but this will be seen further. It's not 9,000! Regarding Mr. Lazarov's line. Mr. Lazarov, this is exactly how there were no substantial proposals during the Commission meeting. I do not know why colleagues practiced why the Law was introduced through the Roads Act. Their main question was: how many buses will have to be refurbished? There wasn't a single proposal on their part. That's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u99	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Letifov, do you refuse in the manner of conduct? [[Reply from MP Halil Letifov.]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u100	Mr. Chairman, my procedure is the way it is. Just to remind your colleagues that neither the Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly nor the deadlines we set for the amendment of such important texts have actually been respected. Usually between the two readings we give three, four weeks each so that we can take a good look, including the experts and all other organisations that will be affected. Now we do it in two days, through another committee, through colleagues who are not on the committee. So to blame yourself for not doing anything is not very correct and it was your duty to say it, Mr. Chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u101	I get it. Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u102	There's no way, Mr. Chairman, I'm not going to take any attitude, since I'm following the subject closely. There's no way Mr. Lazarov could have accused me of not submitting an offer. Mr. Lazarov, on Friday afternoon you decided to insert your seat belts...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u103	Mr. Svilensky, to me, if it's the way you conduct yourself.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u104	...on Monday at 6 p.m., the deadline for proposals in the Roads Act expired, where there is no mention of this topic at all. If it was the Farm Food Act, that's probably where you'd put it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u105	Mr. Svilensky, pay attention to me, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u106	I understand I'm breaking the rules.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u107	Please don't break it, all the more so you're doing it fully consciously.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u108	Just to clarify to Mr. Ivanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u109	Yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u110	Thirty seconds in favor of the House. [[(Radio.) Noise and lines.)]] You're talking again about a thousand buses, starting to count out of nine thousand. There's 18,000 buses...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u111	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky, we're stopping here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u112	...and your account, if you apply it... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u113	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Mr. Atalay, you wanted the floor. Here you go. In the manner of conduct or procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u114	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Chairman. I'll try, but I probably won't keep it, so I'll turn to you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u115	Then I'm gonna ask you to get to the point, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u116	I'm addressing you, Mr. Chairman. Find a way to tell Mr. Lazarov that when the MP who stood on this stand explains how GERB violates the laws and outside the laws introduce after second reading amendments and additions...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u117	Excuse me, Mr. Atalay, but somehow I can't find myself here as the host of the meeting, so I'm asking you to stop.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u118	...to allow this MP to listen at least in the hall. Otherwise, I know he's a great expert, but right now Mr. Lazarov was wrong.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u119	Thank you, Mr. Atalay. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] You have the right. Here you go, Mr. Lazarov. [[Reply from the National Representative Dimitar Lazarov.]] Won't you take advantage? [[Noise and lines.]] It was quoted several times precisely and personally.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u120	Although in the manner of conduct which was essentially a statement, Mr President, I will not avail myself of the right to a personal explanation. I'm giving the conscience of my colleagues here who have been acquitted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u121	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. Colleagues, I suggest we get this debate over with. There are no other speeches. I close the debate and we continue with the vote. We have two proposals for editorial amendments to the wording of § 32. The first is the MP Ramadan Atalay, the second is the MP Stanislav Ivanov. I'll put them to the vote in the order of their entry. I put to the vote the proposal of the National Representative Ramadan Atalay for an editorial amendment in the text of § 32............................................................ to..................................................................................................................................................................................... They voted 102 MPs: 13 against 6, abstention 83. The offer is not accepted. The second proposal received by the MP Stanislav Ivanov again for the same text. This is § 33, which the Commission proposes to establish, but in the wording of § 32 of the Law, which proposes that the six-month period should be changed to a nine-month period. They voted 105 MPs: 80 against 1, abstention 24. The offer is accepted. I will now put to the vote the Commission's proposal to create § 33 with the editorial amendment adopted in the text which we have just voted on. They voted 102 MPs: 87, none against, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. This concludes the Law and the legislative part of today's meeting. We continue with parliamentary control at 11:00 a.m. I interrupt the session. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u122	Colleagues, we continue with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. One remark. When I have read the Decision on a change in the composition of the Permanent Delegation of the National Assembly to the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, I have admitted a lapsus Please note for the record a replacement representative. New questions concerning the period from 4 September 2018 to 13 September 2018. A question was received from the MP Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov, Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev to Temenuzhka Petkova, Minister of Energy, on the policy of the Ministry of Energy for transposition of European legislation. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 14 September 2018. Written answers by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov to a question by the MP Daniel Yordanov. Written answer from Culture Minister Boel Banov to two questions by the National Representative Stoyan Mirchev. Written answer from the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. Written by the Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Kristina Siderova. Written answer from the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov to a question from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev. A declaration on behalf of a group. Here you go, Mrs. Damyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Day of the beginning of the road to new knowledge, of new dreams and hopes, of the laying of new highlights of enlightenment in the young minds of Bulgaria "September seventeenth," beginning of the academic year 2018 - 2019, day of our future. Dear teachers, directors and social partners! Dear parents, dear grandparents! Dear associates of the mission called the education! Loved Bulgarian children, fellow MPs! There is no higher tribune than that of parliament, from which we can remember in a loud voice that the thirst for enlightenment is firmly woven into the Bulgarians and in Bulgaria that knowledge is what has led us and guides us in the path of our existence as a people, that the storms of time are subdued by the great minds of our nation to stay through the centuries. We remember Paisiyev's. Read and know, so that you are not mocked and reproached by other tribes and nations. We go with the Vasov's. I go with my grandmother, albeit weakly, to learn, good to succeed. We worship the teacher with love because in the genes of our nation it is written that knowledge makes us a people. That's why we smile with the originals, so we give flowers to the teachers, so we get excited with the first school bell and keep the first letter. Education is our unsubstantiated priority, for whose development we from GERB and the ruling majority have mobilised financial, institutional and public resources. Our goal is for every child and student to receive quality education and for each family to have a choice to provide their children with the best training, ensuring full support for kindergarten and school as institutions and teachers who are at the heart of the educational system. These are not declarative objectives, honourable Members, but specific legislative texts which have been adopted here in the National Assembly. Despite the difficulties, and sometimes and despite the resistance of the misunderstood or frightened status quo, our goal and path are to have highly educated young generations, raised as Bulgarians and as citizens of Europe and the world, generations who protect and develop Bulgaria based on knowledge and science. Our priorities in the new school year are: investing in teachers, the new financial resource for raising teachers' salaries is the way to raising their social and professional status; raising wages is part of our overall concept of high results for children and students, providing more opportunities for each of them to develop; the financial resources require better qualifications aimed at keeping successful professionals in the system, but also to attracting young teachers; education, as an integral part of the developed labour market, and the stable economy of the state. In the focus of our policies is the development of vocational education, the dual system, the career orientation of children in kindergartens, the direct participation of business in the whole process of education, dialogue between parents, school and business. In order to achieve these objectives, we insist on the adoption by the National Assembly during this parliamentary season of the two legislative initiatives submitted by the majority responsible for the implementation of the Law on the amendment and supplement of the Law on vocational education, which supports the introduction of dual education on a national scale, as well as the Law on the Supplement to the Law on Higher Education, with which prominent specialists from the practice receive the opportunity with a decision of the faculty council of the higher school to participate in the training of the new staff and of our young people. Digitalization of the educational process. This does not mean Internet and tablets, colleagues! This is the preparation of the digital skills needed for the future. This also means a better material base, and higher requirements and control of the entire training process. Every child has the right to study, but it is time to say that everyone needs to understand that this right is the duty of everyone else of the state with its institutions, of us politicians, of the families, of the parents, of the intelligentsia. They have to work in such a way that the right to accept it as a higher value so that we can all live better. We will therefore support any policy that connects parents and teachers in a community for more knowledge and better education of children. Let this year be the year of good examples in schools and kindergartens, successful teachers and their children and students, the discontinued bad practices, the professionalism of teachers, the return of trust in the school and the educational system. There is no need for bans, not restrictions, not regulations, needs faith and freedom in school. Enough with the whining, including from this tribune, that everything is bad, that education does not happen, that teachers are old and poor, that our children cannot, that the school is private lessons and a road to abroad. That's not true, guys! The bad examples are much less than the good ones, and here in this room, there are many colleagues who will confirm it. Let's stop trying to underestimate each other and say that nothing's going on and that nothing's good. This is the speech that is our worst enemy as a society. Let us allow professionals who enter kindergarten and school to teach our children, work and be successful. Let us allow our children to be happy and motivated by good, not to learn that nothing is going on and that they have no choice. Every child, every teacher, every subject and every school and kindergarten are important to us. There is no single recipe and quick solutions, but there are ways to solve every case and support any undisputed policy for high-quality education, purposefulness to knowledge, respect for the teacher, education as a value for every family. A firm commitment of the state to support, control and create opportunities for modern, quality, promising for every person education. This is our way. And remember that in the word "school" our values, perseverance, honesty, sincerity, love, ideal, happiness, ethics, school are forged! Happy new school year to you all, the wind of the firsts! [[Current applause from GERB, single applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u124	Thank you, dear Mrs. Damyanova. Desire for a declaration on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Here you go, Mr. Mehmet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u125	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! All who have devoted their lives to education and science know and accept autumn not for political season, but consider it as a new beginning, new learning time, new students and new students. The new school year is also a new challenge for students and teachers, because through knowledge, experience, competence and will development is achieved, and our children are actually the growing future ahead of us. Underrated or overrated, teaching actually gives life to all other professions. Good teachers are remembered all their lives. Thank God they still exist and work with dedication, almost inexplicable as a love for school, but also with a conscious feeling for children, books and knowledge that should betray it. And what and what knowledge are we talking about? For lessons learned, for study plans, for scientific content in textbooks and the topics, events, works and personalities of certain subjects for 100 years. Here the discussion never subsides simply because life in the new democratic time requires a new look, requires scientific truth, requires the modern Bulgarian secular school to prepare smart and self-thinking children. Our mission is for these children to be ready for the challenges in the modern world, to create the future, not to live with its prejudices of past times. The Bulgarian school, education and science as a whole must lay the foundations of a developed European state. Are we working on that strategy? And a very serious question: is there a large-scale state thought that creates opportunities and solves outstanding problems? The right state policy must be a reality, not just a wish. It's still a piece of work. There is something else happening in the Bulgarian education too unacceptable, too wicked and this is an accent in our declaration for the beginning of the academic year 2018. Dear colleagues, today I will draw your attention to an ugly phenomenon that has gained serious scale. Instead of making efforts and creating conditions for quality education, a party ruling over the past 10 years allows this political greed to reach out and take over the Bulgarian school. GERB distorted the system. Unceremonious cadres corrupt this system. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] The increase in teachers' salaries does not give you any reason to share education because it is not yours. It's not your money either. The worthy Bulgarian teachers do not accept this harsh interference and politicisation. School directors are defined in party offices, which are often cowardly obedient to the party, but it is they who become real tyrants in schools. A large part of them are a temporary acting officer, which is actually a type of circumvention of the law. The competitions are slowing down, and who will be the new school party ruler is known in advance. We cannot help but express our indignation at this wicked practice today. Before the first day of school we address you with a call: stop this ugly politicization of Bulgarian education! The Bulgarian teacher is not a ten-year-old who carries votes, and his mission is not political! The educational and educational process is not a party campaign and requires knowledge, skills and competences. Education is a national priority, state policy and this violation violates traditions, erotics trust and undermines statehood, affects in an unimaginable way the quality of teaching and brings uncertainty for tomorrow. No political power in the last 30 years has allowed itself so brutally to release foreign people and appoint faithful personnel in educational institutions. [[Shouts from GERB: "Eee! "]] In some areas of the country over 80% of the directors of schools are from GERB. [[GERB lines.]] If you don't believe and want to disprove us, check it out first. Because it's quite possible in this way to see and to realize that a party does not mean a country, does not mean a country. Now that's crazy! Finally, in spite of everything, we wish all dedicated and honorable teachers to show patience and professionalism and with an unstoppable love for knowledge to continue on their path. We wish all students to search and discover themselves in the ever-developing world of September 15 is a celebration, a happy one! A successful new school year! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u126	Thank you, Mr. Mehmet. Are there any other declarations? On behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP Ms. Nencheva, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u127	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! We're back on the eve of the new school year! Once again, the school bell will gather our children in the classrooms! Again the teachers will welcome their students! But how many of us colleagues have understood and realized that teachers are tired even before the first lesson begins? [[Greece and laughter from GERB.]] How many of us realize that for most of the students the school is no longer a place without which they cannot? What happens at the Bulgarian school? It loses its place every year of an outbreak of knowledge, loses the flame of enlightenment. Dear MPs, it is a fact that two years ago the Preschool and School Education Act was introduced. [[Laughter at GERB]] without broad support from society and the teacher's guild. This created chaos in the system of secondary education, treated the teacher's right to normal pedagogical work and confronted society with problems that are solved in a piece without a long-term perspective. This is when a new law does not have at the heart of its philosophy raising the pedestal work of the teacher and the student's knowledge. For now this is postponed in time and uncompromisingly returns as a boomerang in the functional illiterateness of Bulgarian students. He goes back to the aggression among the children. He returned to the lack of educators and refused the young to devote themselves to one of the noblest professions. It returns to degeneration of the nation, and neither the mechanisms for the scope of children and students, nor the noisy promotion of the percentage increase in the salaries of pedagogists will result in the desired result because the desire for knowledge, the longing for education, is interrupted. Because it is not realized that the heart and soul of Bulgarian education is the teacher. It is important to consider that one part of the solution to the problem of education is the strong and clean relationship with the native, with the father. We don't need docoean emissaries to rewrite history in our curriculums and stir into our children's souls. Why do we rarely talk about Balkanji Yovo's sacrificial brotherly affection anymore, and why do our children find it difficult to read under the yoke? Why don't our children learn about Marco Kralevite, set foot on the Stara Planina and Pirin to free three chains of slaves from the black Arab? Students are learning less and less about the sorrow and joy of Bulgarians, sung in folk songs, the wild rhythm of our dances, the voice of the bagpipes from Rhodope Mountain. Through education we must preserve, preserve Bulgarianity. Education is the barrier to the evils from which we must save our children in order to sense the strong foundations of their roots and to seek the truth about the world that surrounds them. We have the example of our revival spirit of the Bulgarians and his desire to study read and letter his child to be literate and beneficial to himself, to his family, to his people. Dear Members of Parliament, let what we share so far is an occasion to take account of the responsibility that everyone in this House brings, for the respect of the Bulgarian teacher, for the students' knowledge, for the parents' empathy to the educational process, for the responsibility of our entire society to the last fortress, the education that can save us, to raise us, to give us strength and self-esteem as a people for our importance in world history. When we start from here with a position of unity on the issue of education and forward-looking state policy, when we exceed our party ego here, when we put in the curriculum the idea of the greatness of the Bulgarian, not of hatred and opposition, when we reach agreement on strong Bulgarian education, we will have the satisfaction, and the recognition that we are useful with our deeds. But the festival is coming and we are all waiting for the voice of the first school bell, which will bring together the teachers and students again. Dear first graders, this is the first time you're going to cross the threshold of your home school. Teachers will reveal to you the wonderful world of letters. Learn to read and write to walk confidently in life and remember with gratitude your first teacher! Dear students and adults, be eager in the way of knowledge, be careful, dream, fulfill noble dreams and respect your teachers! Dear parents, be a supporter for your children, be a supporter for the teachers, help them, support them! Because the purpose of the welfare of children is common, and responsibilities are also common. Dear teachers, colleagues! Be healthy and stand your ground because you create the future of Bulgaria in the classrooms! You are proving for another school year that you create and validate successes despite the difficulties and unthinkables in the educational system. I wish you from the heart a calm and successful school year! Be blessed and inspired! Happy Thanksgiving! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u128	Thank you, Ms. Nencheva. We continue our work with parliamentary control. First of all, a question from the National Representative Volen Siderov on the activities of the Consular Service of the Republic of Bulgaria in Moscow will be answered by Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva, Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Minister of Foreign Affairs. Here you go, Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Zaharieva, my question is related to the work of the Consulate Office in Moscow. This is what we're talking about. According to an agreement between the European Union and the Russian Federation, participants in cultural events are exempt from a fee when they receive a visa. This agreement was violated in the last year by the Head of Consulate Department at the Embassy of Bulgaria in Russia Nikolay Panayotov. How is it broken? In a way that violates the 2007 Agreement, you should know better, this is an Agreement on the European Community and the Russian Federation on the facilitation of the issuance of visas to the citizens of the European Union and the Russian Federation. This agreement of 17 May 2007 provides for participants in cultural events to be exempt from a visa fee. As I said, the Agreement has been violated in the last year as follows. Requirements for the participants of the festival begin to be set. My signal, just to tell you, is from the chairman of the non-governmental organization International Festival "Friends of Bulgaria" which has been holding cultural events in Bulgaria for 15 years. These are ensembles, singers and dancers who visit from the Russian Federation and export their program. For the first time in this year, the Consulate Office has started making obstacles in this way. I will literally read part of Mr. Tsvetan Ivanov's letter He writes several times, but doesn't get an answer and exposes the facts, and they are. On April 5th, the first documents are being submitted to the consulate, as they have been for the past seven years. On April 16th, the consular department required new documents to be presented - medical insurance, airline tickets, confirmations of a paid hotel, are provided. On the 18th, in just two days, the consular department requires an additional table to be provided with information on which activity is carried out in the creative group, the information shall be provided. The following day, the consular department has a new request, does not accept the table which it requested the previous day, but requires business notes, for which time is needed and they begin to be obtained. On 8 May, the consular department refused to accept any documents for issuing free visas. All of this is obviously a deliberate harassment of cultural relationships. My question is this, I will read it: for what reasons are the European regulations being violated by our consulate in Moscow and what measures will you take to implement the EU-Russian agreement seamlessly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u130	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Come in for an answer, Mrs. Deputy Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u131	Dear Vice-President, Mr. Siderov, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Siderov, I wrote down the dates of the case to check it specifically and separately, but I would like to give a few details. As you rightly quoted the agreement in question, indeed under art. 6, p. 3 of that letter, point (j) of Article 3 of the Agreement, shall be issued free visas to persons involved in scientific, cultural and creative activities, including university and other exchange programmes. I assure you that all Russian participants in cultural events in Bulgaria are granted free visas when they meet the conditions and I will give data. The fact is that every 8th visa from Moscow issued for the period 1 January 13 September 2018, I simply made a reference in the period when I received the question, the Consular Service in Moscow issued 17 186 visas for the purpose of cultural exchange of 170 thousand. For last year, the figures are from 146 thousand visas, 18,659 visas are free and are again for cultural exchange. So this is really a constant quantity and a constant trend. Visas shall be refused only in cases where the provisions of the Agreement have been infringed. Such cases, for example, may be where participants in such events pay and participate in festivals for commercial purposes, i.e. when persons have paid for their participation. I'm setting an example. In several cases, when in the process of issuing visas and interviews, really practices have been established for which we have signalled the relevant institutions, but for which the Ministry cannot be held responsible, such as there are unscrupulous persons and organisations, obviously in Russia, which collect not small money from people, such as 2313 euros. In these packages people pay overnight, road and corresponding visas. We have also found the issuance of imitations of tourist vouchers to relevant tourists who simulate similarity with Russian tour operators accredited to the embassy. Indeed, since there was no specific case in your question, I undertake to check this particular case, to carry out an inspection on it and really correct it if any wrong visa charges have been collected. It's not money, it's just visa fees. So I didn't give the data for a reason. Obviously, we're not just interfering, we're stimulating. The fact that every eighth visa issued by Moscow is intended for cultural exchange by 13 September 2018 shows that we really want to alleviate rather than make it difficult. But there is no way to close our eyes if, and when someone illegally collects money from the participants and tries to circumvent the Agreement, accordingly, to damage the state budget, because these are fees that enter into the state budget. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u132	Thank you, Minister Zaharieva. Mr. Siderov, you have the opportunity to reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u133	Ms. Zaharieva, I have studied the case and I am paying attention because in the years 2011 - 2017 there have been no such difficulties. They appear now this year, and maybe there are some instructions, I don't know, from the Ministry. This is also a question which we should clarify..................................................................................................... If that's true, it's good to be honest with each other and see how to get over it. Because such cases, such questions as the one I ask, can also be a start for regulatory changes in which to consider whether it is not possible to release Russian tourists from visas there, as in one Turkey, to say that they should be obtained here, on Bulgarian territory and to facilitate the arrival of Russian tourists who, we know, are a dominant number of our tourism and bring quite serious profits to our tourist business. This is also a topic that we can consider. I wish if Bulgaria could not pay a tax to geopolitical ideologists and as a result of advice from someone outside to limit the communication between Bulgaria and Russia for example. This shouldn't happen because it's hurting our country. I hope you will check the case and talk further, I would say creatively, in the direction: whether the legal base can change, the requirements so as to facilitate the arrival of Russian tourists in our country. Bulgaria will only benefit from this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u134	Thank you. Would you like a douche? Here you are, Minister Zaharieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u135	I will answer only the question.. instructions from me or from some of the political guides have not been given and there is no change this year. I gave her the numbers for this one and the last one for a reason, to make sure it was the same. The only clues resulting from this question that I know are given by the Financial Directorate, they become every year and are given in order to avoid abuse. Obviously, it wasn't a coincidence that I was quoting these cases that we've identified. People are misled, which is not good for Bulgaria as well, collecting money for them, and it is not a little "2200 euros," is hardly a small amount of money. The idea of these guidelines, which the Financial Directorate gives each year to consular services, is really strict to implement the provision so that there is no abuse of the state budget, because in the end these people are also responsible for the state budget. But for the other topic, the work of the Foreign Ministry is really to assist in easing existing legal obstacles to attracting more tourists. I'm ready to talk. We've been looking into it. Unfortunately, it is not possible under Schengen requirements, but let us really organise a meeting to see what we can do for relief or faster issuance.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u136	Allow me to thank Mrs. Ekaterina Zaharieva for her participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with a question for Mr. Boyl Banov, Minister of Culture. He will answer a question from the National Representative Velislava Krasteva on an administrative building on 1 Georgy Benkovski Street................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. Here you are, Mrs. Krasteva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister! My question concerns the building in which Sofia Philharmonic is housed and, in essence, it concerns the following question. On the third, fourth, fifth and sixth floors of the vizied building, which is duly mentioned in the question, as submitted to you, is situated property which is public state, for the purpose of Delova and administrative activity. These sites are located directly above the hall of Sofia Philharmonic, and Sofia Philharmonic has been worried for years about the performance of its main activity, as it does not have separate dressing rooms, but the shop is flooded systematically, there are no separate rooms for rehearsal and so on. In view of this situation, the Sofia Philharmonic has deposited a letter to the governor of the district at the end of April this year to be made available to it for service purposes the site and the act of public government property with the relevant attributes to it. The administrative address is Sofia, 1 Benkovski Street. So far, however, the Regional Administration has not returned a reply to Sofia Philharmonic on this issue. In this regard, I ask: on the basis of art. 2 of the Law on Protection and Development of Culture were there received by the Ministry of Culture to the Regional Administration, to the district governor of Sofia City to provide the above-mentioned sites for the needs of the Philharmonic? Also, my question concerns the establishment of status and whether they are currently enjoying, are they busy? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u138	Thank you, dear Mrs. Krasteva. Come in for an answer, dear Mr. Banov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u139	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Mrs. Krasteva, in connection with your question I inform you the following: Sofia Philharmonic is a state stage institute of national importance, with history and traditions in the field of symphony music in the country. The Institute is an independent legal person of budget support in the cultural system. In recent years, Philharmonic activity has developed with trends for growing audiences and increased performances, such as number of concerts and performances. The activation of the cultural product and the maintenance of high artistic quality require an appropriate working environment for both the creative and executive composition and the administrative unit. By letter dated 24 July 2018, the director of Sofia Philharmonic requested the Ministry of Culture for support and assistance to the relevant institutions for providing premises representing, as you said, the third, fourth, fifth and sixth floor of a building, with administrative address: Sofia, Benkovski Street. In the same building are the service entrance of Sofia Philharmonic and service rooms. The letter was accompanied by four copies of references from the electronic website of the Geodesy, Cartography and Cadaster Agency, with which the premises of the third, fourth, fifth and sixth floors were reflected as a separate site in a building, with the relevant identifier of the cadastral map and cadastral registers of the city of Sofia. The letter states that the premises are public government property. No information on the ownership of the premises described shall be kept in the Ministry of Culture. There is no indication that the same will be provided for the management of the Ministry under the law order. The on-site view of employees of the Ministry of Culture and Sofia Philharmonic found that the premises on the third, fourth, fifth and sixth floor are located in a building with administrative address: Sofia, The building next door is closed. The external examination suggests that the premises are not being used at the time. In this regard, by letter dated 11 September 2018, the Ministry of Culture requested that Mr. Pehlivanov be provided with copies of the State Property Act to initiate procedures under the State Property Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u140	Thank you, dear Minister. Here's your cue, Mrs. Krasteva. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u141	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. To some extent, it is a satisfying answer that I have received, and yet I would like to emphasise once again your greater involvement with the issue, not for other reasons, but because it has been a practice in recent years that the public should be informed about, let us say, the arbitrary actions of the district governors, especially in Sofia, especially when it comes to public property, especially when it comes to cultural monuments and then to take action when it is already, so to speak, certain adverse processes have taken place. So I pay attention to you, please be more persistent, not to find at some point that it has been sold, it has been hired by someone who has other types of interests, as it is really about the center of Sofia, it is about Sofia Philharmonic, it is about a monument of culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u142	Thank you, Mrs. Krasteva. Here's your coat, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u143	Thank you. I would like to stress that Mr. Pehlivanov and I are working very well, and I think that this undertaking will be brought to a successful conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u144	Allow me to thank Mr. Boil Banov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We continue with the questions to the Minister of Education Krasimir Valchev. First, he will answer a question from the National Representative Tanya Petrova regarding the transition of schools to a one-man regime. You have the floor, Mrs. Petrova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u145	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! My question is yet another on the topic of switching schools to a single-size training regime and is formulated as follows: the problem of passing a single-size regime is difficult to solve, we are all aware of this, and this difficulty is particularly manifested in large cities. There are 64 schools in Varna, only 34 of them are in the same mode. In this regard, it is my question: what are the specific actions that municipalities need to carry out in large cities, including the municipality of Varna, in order to resolve the complex situation in the transition of schools to a single regime?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u146	Thank you, Mrs. Petrova. Here you are, Minister, to answer the question asked.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u147	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Petrova, the goal of switching to a single regime in all schools was set by the Law on pre-school and school education, and as you said, in 2016, one period was introduced, which is unrealistic until 2021, to happen this, unrealistic! Therefore, amendments were proposed to Regulation No 10 which regulate the preparation of programmes for each municipality. 74 are municipalities that have schools of two-fold regime. It is not desirable for the period to be the same for all municipalities, one is in Simitli, another is in Sofia. The biggest problems are in Sofia, where the largest volume of investments should be made. The biggest problem in Sofia and next is Varna and Burgas, on the fourth is Plovdiv. The problem is not only with the provision of funds and with the provision of land, but when we talk about Varna and Burgas, they are also closed from many countries. We haven't given up on the target. What we do as a change in the Regulation is a differentiated deadline for all municipalities. It should not be too long to lose the ambition of transitioning to a single mode. If we say that the overall deadline is 2027, for example, it is very likely that by 2025 the action will not be taken enough as a volume of action, so these programmes must specify the actions and deadlines. The measures are generally three: building new schools, building existing schools, reducing admissions to existing schools. This has already been done in the last year, year and a half and some schools, which had a small number of second shift classes, went on a one-size regime to reduce reception. A fourth measure is possible, of course, to optimize the restructuring of the school network. Somewhere there are free professional high schools, but there is a shortage of non-specialized schools, which we have recently called general education, so it is possible such restructuring. Of course, a combination of these measures is possible. Municipal programmes in general contain a combination of these measures and after the preparation of all the programmes by 15 December we will have the funds valued and needed. There is no doubt that new schools must be built. Sofia Municipality plans the construction of four new schools, the construction of a new school is also planned in Varna, and in Burgas this week one was opened as a building, but also as a legal entity. We are currently holding meetings and coordinating these plans with all municipalities. I had the opportunity to meet with the mayor of Varna municipality and what we talked about as a municipal program is that the realistic deadline is nine years. Perhaps the longest will be 10 years. The municipality of Sofia and the rest will be shorter, i.e. within 9 years in the largest municipalities should be implemented these municipal programs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u148	Thank you, dear Minister. Here you are, Mrs. Petrova, for further questions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u149	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, Mr. Valchev. My supplementary question is related to the following: does this plan, which is currently being drawn up, an earlier transition of students to the fourth grade of single-purpose regime and especially for the municipality of Varna, have any clarity yet how the 10 schools that are located in five buildings will carry out a process of passing each school into a separate building?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u150	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u151	We do not yet have the final version of the plan, it will probably be further discussed, we expect it to be proposed to a municipal council for discussion. Perhaps these schools, which you mentioned, the five schools, are the most difficult part of the implementation of the plan, and in any case will also need to expand the existing building fund. What I'm saying is with construction, building a lot of places will do with building and reducing reception. Another change in Regulation No 10 is the possibility for municipalities to coordinate the reception and offer a reduction in admission in the largest schools where there is no single-change regime and no full-time organisation is provided. The fact is that until now there was no such mechanism and there was an incentive for schools to increase the number of classes, which led to unjustified concentration of students in certain schools. That's it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u152	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mrs. Petrova, the asking procedure gives you the opportunity to express your attitude. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u153	I would like to thank Mr. Valchev for being personally committed to solving issues with major cities. I realize that it is very difficult for the situation in Varna to optimize the school network, but with the crucial support of the Ministry and with the active position of the municipality on this issue, I believe that this first step of separation of schools and optimization should be taken. I am sure that we will use exactly the content of your sentence that the process will take place in Varna in the next nine years and not in at least nine years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u154	Thank you, dear Mrs. Petrova. We continue with a question from the National Representative Petar Petrov about the unresolved problems with the Regional Management of Education. Here you go, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u155	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Minister, in the last seven months I have been asked by teachers, respectively principals of leading educational institutions in my electoral district, about the methodology in the work of the Head of the Regional Education Department "Mrs. Biserka Mihaleva. The complaints of educators and administrative leaders in schools are related to the authoritarian style of leadership of the head of the RVO, with the sole decision-making on cardinal issues, with harassment and threats against the voiced dissent with her staff. I had a few conversations with you, respectively with Deputy Minister Mihailova, with a view to finding a quick personnel solution, I also met with Mrs. Taneva. Unfortunately, it turns out that I was misled by the management of the Ministry of Education and Ms. Taneva. No one in the Ministry, nor in the political leadership of GERB party, has been invited to make personnel changes before the beginning of the school year. The opposition of schools, respectively guides, continues at the moment and is deepening, and this beats the ruling coalition and that is why I am asking the question in this way. Recently she was forced or, as we said in our previous statements, Mrs. Yakimova, a respected principal at the school, who was not left despite the desire of the collective to work for another year. During the past period Mrs. Mihaleva proved that she cannot unite school structures. Solving the problem of reducing the number of students, opening or closing schools, redirecting an appropriate way to students is postponed to the uncertain future. I hope that you will answer my question: how many of the principals of schools in Sliven, respectively in Sliven Municipality, were without permanent contracts at work on 1 September 2017, respectively on 1 September 2018? Because this is one of the pitfalls Mrs. Mihaleva has with her subordinates, one of the reasons for the low motivation in the collectives, respectively, for the low results in the work of many of the schools? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u156	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Come in for an answer, Minister Valchev. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u157	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, last year we commented on the changes in the school network, which are a projection of demographic changes in our country. The Ministry observes the implementation of the principle of equal access for all students in the country. In this regard, lists of intermediate and protected schools shall be updated annually. In the talks with Ms. Mihaylova and Ms. Taneva, a solution is sought for problems in Sliven region. Last year, tensions were created in the municipality of Sliven regarding the implementation of art. Art. 16 and art. 17 of Ordinance No 10 on the organisation of activities in school education, given the gradual provision of the full-time organisation. Under no circumstances can you claim to have been misled, we actually spoke a few months ago. Ms. Vasileva met the conditions for retirement on 21 August. Given the many organizational work on the eve of the school year, it is my decision, it has no connection with Ms. Taneva or anyone else, in a conversation with Mrs. Biserka Mihaleva, we have decided that the termination of her relationship will be at the end of September or at the beginning of October. In relation to your specific question, on 1 September 2018 there are a total of 26 directors of educational institutions in the territory of Sliven district, of which 10 are in the municipality of Nova Zagora 6 in Kotel 6 in Tvarditsa 3. With fixed-term contracts at present, there are a total of 16 directors with a total duration of one year in the municipality of Sliven, 8 in the municipality of Nova Zagora, 3 in the municipality of Kotel 2 and the municipality of Tvarditsa 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Here's a line for you, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u159	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I have once expressed my opinion from this tribune that from the ministers of education, which I have been following for 10 years, you are the person who will reform the educational system of Bulgaria, and we must help you. But things don't always depend on you, and I know that choosing the heads of the district government is also a political issue. I hope that you will really do this and then relieve many of the directors in Sliven region. As you mentioned, last year I was so told that about 30 directors stand by temporary contracts, and now they are reduced to 16, which is also not good. There shouldn't be directors who... I know the principal of one of the biggest schools who's just starting his fourth year with a temporary contract. These people cannot wait for motivation and the collective they manage to make difficult decisions. I would like to express my confidence that you will appoint an energetic person to unite, not to divide, as Mrs. Mihaleva has so far, a reform will take place in schools because 35% of the population in Sliven are Roma. There are already two major schools that are segregated. I will now give you a letter sent to me by the mayor of Gorno Alexandrovo, a village with only Gypsies students who are different gypsies. I'm sorry to use that expression. These people are like boiler gypsies, intelligent people, they want their children to study, and they can't. Ms. Mihaleva ignores every year the demands of the residents of Gorno Alexandrovo. And now I'm going to give you a list that shows that for the last 10 years, since the school in the village has been closed, there are enough students every year to reveal classes. But they don't reveal themselves?! Here, there are 174 signatures of parents from Gorno Alexandrovo, another 36 from Trapoklovo, who want to reveal the school and their children to receive education. I'm giving you this list, I assume you have it. Thank you for your patience, Madam President, for extending my time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-14.u160	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. We will also thank the Minister of Education and Science for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We're done with our work. The next regular meeting on 19 September 2018 was held at 9:00 p.m. [[PHONE RINGING]]
