ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. [[PHONE RINGING]] I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, before we move on to today's agenda, I will read you a message: "Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, we withdraw the bill for amendment and supplement of the Law on Defence and Armed Forces of the Republic of Bulgaria on 2 November 2018, No 854-01-80. Importers: Konstantin Popov, Plamen Manushev, Zapriyan Yankov and Dimitar Lazarov. Colleagues, we are moving to the first item of today's agenda: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE PUNISHING CODEX. Importers: Tsveta Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 24 October 2018 The report will introduce us to Mr. Daniel Kirilov. Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u2	Madam President, honourable Members, ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-76, submitted by Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 24 October 2018. At its meeting held on 8 November 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-76, submitted by Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva and a group of MPs on 24 October 2018. The meeting was attended by: the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva; by the Ministry of Justice Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva Minister, Mrs. Desislava Ahladova Deputy Minister, Mr. Evgeni Stoyanov Deputy Minister, and Mr. Alexander Stefanov State Expert in the Department of Law and by the Embassy of the UK in Bulgaria Mr. Tom Heins. Head of the Political Department, and Mrs. Petya Hristova Advisor; by UNICEF Bulgaria Ljubomir Krilchev; by the Association of Bulgarian Lawyers for Human Rights Mrs. Yordanka Bekirska Executive Director; by the Association of the University Women. Mrs. Mariana Evtimova; Mrs. Albena Koycheva; Ms. Elena Krasteva; Ms. Daniela Gorbunova and Mrs. Albena Koycheva; Mr. Yavor Videnov and Mr. Dimitar Genov Foundation; Mrs. Yordan Todorov Chair; Mr. Association of the Fathers in Bulgaria. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva, who pointed out her personal commitment and empathy to him, noting that the bill is related to the need to ensure comprehensive criminal protection against any acts of violence, including domestic violence. The President of the National Assembly stressed that a strict and firm Penal Code would give a clear signal to the victims, to the absent witnesses and to the potential perpetrators that such crimes would never go unpunished again. The project complements qualified compositions of murder and bodily damage in order to incriminate all forms of domestic violence that escalate to invasion of the lives or health of individuals. The Minister of Justice added that he supports the changes to the Criminal Code, as they are aimed at more effective prevention and countering various forms of violence. It is proposed that the conduct of the relevant acts of domestic violence should be raised as qualifying signs in the system of a number of criminal offences................................and soliciting others to commit suicide, kidnapping, unlawful imprisonment, coercion, coercion, invitation of crime. Ms. Tsacheva noted that with art. 144a, para. 1 of the Project is proposed criminalization of mental violence, which has had harmful consequences for the victim. The systematic exercise of mental violence is intended to be punishable by imprisonment for up to one year or probation, and in cases where the offence is committed under domestic violence, it is proposed that the sentence be imprisonment for up to five years. Incriminating all forms of systematic persecution in art. 144a, para. 2 of the Penal Code. It is proposed to be punished by imprisonment for up to one year or by probation, the one who systematically pursues another in order to arouse fear in him for his safety or that of his neighbors if the committed does not constitute a more serious crime. The bill proposes a change in the nature of certain violent crimes by those who are persecuted on the grief of the victim, in those who are of a general nature. It is all cases of intentional cause of moderate or severe bodily injury. With the change of art. 161, para. 1 of the Penal Code, all forms of domestic violence leading to a more serious involvement of body integrity, will be pursued ex-officio, which is an essential element of ensuring justice for victims of domestic violence, ensuring their access to a court. With the change of art. Art. 177, Art. 190 of the NK aims to ensure effective protection for potential victims of forced marriages, which may be obliged by their families to leave the country of residence in order to enter into marriage in the country from which their family comes. The establishment of a qualified composition of the crime under art. 296 of the NK in the event of failure to comply with a judgment or an order for protection against domestic violence or a European protection order. The Bill provides for changes to the Code of Criminal Procedure and to the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention, which provide immediate information to the victim with the specific needs of protection in cases where the detainee of the violence escapes or is released temporarily or permanently. The Bill received a positive opinion from the Ministry of Justice. Representatives of NGOs noted the need to define domestic violence and proposed to extend the circle of individuals who could come into this hypothesis, including to clarify that victims of domestic violence are not only marriage partners but also people in actual cohabitation. It was proposed that measures for immediate protection, such as the provisions of the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence, should be provided for in the Bill. It has been pointed out that, as a cause of domestic violence, one parent's refusal to execute a judicial decision on the regime of contact with the child may also be. In the name of the children of Bulgaria, they believe that it is necessary to incriminate the NK as a form of mental violence the forced alienation of a child from one parent. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Krum Zarkov, Valeri Zablyanov, Simeon Naydenov, Dimitar Stoyanov and Hristian Mitev. Members of the National Assembly expressed their support for the bill, uniting themselves around the opinion that measures need to be taken to protect victims of domestic violence. They noted that there is a need to refine certain provisions between first and second votes. As a result of the discussion held, the Committee on Legal Affairs unanimously with 15 votes for the Criminal Code, No 854-01-76, submitted by Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva and a group of Members of the National Assembly on October 24, 2018
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Would you like a procedure? No. You have the floor on the motives of an importer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u4	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, I present your attention. I'm sorry. I'm to the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code According to the World Health Organization, violence is the deliberate use of force or power, by threatening or implementing acts against another person or group of people in the community, which leads or is likely to lead to injury, death, psychological trauma, retardation of development or any loss. Violence is not limited by incidents, but is behavior ranging from verbal harassment and abuse, threats, unwanted sexual advances, resulting in physical assault and, in the extreme, murder. At the same time, violence poses a serious threat to fundamental human rights and poses a danger to health, the right to life and the right to be treated with respect. The survivors of violence describe it as injury, trauma, violation of the integrity not only of the body but also of the personality. With art. 4, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is declared that our country guarantees the life, dignity and rights of the individual and creates conditions for the free development of human and civil society. With the expression of the right of the person concerned are those prescribed by positive law and morals, fundamental opportunities that guarantee every person a decent life. In view of this, the implementation of violence violates fundamental human rights regulated in the Constitution, such as the right to life; the right to personal freedom and physical and mental integrity; the prohibition of torture and the right to security and dignity; equality between men and women and lack of discrimination, and others. According to unofficial data, every fourth woman in the country is a victim of violence in her everyday life and home. Regardless of the constitutionally declared equal rights of women and men, there is in fact discrimination against women, which is carried out through some of the types of violence that are difficult to identify and prove. This includes, in particular, physical and mental violence, sexual violence, including rape, persecution, unlawful imprisonment, forced marriages, forced abortions and violent sterilization, as well as sexual harassment. These findings are also supported by the analysis of the judicial statistics. The data from a study of the caselaw of ten district courts covering the sentences given in the period 2012 - 2014 for deliberate killings and attempted murder of women show that in 91% of the cases, the murders of women were committed by men, 7% in association with men and women, and only 2% of women. In 35% of cases, the murders and attempted murder of women were committed by the victim's current or former intimate partner, in 25% by her brother, son, grandson or other close relative, in 31% by another known man, and only 9% by a stranger. In 19% of the sentences it is explicitly mentioned that the victim was subjected to systematic physical domestic violence by the perpetrator and in 21% that the victim was elderly or suffering from severe physical or mental illness. In two thirds of the cases, the murder was committed at the victim's home. In the light of the foregoing, the present Draft Law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code concerns the need to ensure adequate and comprehensive criminal protection against any acts of violence against women, including domestic violence. The proposed amendments and additions aim to improve the Bulgarian legal framework with a view to preventing and countering these forms of criminal behavior. The measures proposed in the Bill are timely and necessary to address the identified public danger phenomenon. As far as the violation of the most important public goods of the person's life and health is concerned, it is proposed to criminalise all forms of violence, respectively, with regard to their perpetrators through the most severe form of state coercion, such as punishment. The project complements qualified compositions of murder and bodily damage in order to incriminate all forms of domestic violence that escalate to invasion of the lives or health of individuals. At present, these crimes are qualified in view of the particularities of the subject when committed against a mother, father, biological child, pregnant woman, minor or helpless person. Those qualified groups shall not include cases of violent acts against former or current spouses. Given that domestic violence in intimate relations is mostly manifested in the form of physical violence, especially between current and former spouses, it is necessary to introduce a legal guarantee in the Penal Code that physical violence will be more severely punishable. By the Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, the carrying out of the relevant acts under domestic violence is raised as qualifying signs in the system of a number of criminal offenses........................... This should lead to a change in public understanding that domestic and mental violence is a personal matter and that the state is not responsible for preventing it. The Law on the Amendment and Supplement to the Penal Code also proposes the incrimination of acts by which psychological violence is systematically exercised against another person who has had harmful consequences for the victim. Mental violence is almost invisible and yet a widespread form of violence. It does not leave visible marks on the victim's body, but it leaves deep and lasting scars that are very difficult to heal. This often happens in intimate relationships or at home, but it can also happen in other situations, such as at work or in a school environment. Mental violence is defined as a deliberate serious involvement of a person's psychological integrity through coercion or threat. It can be exercised by means of various means and methods, such as verbal violence, screaming, threats, harassment, intimidation, constant criticism, shame, reprimanding, use of abusive names and epithets, mocking, imitation and public humiliation, isolation of the victim by means of independent activities, deprivation of the victim's means of maintenance or economic independence, and so on. Until now, the Penal Code does not criminalize mental violence as a specific form of violence against the victim, and some of his forms are an element of the execution of crimes under art. 143 of the Penal Code, according to Art. 144 of the Penal Code and some others. There is no adequate criminal law protection from possible forms of mental violence. Therefore, it is strongly necessary to conclude that the current criminal legislation does not meet European and global standards in this regard. That's why with the new article. 144a, para. 1 of the Project is also proposed the criminalization of mental violence, which has had harmful consequences for the victim. The systematic exercise of mental violence is intended to be punishable by imprisonment for up to one year or probation, and in cases where the offence is committed under domestic violence, it is proposed that the sentence be imprisonment for up to five years. This crime has been settled as such of systematic execution in order not to sanction single isolated acts of violence which do not reveal a sufficiently high level of public danger, unless they are crimes under another legal text and as effective. Currently the current Bulgarian legislation does not provide adequate sanctions against the perpetrators, who systematically through behavior of a threatening nature against a particular person impose a sense of fear for his safety or that of his neighbors. The legislation of most European countries has a tendency to criminalise the investigation as a specific crime and to provide protection for victims, as it implies a recurring course of conduct. According to a 2011 survey, almost half of the EU member states have introduced a special provision regarding the persecution in their criminal codes. Since pursuit tactics are diverse and dynamic, especially due to increasingly popular digital technologies, most of the countries that criminalise this behaviour use broad terminology and include non-extent lists of possible pursuit tactics. The existing gaps in the Bulgarian criminal law are removed by incriminating all forms of systematic persecution in Article 144a, para. 2 of the Penal Code. It is proposed to be punished by imprisonment for up to one year or by probation, the one who systematically pursues another in order to arouse fear in him for his safety or that of his neighbors if the committed does not constitute a more serious crime. Like mental violence, persecution is also arranged as a crime of systematic execution to stress that the most severe form of state coercion is actually left for the cases where the behavior of the child is systemic and permanently violates the established legal order. The composition is set up as a subsidiary to emphasise that it will find application only in cases where the persecution has not escalated to events which are more severely punishable by the legislation in force. The crime is intended to be punished more severely by imprisonment for up to five years if it has been committed under domestic violence. The project proposes a change in the nature of some violent crimes by those who are persecuted on the grief of the victim, in those who are of a general nature. It is all cases of intentional cause of moderate or severe bodily injury. The proposed amendment to art. 161, para. 1 of the Criminal Code is dictated by the finding that a large part of the crimes that are amended and supplemented by this Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the NK are crimes normally committed by an intimate partner, family member or other persons in the close social circle of the victim. This proximity often puts the victim in a difficult situation for the purposes of prosecution. Victims of violence, including domestic violence, experience a high degree of fear, shame and helplessness, in view of their personal proximity to the perpetrators, which is why in most cases they fail to bring criminal proceedings against them. Although the Penal Code criminalises forced marriages, it still does not provide for criminal liability in the event of the person crossing the territory of the country for the purpose of forced marriage or marriage with others.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u5	Mrs. Alexandrova, if you have much more to read, shall we move on to the group's speeches?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u6	Yes, thank you. I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u7	From the time of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u8	Please engage from the time of the group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u9	The project proposes the creation of a qualified composition of the crime by art. 296 of the Penal Code. The imposition of higher sanctions in the event of failure to comply with a judgment or an order for protection against domestic violence will, on the one hand, give more real and timely protection to the victims, and, on the other hand, will strengthen the preventive effect of the punishment. A number of international and European acts have set high standards for protection against threats, persecution and re-victimisation of both victims of crime and their families and their witnesses. These standards are relevant to all stages of criminal proceedings and countries are required to take the necessary measures to comply with them. The analysis of the Bulgarian Criminal Procedure Code shows that it largely complies with the standards for the protection of the victim, but some of them have not yet been fully introduced. For this reason it is proposed to supplement the Code of Criminal Procedure with new two provisions.................................................................................................... Art. 67a. 417a, which provides for immediate information to the victim with specific protection needs in cases where the detainee of the violence escapes or is released temporarily or permanently. In this regard, the proposed amendments to the Law on the Execution of Punishment and Detention are also proposed. Thus, the victim will be able, if necessary, to take additional measures, along with those taken by the competent authorities, to reduce the risk of new violence for revenge or intimidation, to prepare, respectively, mentally for a possible meeting with the perpetrators of the violence. The proposed § 16 of the Bill is related to the amendment to art. 16 of the Law referred to above. 161, para. 1 of the Penal Code. It explicitly states that when a criminal offence committed until the entry into force of this law becomes of a general nature, criminal proceedings will be carried out under the current rules. As far as art. 161, para. 1 of the Penal Code is too specific and formally distinguishes the crimes of general nature and the crimes for which prosecution is aroused by the grief of the victim, § 16 is introduced in order to avoid disputes in the practice that change can cause.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u10	Thank you, dear Mrs. Alexandrova. You wanted the word for procedure, Mr. Kirilov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u11	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want a procedure for the admission of the Deputy Minister of Justice Mrs. Desislava Ahladova. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] In relation to this vote, on the basis of art. 52, para. 3 of the Rules of Procedure, I'm requesting a name check. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u12	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u13	I'm starting a roll call: Yavor Rumenov Bojankov - absent Yavor Bozhilov Notev - absent Yulian Mihailov Papasimov - here Julian Krastev Angelov - here Chavdar Yordanov Velinov - absent Tsvetan Genchev Tsvetanov - here Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev - absent Flower Valcheva Karayancheva - here Hristo Tanchev Prodanov - absent Hristo Grudev Grudev - absent Hristo Georgiev Gajev - absent Hristian Radev Mitev - here Hassan Ahmed Ademov - here Hamid Barry Hamid - here Halil Recepov Letifov - absent Hayri Recepov Sadakov - here Filip Stefanov Popov - absent Toma Nikolov Tomov - here Toma Lubomirov Bikov - here Todor Baychev - absent Teodora Radkova Georgieva - here Teodora Atanasova Halacheva - here Tasco Mihaylov Ermenkov - absent Tanya Todorova Petrova - here Tanner Mehmed Ali - here Stoyan Mihailov Mirchev - absent Stefan Lambov Danailov - absent Stefan Ivanov Burgeev - here Stefan Apostolicov - here Stanislava Krasimirova Stoyanova - here Stanislav Todorov Stanilov - here Stanislav Stoyanov Ivanov - here Stanislav Ivanov Popov - here Stanislav Ivanov Vladimirov - absent Save Yanev Panchev - here Spas Georgiev Gurnevski - here Snezana Georgieva Dukova - absent Slavcho Stoev Atanasov - here Slavcho Georgiev Velkov - absent Slavi Dichev Netzov - here Simeon Christov Simeonov - here Simeon Georgiev Naydenov - here Sergey Manushov Kichikov - here Sevim Ismail Ali - here Svetlana Angelova Naydenova - here Svetla Marinova Bachvarova-Piralkova - absent Ruslan Zdravkov Toshev - here Rumen Petrov Genov - here Rumen Nikolov Georgiev - here Rumen Vasilev Gechev - here Rosen Zhivkov Ivanov - here Ramadan Bajram Atali - absent Radostin Radoslavov Tanev - here Radoslava Plamen Chekanska - here Radoslav Lubchev Stoychev - absent Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - absent Pencho Plamenov Milkov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - absent Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - absent Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Manol Trifonov Genov - absent Manoil Minchev Manev - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - absent Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - absent Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Apostolicov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Ilian Angelov Timchev - absent Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Kirov Genov - absent Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski - here Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgeni Genchev Budinov - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - absent Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - absent Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here So far, 131 MPs. There's a quorum. Let's read the extras they signed up for: Hristo Grudev, Milen Mihov, Krasimir Velchev, Menda Stoyanova and Yavor Notev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u14	Colleagues, we're moving on. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov. They voted 142 MPs: 133, against 4, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Deputy Minister to enter the room. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak. Mrs. Karayancheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As we promised two months ago to make changes to the Penal Code, they are now a fact. [[Reply from MP Dragomir Stoinev.]] The proposals have been made and we expect you to support them, colleague. I expect that today we will unite on these proposals that incriminate domestic violence, which is scary, which hits people's dignity. When we talk about domestic violence against women, we talk about this because the percentage of women injured is greater than of children and men, but this bill is a proposal to combat domestic violence in general. Of course, these crimes always shake, even sometimes they make us shed a tear, but what if after one or two hours, or after one or two days, the event is forgotten and another victim of domestic violence fades as an image and as a name. I will not stop repeating the names of two of the victims: Viola Nikolova, killed for hours, in a particularly cruel way, heard by the neighbors screaming, but no one bothered to call 112. Do we still remember the horror of Ayshegül Salieva, who was also beaten, killed by her husband and again the soullessness of society?! In addition to supporting this bill, we must make a very serious campaign, colleagues. We must explain that we should not be viewers, but we should be involved in preventing this epidemic. I am very pleased that we, as the legislature, are taking measures. I see the time has come for real action. Today we will debate on this bill, which is about all those women who have suffered, and those who silently suffer and dare not come out and say what pain they are experiencing in their family. Every woman has the right to enter into a relationship and come out of it whenever she chooses. Every Bulgarian citizen has that right. In the Committee on Legal Affairs, we have had a very good discussion. There were participants from non-governmental organizations. There have been people who have suffered domestic violence, and what they have told us is that it is important that people can make their own decisions. I hope we'll be united, colleagues! I hope that we will put aside political passions and at this moment we will do so as one to support the victims of violence! What we are proposing in this bill is a change in the first few paragraphs that concern a change in crimes against the individual. They affect physical integrity in domestic violence. So far, domestic violence has not been included. Now, to all qualified members of murder, suicidal intent, bodily harm, kidnapping, illegal imprisonment, coercion, indictment, is added: committed under domestic violence. Here we define both psychological violence and systematic persecution. At the moment, there is no possibility in the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence in any way to influence someone to be systematically persecuted. I will give you an example of mental violence, which representatives of non-governmental organizations shared: a boy and a girl have a relationship without having a marriage. They have an affair for several months. The girl decides she has to get out of it. The boy leaves a rose on the car every day. The girl gets stressed and hysterical when she gets out to work and sees the rose. When the authorities of the Ministry of Interior come, he says: "I don't do anything, I just put a rose on her car. " - Yes, but this is systematic violence. It's psychological violence that's being exercised, and if you don't take action, it could turn into murder, it could turn into suicide. It's an invasion of human life. All these things happen in intimate relationships, in the home where there is no opportunity for anyone to break in and give an evaluation or to refer to institutions in any way. The other big problem, colleagues, is in small towns. In the big city there is a larger community, a greater opportunity to share these things. In the small towns there the shame is greater. Going out and saying that you've been abused by your husband or someone is hurting you is very difficult. I would like to tell you that, within this week, when we discussed the Bill in the Law Commission, four women from Kardzhali District came to me from where I am a Member of the National Assembly. This shows that the victims expect our help. The victims expect us lawmakers to do our job. Other things are involved in these changes. The lawyers will be talking about them. Because the punishments that have been offered, I do not know if they are very large or small, whether they are enough, but I am glad that there was a debate in the Legal Committee in which I heard from Mr. Kirilov that there will be a professional debate here. That makes me very happy. It's important to make a law. Changes to the Penal Code are the first step. From then on, we must surely go a very long way, make sure that we train the police, too, so that they know how to deal with the psychological violence, the systematic persecution. These are important incriminating factors that we really need to explain to everyone to know. Victims need to know that there's a way that they're gonna have a way to refer to the organs. We are now making a change in which the victim may not only refer, but may refer to her mother, family members, the prosecution, and the police, as well as to themselves. All of this will lead to protection, to prevention, because even those rapists who know that there is a punishment for what they do is a kind of prevention. When they know that all this can happen with impunity, then it can become an epidemic. We change the nature of the crimes, change the text about the forced marriage, change the PPC. Where, if one of the offenders has been in prison and has been released prematurely or has escaped, or is somehow out of the reach of the authorities, the victim must be informed so that measures can be taken and she feels protected. Finally, my fellow Members, I thank all the parliamentary groups for the speeches they have made in the Legal Committee. We have no self-esteem of infallibility, we expect proposals from all parliamentary groups, from non-governmental organisations, we expect proposals from both journalists and citizens, because this is the way. In order to prevent this violence, we must take into account all the proposals, discuss them at a high professional level, put them into this law, but put them in such a way that they do not allow abuse, because mental harassment will be proved in the same way as crime is proven with relevant evidence, testimony, psychological expertise. The psychological expertise of people who are victims of domestic violence always results when done, because these people are on edge. Thanks again to the Justice Department for the hard work they've put in. I thank both Mr Kirilov and the group of MPs from GERB. Once again, thank you to all the parliamentary groups. I hope, fellow Members, that politics will not be present here. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u16	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. - What's the line? I can't see. To speak, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u17	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We of the BSP parliamentary group deeply appreciate the desire of the Political Party GERB to continue the initiative that we started with the introduction of legislation that will incriminate domestic violence. We believe that the submitted bill is one step in this direction, of course, since the Constitutional Court has ruled, respectively, that the Istanbul Convention is not applicable to our legislation, so we are moving forward. You know, Mrs. Karayancheva, as you called on, our group will support this bill at first reading, only, as you said, between first and second readings will have to be extremely high professionalism. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I will make a few remarks on two of the texts that have been tabled. For me they are extremely surprising and if we can be clear here or at least take a note when between first and second reading works for some of the texts. First of all, it's very interesting, in art. 116, where are the qualified compositions of the murder, was introduced one item. 6a: supplied under domestic violence. Here I am worried that to a large extent it will make it difficult for law enforcement authorities to make it difficult for both the court and the prosecution because there is a reference to the definition under art. 2 of the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence, which states:.. domestic violence is any act of physical, sexual, mental, emotional, economic violence, as well as the experience of this violence, the forced limitation of personal life, personal freedom and personal rights committed against persons who are in a family relationship who were either in a family relationship or in actual marital cohabitation.................................................................... What exactly does homicide mean under domestic violence? In this definition, it is very difficult for me to understand it is really very difficult, and it is a qualified composition... I'm afraid we're going to create an extremely serious mess during law enforcement. There is another text that is also extremely interesting and I want to sharpen the attention of the importers. There are texts which foresee an increase in the penalty for kidnapping and illegal imprisonment in the conditions of domestic violence of the respective art. 142 and 142a. From there on, when we get to the texts in art. 144, para. 2 of the Criminal Code, where importers provide for imprisonment of two to eight years for a statement to an official or a representative of the public during or on the occasion of the performance of the service or of his or her function against a person using international protection under domestic violence. You really put me in here! I want you to explain to me exactly how an official on the occasion of performing his duties suffers from domestic violence? You do realize that we're entering a controversy and a case study that will be difficult to solve in practice. For this reason, I have called on you between first and second readings to demonstrate.. because you are most likely the importers and authors of this text, to find an extremely high professional way to sanitize these texts, as I am convinced that both fellow lawyers and fellow prosecutors and judges will enter quite deeply into the depths of domestic violence without being able to get out of there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? Line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u19	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ivanov, I do not want to get into a dispute and concreteization, as we are at first reading. I would like to emphasise that in the debate that was in the Legal Committee, we have heard many opinions from representatives of companies and human rights organisations working on this issue and on this issue. Indeed, we discussed the possibility of giving for the needs of the Penal Code a separate different concept of domestic violence. Personally, I think that, as proposed in the Bill, it is better, because we have a specific, special, special domestic violence law and it is good to use the concept that has been established there and to comply with it in the Penal Code. In the cases that you have tried to quote, I do not see a problem or a collision. You can be absolutely calm. I can give a lot of cases, unfortunately. Even in the neighborhood where I live, the woman who was killed on the neighboring street, albeit after a divorce, falls into the hypothesis of murder, which would qualify under domestic violence. So I invite you to take part if you wish to take part, in the debate and in the precision of the concepts. We'll check the reference to see if you've figured out whether it's forwarding or not to para. 2 as regards the quality of the official or representative of an international organisation. We are all united that we will work in good faith in the direction of precision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u20	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I won't. A hole, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u21	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I say again: The bill is a step in the right direction, but not to become a misunderstood civilization and to do something that will then completely confuse the trial in relation to these qualified groups of murders. Because, as my colleagues have told me here, three quarters of the homicide cases will probably be in the column of domestic violence, as almost all who commit such an act of taking human life are emotionally involved. You know how much this whole thing's gonna go down. By the call you gave us, we will also work, and we will work in this direction. The question is the importers, the authors of this thing, are able to rethink the consequences they will have. We're really going into some deep water. The fact is that domestic violence must be combated. Like I said, we're the first to make the move in this direction. We are pleased that you understand the need for such legislation. Still, let's not create a mess that's gonna be hard to get out of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u22	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I am happy when I go out, I speak and then I vote on issues on which consensus is emerging in all the political forces in the whole room. We, as representatives of the Bulgarian people, as his emancipation, are in fact expressing the will of the Bulgarian citizens in the direction in which they want it. However, I am worried that this discussion and the result of what we are doing in the purely legal aspect of things will go through. Let's not think, let's not imagine that we're just making a change to the Penal Code and that's all. Yeah, that's right. We are making a change in the Penal Code, we are making more severely penalized formations it is wonderful. We from Atakas have always pleaded for a more severe, more serious, more repressive criminal policy, a more severe penalty. We introduce new texts, for psychological harassment is a brand new text. We have been fighting for years to incriminate forced to marry, which affects our compatriots from the Gypsy ethnicity, and this is a great success for us. Since 2005, we've been talking about it, repeating it, suggesting we see it happening. Yes, these are measures that will have a very important impact on these extremely negative phenomena that are happening in our society. But we must realise that when criminal law is involved, it is the result, above all, of a moral deficit in society. Is it there? He's got it. That's what's scary. We have to ask ourselves: where does this moral deficit in Bulgarian society come from? Because the Bulgarian society in its patriarchality, in its tradition, in the basis of Christianity, of Orthodoxy does not know such negative phenomena. We know the saying that a man who beats his wife beats himself. This was so in the time of our grandfathers, great-grandfathers, so it was in the depths of Bulgarian folksychology. This was because there have been strong foundations, but in the past I do not even say 20. 30 years, and since the beginning of communism in Bulgaria the strong foundations have gradually been erosion. This erosion is extremely severe, it is moving at a rapid pace, especially in the last 30 years, as a result of the neoliberal views that have invaded; as a result of gender ideologies; as a result of the poor upbringing of children; as a result of the various liberal arbitrary views about the role of gender in the family and society at all. If ever, and now, of course, for the good Christians St. Mother of God is a symbol, she is the pinnacle of adoration, of respect, she is equal to her son, our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, in adoration, in the scale of our values very often the woman in the Bulgarian society her daughter is subjected to this harassment that we are talking about. In today's consensus, which we have, and what we accept, is indicative and positive to me, and it is a celebration for all of us because we show how the Bulgarian society copes and can deal with these problems aloneό! We, as the National Assembly, do it in the committees, in this Chamber, meeting the needs of the Bulgarian society in this respect, without complying with directives, harmonizations, instructions, with the conventions I refer to, all of you understand, the Geneva Istanbul Convention; we are doing it and trying to overcome it with our powers in a sovereign state, I hope, I wish, although far from it is not so. Today's act is very important to me because it is a step in this regard to emancipate, respond and show: behold, we did not accept the false one that would correct the problems in this regard, the Istanbul Convention, but we are walking and we have the will to do so. When I told you just now: this is not just a legal act, it is not just a matter of criminal law, I meant that here with this act today we are starting measures in the purely penal sphere which, as a state and society, we can accept by force. But we must go further as a society to work to change morals, to educate, to the views of young people, to the middle age; to bring back old healthy, conservative views, true values; to say that our morality is Christian morality is not someone else, invented, not some others, from anyone unnamed precisely and formulated values which some call Euro-Atlantic values there is none. These can be military, economic, political and any other alliances, but they don't give birth, they don't generate values! We Bulgarians have made our historic, civilizational choices many years ago.. You know when, by which king. Our values are Christian values. So one of the most important things for me will be a celebration of this Parliament if we do it in this Parliament, and with that we will perhaps remain in history, if we manage to combat all opposing forces and finally introduce faith in order for children from young to learn about attitude, relationships, including gender. This can teach us, this can raise us to intolerance in order to be less necessary instruments of criminal law, but to exert influence, because in this way we will restore morality. Do not be mistaken that the NGOs, the participants, the owners, to call them who live on this subject richly and richly and who were at the head of the fight for the Istanbul Convention will solve these problems. These problems will be solved by raising Christian morality and values between us. There is no doubt about how we are going to vote from "Attack," by the United Patriarchs. Let us be aware that today's act that we are going to go out with will far exceed legal, legal significance simply as a correction to the Penal Code. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u24	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. Are there lines? Any other speeches, colleagues? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u25	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! As has become known, our parliamentary group will support at first reading the proposed bill for changing the Penal Code. I will focus on some practical effects of the application of these texts, which, if my predictions are fulfilled, will have a negative effect on some of our relationships. What do I mean? It is a notary fact that family relations, and certainly domestic violence, we talk about family relations for the most part, are an extremely delicate area, as they are burdened with many feelings, emotions, interests, hopes, passion. Relationships in a family usually remain hidden. Very often the neighbors can hear that there is a scandal in the family, but they do not see that in the evening under the covers the relationship is smoothed out. I will give you an example, because there was an example with the rose: I have some neighbors, the woman, when she gets angry, chases her husband with a frying pan, he jumps out the window, in the evening they make up, and the whole neighborhood goes out of chalga, people rejoice. I am saying all this because I am afraid that these aggravated texts that we are adopting will at some point be used very conveniently in divorce cases where one of the spouses must be proven guilty; in parental or parental deprivation cases. Any scandal, as the issue of mental violence is also raised, will be presented as mental violence. We have no definition of mental violence. It is not clear what is the difference between the Law on Protection against Domestic Violence in Psychiatric Violence and what will be the difference when we declare it a crime. It is clear that from the point of view of the interests of the parties any psychological violence will be presented almost as a crime committed. But, speaking of mental violence, these are the realities of life, taking the following example: a child from difficult children regularly causes problems for his parents, at school and so on. When he gets home, one of his parents scolds him, makes a scandal, neighbors hear. In a divorce case or for parental rights, this will be properly used by the other parent, including witnessing that the scandalist parent regularly exercised mental harassment on the child. It seems to me that the example of the rose was somewhat inappropriate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u26	That's the softest example.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u27	It's a matter of perspective. One does not love, the other continues to love, we punish love. If there is to be a formulation of what mental violence is, there must be one definition, and that definition must be linked to some legitimate fear that does not imply another possibility. When there are other options, we cannot accuse anyone of committing a crime, especially that we are not in the mind of the perpetrator. As far as the definition itself is concerned, I believe that there are two options. One possibility from the point of view of what I said is to give a new definition of domestic violence to be in art. 93 of the Penal Code, where I think it's his systematic place. If this thing is not adopted, it seems to me that, in view of the psychological violence with the Transitional and Final Provisions at the second reading of the Law on Changes to the Penal Code, a change to the Law on Protection from Domestic Violence should be made to give legal definition of family scandal in order to be able to distinguish family scandal from domestic violence. I know I'm a little petty, but as we go along with that logic, we'll be loading the courts with similar cases. With whatever love the countries gather to live together, perhaps with several times more passion they separate. And then each side is an enemy, and it's an enemy that uses every means possible. In these funds they are supported by their closest friends and relatives. It will be difficult to establish the truth there, because I will not use the word of false testimony, but the exaggeration will be significant. I've witnessed cases like this, and as a lawyer, I have to tell you honestly that in order to win the case, any lawyer would have that in mind. The other one. It seems to me that with the proposed changes, the sanctions that are being imposed are extremely high. They can stay that way, but we should always take into account that domestic violence is usually linked to some prior relationship. There's a build-up there, a build-up that at one point escalates. Very often domestic violence is caused by the victim himself. It has to do with some physical superiority, basically, and one of them lost his temper. I think that, in a situation like this, we need to be able to sort everything out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u28	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. Are there any lines? Mrs. Karayancheva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman! Mr. Stoyanov, thank you for your thorough analysis. You said a lot of true things, you went deep into the Bill. There is a definition of psychological violence, it may not be enough, it may need something to add, but I think the path we are walking on is right and you will agree. The example of the rose I gave was the lightest because I don't want to burden the hall. You are all witnesses to what is happening, and the examples that give us thousands and thousands of victims. Mental violence will prove itself to be the same as crime. You are right that there will probably also be abuse, you will try to abuse this concept, but right here, we are the people, you lawyers, I am not a lawyer, unfortunately, but you are the lawyers to look at every comma, to specify every word of your personal experience, because you are the experienced people, you have been to such cases. It's another thing I missed. Incriminating domestic violence, we also help children because they are our future, we educate them in this family. And the family, when it is unhealthy, when violence is being exercised, in time, this child has seen nothing but violence, it will become a kind of abuser when he grows up. I accept your remarks as a leic, but I appeal: let us do exactly such a thorough analysis and accept the various facts so that we can make a good law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u30	Thank you, dear Mrs. Karayancheva. Second line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u31	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Stoyanov, I would like to take an opinion on an aspect that you marked in your speech. It concerns a change in the relationship of the investigation to the act. You have explained in detail how delicate intimate relationships are and in fact, they are intimate. True, love, preference is easily converted and turned into hatred and persecution. But I wanted to stress the following: we are aware that we are going to load, we are definitely going to load the state investigation, the investigative bodies with a huge amount of cases. Yeah, co-counsel lawyers will abuse it. Yes, we have commented that this will be used repeatedly as an overture, as a prerequisite, as a prior action in the divorce process. We're giving a heavy task to the investigation and to the Criminal Court, no doubt. What is important here is that we are trying to open these relations and establish access, opportunity, protection, mainly protection, through the state's coercion of these relations, protection that covers innocent victims, victims of various forms of domestic violence. I'm not going to stop saying, "Surely, this is a big challenge!" Not for three months, we've been working on it, I'd say, for over three years! And we turn to all our colleagues: all the suggestions for a definition come in, we have the opportunity to discuss them and we will be happy to discuss them! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u32	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Is there a third line? No. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Stoyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u33	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! I mean, we're thinking one way. I think we're all well-meaning. I believe that victims of domestic violence should be protected. Not only protected, the main goal should be to reduce the cases of domestic violence in Bulgaria. My personal concerns come down to not hurting innocent people. And that's the main thread in my speech. I hope I'm getting this right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u34	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoyanov. We continue with the speeches. You have the floor, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u35	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! For good reason, fellow lawyers are having difficulties today at the stand to define concepts of both human and social relations that have not been given in the last three, four thousand years. And that is why I am not optimistic that today our National Assembly or, as the classics would say, the secular authority is able, through civil law, to arrange relations that arose at the dawn of human civilization, when the law of the tribe prevailed when the law of the republican city ruled when tyranny was dominated, when throughout all human history, the family was that form of human civilization that existed outside and independent of political regimes and ideologies. Honourable Members, let us not impose on this bill expectations of giving such results as human or civil or civil law cannot give. For a reason only decades ago, not even centuries ago, the family in Bulgaria was created with the sanction of the church and not with the sanction of the civil law. [[Noise and lines by the United Patriarchs.]] I accept that the honourable Members of the European Union see in this bill an opportunity to promote Christian family values. That's exactly what I'm not sure about! [[Noise. Replies from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] And you're not, Professor! [[Replications from the National Representative Stanislav Stanilov.]] Great! You're just saying that. And you know why? Because in Christian doctrine, the family is built on the power of the father! The family does not consist of the equal subjects of a man and a woman. And the father's authority is not what I want from this tribune to explain how it is done in family conditions! This is described throughout Bulgarian classical literature by Ivan Vazov, through Elin Pelin, so to this day what the power of the father means. What does it mean to have faith in the Bulgarian school and in those hours that are intended for civil education, we explain that our spouse in the family, who needs to be protected from violence, came out of Adama's rib, which is made of mud? Excuse me, the merger of these two notions, I will tell them the original notions of the emergence of man and the cohabitation between man and woman, and the attempt to allow them, as our colleagues from the Holy Synod would say:......................... the human law. seems quite limited to me as opportunities! That is why my speech has one single purpose to protect us from the illusions that through this law we will create the perfect Bulgarian family. This can't happen! Secondly, I am not aware of the purpose of the proposed changes to the Penal Code and the expectations that are being assigned, not for other reasons, but because we do not need to bend our soul. However, we all support these changes under the influence of other circumstances, which are outside our parliament, outside Bulgaria. What is the purpose of this bill to strengthen the family? By introducing criminal law.. criminal law, pay attention to family relations, which, as the colleagues rightly said, have a completely different character there are love, morality, ethics, mutual respect. And all of this will be regulated with the help of criminal law?! It's not like that. Of course not! Can a family be autonomous in its own regulation of relations? It's a very important question! And how far can this autonomy go? It seems to me that the legislator here is facing a field, an undeveloped territory theoretically and practically. And correctly, fellow lawyers in the stands said that here the court will really be in need of both the process of the investigation and the whole process of the proceedings. He will have to deal with topics that cannot be regulated and described in the Penal Code. Well, they can't be described! There's no way! My colleague, Mitko Stoyanov, rightly said, there is no way that love and that relationship and the history of relationships and jealousy and all that you can put into the Penal Code. How's that gonna work? This is an attempt for us to meet the requirements of time, which are often not rational and do not understand enough in family relations. I agree with my colleagues from the United Patriarchs who said with reason that there is another family tradition here that this is not an Anglo-Saxon family tradition that this is not a Catholic family tradition. The family tradition of Catholics doesn't need to explain what the father's power looks like, does it? We've all read literature, watched art films and so on. By adopting this bill, we still need to be aware of what we aim with it to protect the weaker member of the family, at all, against violence in the family? And if it's in the family, why are we talking about domestic violence, that is, where is the definition of home in this case? Because the question arises.. everyone will ask: where is the home, what is the home? The home is the physical place where family relations take place, or home is the other context of the family, such as the family hearth, as writers said. There, for a reason, the outbreak is described as the family's place. Let's not go into literary analysis! So where is the modern home of the Bulgarian family? The one parent who works on constructions in Europe, the other one who somehow earns his living in Sofia? Where's home? It is therefore about family relations, about family as a place where violence can be committed. Then let's talk this way. I speak outside the context of law, because law can only partially solve this issue. In this spirit, I want us to protect ourselves from a delusion. This bill is a continuation of neoliberal understandings, not their denial, Mr. Shopov! It is a continuation of neoliberal understandings of the family. The family, which may consist of two members of a different sex, and at the same time have offspring. The family in which one parent can exert violence on the child, the other to protect the child with violence, right? All of this is possible to happen. Therefore, the main objective of defending against violence, as at least I imagine it, in the Bill seems quite poorly argued. Violence will be difficult to remove from the family with penal measures, because the violence in the family where it exists is not the result of anything else, but from the terrifying, often socially degradable conditions of life in Bulgaria, from the initial inequality between the two sexes, from unemployment and misery at home, from children who cannot be bought basic tools for school, from the possibility of one of the parents being seduced by good material prospects and to destroy their own family. Today's society affects the Bulgarian family and destroys it with the cruel conditions of Bulgarian primitive capitalism. And this thesis, fellow Members, you can find it in the novel by Elin Pelin. There is a description of what happens to the family when capitalism begins to be created in Bulgaria. There is nothing to be fooled by the pressure and where the violence in the Bulgarian family comes from. Because of the lack of money, because of the lack of social perspective, because of the unattended children who were left unsupervised by the parents who work abroad and all that. But we should not have the illusion that with this text and with several definitions we will solve these issues. These questions cannot be resolved. The Christian nature of the family cannot be strengthened because the character of the Christian, the Eastern Orthodox family, the traditional virtues is quite different and quite different. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u36	Dear colleagues, before I give the floor for lines, on the balcony of the plenary hall is a delegation of the Friendship Group with Bulgaria to the Legislative Chamber of Olli Majliss of Uzbekistan, led by its Chairman Avazbek Talilov. The guests are in Bulgaria at the invitation of the Chairman of the Friendship Group Bulgaria...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[All rise and greet guests with applause.]] There are three lines: Mr. Kirilov, Mr. Shopov and Mr. Valentin Nikolov. Mr. Kirilov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u37	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear colleague Jablyanov, first of all, I would like to be pleased that you have taken an opinion, I hope, as a member of the Committee on Legal Affairs, although with a socio-psychological and historical bias in your speech. You, my colleague, have put things back into theory.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u38	In politics.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u39	No, in legal theory, where lawyers examine the structure of the concept of patter famillias. It comes from Roman law, defines the role of man, only of man as subject of law. In Roman law and society, even women were not legal subjects, that is to say, they were not able to be separate holders of rights and obligations, and I am referring to the very early Roman law. However, I object that this is the meaning of the Christian concept, and I would not like this argument to be used for these relations, because this is a manifestation precisely of stereotypical thinking. You have advertised, you have imposed exactly the stereotypical thinking, which should be without regard to the Istanbul Convention, we will accept it or not, but we must avoid such a stereotype of relations that leads to unequal treatment. You're a representative and a member of our delegation at PACE. There is no way to justify either Christianity or the theory of the Pater family of any argumentation of inequality. Thank you. [[General applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u40	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Shopov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u41	Dear Mr. Jablyanov, it is very difficult to make a line of speech in which I agree with many of the things, but with the least of the things you have said, I agree with most of the things I do not agree with. And I'll start backwards. You presented the problems in family and in couples, as if as a result only of poverty, problems and underageness, and in the richest couples and families arise such problems and perhaps more dramatic, and there is more scary, and there is more radical and more dangerous, in some cases also for men. Not that I read the yellow papers, but you know it. Otherwise, we come in with you on conceptual, principled issues of contradiction. You speak as a propagandist in atheism from the 1950s, the 60s and later on to some who have traveled villages and towns and spoke against Christ and the Holy Scriptures and as a propagandist from the Society of Georghi Kirkov in the later years, coming out and raising the question of the championship of the man and so on. In this regard, we can speak with you for a long time, as we do in the couloirs, but even as you quoted the Holy Scriptures, as all propagandists have not reached the end and misquoted the Holy Scriptures, and the fact that it says that the woman was created from Adama's rib is still pointing out that they are one being, one body, including on the issue that even in the wedding, if you were married...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u42	Your time is up, Mr. Shopov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u43	...or if not, to tell you that the man and the woman combine in the same body, Mr. Zablyanov, that is, this is a unity that in Christianity is placed as inalienable...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u44	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. I hope you graduate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u45	I'm sorry time's up, but otherwise I would have answered you for a long time, punctually, to any of the things that you...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u46	Thank you, next line. Mr. Nikolov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u47	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Zablyanov, I won't, but Mr. Shopov hurts that you came from a party that was trying to impose atheism and that's why you might think so. Of course, there are many who write Christians, but have never read the New Testament. There is a New and Old Testament for a reason, because the New Testament sets other principles and breaks the principles of the Old Testament. You quote the Old Testament, which is the foundation of Judaism, at the base even of Muslimism, because Muslimism is the continuation of the Old Testament. Christianity breaks a lot of these values. Where, in what text of the New Testament does the man have a leading role? Is Joseph more leading than Mary? Where in the New Testament is described the family as a despot, for example, of the man, and you, on top of that, shift the subject. You talk about family at all as value, and we are discussing something else entirely. We are talking about violence because at one point a person prefers physical violence to mental violence, because mentally is much more damaging than physical. You're completely shifting the subject so you can break the value you're looking for here. That is why I say that everyone should not write a Christian before he has read the New Testament and understand its principles because he wrongly quotes and misleads people. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u48	You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u49	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Kirilov, the attitude of the church towards the family throughout the Middle Ages is quite clear. The concept of the patter family in the Roman law to which you referred has been transferred in some form in this type of regulation, in some form! We all know that elements of Roman law still exist today. Mr. Shopov, in the family of the richest, the main reason for violence is the distribution of wealth, and in the families of the poor the main reason for violence is the distribution of misery. In both cases, it is a serious inequality, or as a 19th-century philosopher concerned, with family, private property, and not to mention the last element. The issue of atheism, honourable colleagues, arose as a philosophical current far, far before the workers, socialist and communist parties, but very far before that. Atheism is a denial of theos and it originated during the Renaissance, Mr. Nikolov, and this is written everywhere. The question of a propaganda company by Georgy Kirkov......................................................................................... I want to tell you that this was a very serious company for the dissemination of knowledge in the Bulgarian society, which in today's Bulgaria definitely needs. And what will it be called, it can bear the name of the Prime Minister, for example. But there is a need for such a company, because today we do find ourselves often in a state of deep social and political lightlessness, which must somehow be overcome and obviously cannot serve TV stations and their morning blocks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u50	Thank you, dear Mr. Jablyanov. Any other speeches, colleagues? Here you are, Mr. Rashidov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u51	Mr. Chairman, I'm interested in this subject too. It doesn't matter that I'm an artist. All I have to say is that I was one of the people, along with Georgi Markov, who were against the Istanbul Convention, because it was also a European violence. But! I don't know what values you mean by Christian and non - Christian?! Violence is only violence! Whether it's on Muslims, Buddhists, Christians, it's violence. Violence, however, is not only in the family, gentlemen. Today, for example, I experienced violence on the road. It's no different than the violence in the family. Violence is also found in the workplace. I have one of these folders: "Thormoz and violence from external attacks." They also create serious stress in man. Do we have a law to protect the human individual from violence? Here you cotanize a bunch of words, poverty. Is poverty on the road? [[Replications from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.]] No, not law enforcement, Mr. Zablyanov. Stop playing with this poverty, don't play with it! There are a little poorer people all over the world, a little richer, middle class and oligarchs, as we have been calling them lately. Is that the definition of violence? [[Heckling]] I don't believe it. Poverty is not a vice, but let's not make Parliament a pig, okay?! [[Heckling]] That's what Gogol said, not me. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u52	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Are there any lines? The line, Mr. Pawnov. Please extend the parliamentary group's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u53	Mr. Rashidov, many times we have spoken to you in one particular place on these issues and have heard different opinions from you on this issue. Valery Jablyanov is right that poverty is a very powerful influence. In my view, from the 50-year marriage experience I have, perhaps the biggest one here, I must tell you that love is a very fragile flower, which, if it does not flow with money, fades very quickly. [[Relations, excitement.]] I'm telling you this as a Marxist materialist. It is extremely difficult to live when you are poor, when you are forced to go west to work to support your family. I therefore believe that my colleague Jablyanov is right. The wider the middle class, I think there will be fewer divorces and less violence. Keep in mind I have been asking a question lately: why are marriages not being married and living more and more without marriage, although it is to the detriment of women and they agree in this regard?! Because marriage creates quite serious problems in divorces, because a woman is much safer in divorce, because children always stay with a woman. And I have to tell you, mental violence in marriage is much more severe than physical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u54	Thank you, dear Mr. Pawnov. Mr. Kirilov. Third line, Mr. Lazarov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u55	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Academician Rashidov, with inconvenience I take a replica of your speech because I absolutely agree with the performance of what you said. But what didn't you say? You did not mention that in the analysis of domestic violence within the European Union, the rate of violence in economically developed countries is no lower than in poor Bulgaria. On the contrary, in England, in Scandinavian countries, which are rich both as economics and as family property, violence is a problem. There are many factors that affect the violence in the family's microsystem. It is certainly that property matters, discipline, culture. Everything matters in this micro environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u56	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Rashidov, come in, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u57	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! Today goes a nice debate, as my friend Bikov says. We can say a lot of unnecessary things, but, my dear friend, if poverty is causing violence, I would ask you to ask Oresharski and Chobanov to give me my money back from KTB, even though I don't beat my wife, right? Look, it's complete nonsense to lie down in a single word with the application of the laws that we have to eradicate violence as a whole. Once again, I wonder how you divide violence into homemade, untamed, jargage? It's violence, gentlemen! [[Applause from GERB.]] We must adopt laws and implement laws that do not harm and that there is no violence on the person. That's right. [[Heckling]] In this part I agree to stop violence as a whole.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u58	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u59	For the Istanbul Convention, why was I against it? Look, isn't the child a weak gender, is not the old man a weak sex, is he a weak sex and a man sometimes? [[Radio, lines.]] Mental harassment of a man is no less than a man against a woman. It's the same thing, colleagues. [[Heckling]] That is why I agree to talk about laws, but I agree as a parliament to force the power to exercise the law. The only democratic justice is the law and nothing else! The law is the most democratic form, it is a string of democratic rules that protect the dignity of homo sapiens. I'm surprised how serious men tape a common concept of cassettes: today for the child, tomorrow for the grandmother, the next day for the grandfather?! There's a very aggressive problem on the road, there's fighting, pushing, killing. On the street, the arrogance of opposition people. I'm telling you: I'll show you a file like this soon. I didn't say a word. It's physical, mental, and all kinds of personal harassment. That's what we need to stop with the law. Some media attacked me for five years, caught cancer wasn't violence without even giving me the right to answer without having the right to freedom of speech and speech to defend myself?! Don't we mean these things, colleagues? [[Noise and lines.]] Isn't that also violence, isn't it mental abuse? I therefore think that this Parliament should seriously consider the Law on Violence. This is a serious topic.. about our whole society, and it has grown out of lawlessness. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u60	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Mr. Bikov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am glad that this debate is being held at a higher level than usual and based on values. Of course, the law won't start a family. The state can't start families. Families are created by people based on love and I agree with Mr. Zablyanov, whom I will paraphrase that love cannot be defined in legislation, there is no such definition. Where the state can interfere with the family, because there are things that it can't interfere with, and the family is one of those things, but where it can interfere, to try to prevent violence. Here I disagree with the fact that the Christian family is based on the physical strength of the father. Because I married in a church and had a church marriage, there the priest says that a man should love a woman like himself. There's no clearer definition of violence than that. The problem with violence is not in those families who profess Christian values there is no violence. There is violence where there is degradation of values. Unfortunately, violence is passed down from generation to generation. There are children who grow up in a similar environment and then reproduce this environment in the families they create themselves. Can the state deal with this phenomenon, which is in a very intimate realm, like family? He certainly can't do it 100%. There will always be a possibility, because there will always be people whose values have degraded to the point of violence in general. It outside the family violence is a symptom of degradation of values. Perhaps this law won't be able to solve all these problems. However, this law is a sign of this, if you will, to hold today's debate and to speak on this subject, which is not small. We have lived in times when this topic was taboo and here I am not only talking about the times of the socialist regime. And so far it is taboo to a large extent in Bulgarian society. It's a complicated process. The fact is that the state must be very careful about how far it interferes with the family. I do not agree with the thesis that the state must create equality everywhere, universally, including in the family. [[Heckling]] I don't believe anyone got married after considering Marx's theory. At least I didn't get married on that occasion. [[Radio, applause]] I fell in love, my wife fell in love, and that's how we got married. We have neither thought about materialism nor about gender equality. In the course of marriage, of course, the forces are uneven. [[Laughter, applause.]] In our family, I'm the weaker factor. [[Laughter, lines.]] But it is! Although our family professes Christian values, violence has never been a part of it. We must return to the tradition of the Christian family, both as parliament, and as people who have the opportunity for a public position, explain that violence is a bad thing, because in these times the line between good and evil is blurry. It also blurs through these rational debates, in which sometimes everything is put on a rational basis: the rich fight for money, the poor fight for misery. No, there is degradation of values in both the rich and the poor. There is no class struggle in this regard, there can be no class struggle in families. Whoever tries to put class wrestling in families breaks down the essence of the family. Although church marriage was actually banned, I don't think that during the times when there was only civil marriage, families were based on equality because socialism had relative equality, but it didn't guarantee happy families. The state cannot guarantee happiness. This too we need to know, in all spheres, cannot create happiness! Happiness is a personal matter, like love, as faith, as hope. I believe that this law will be in the direction of encouraging Christian values that guarantee nonviolence through Christian upbringing, which is the duty of every good family. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. - What's the line? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Jablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Bikov, I agree 95% with your speech, which is another form of agreement on the need for this law. It's completely different from the reasons he was brought in, isn't it? I fully accept that the family is the autonomy of relations and the state with the law cannot interfere forever in these relations. It's dangerous, harmful to freedom, to people, to human hostel, to everything! The question of the father's authority. It's not only violent, Mr. Bikov. You've probably read other understandings about how the father's power is being exercised in the family. The power of authority, the authority of authority is spoken! The authorship can be imposed with anything with ownership, with spiritual authority, with public recognition. This is another type of power. I hope you understand. And the question of who read what before marrying or marrying. Nobody reads anything! To this day, marriages in India are being negotiated. They're negotiating! They don't meet until marriage takes place. [[Noise and lines.]] I am sure that much of the Christian families have not read both the New Testament and the Old Testament as thoroughly as Mr. Nikolov, but this does not prevent them from being good Christian families. At all, the relationship between deep enlightenment and good family and ethical norms and the lack of degradation in society is not direct. I hope we have an agreement on this, too. And finally, the question of public degradation. Here is the key question.. degradate the social and human relations in Bulgaria. Today this is seen by the whole of Bulgaria and cannot strengthen the family only with the Law on Domestic Violence. This is the care of the parliament through all the legislation to expel the violence from the Bulgarian society. I support Mr. Rashidov to expel the violence from the Bulgarian society only with the protection of the universal rights of the individual! Of the universal rights of the individual, of the rights of the citizen something that, unfortunately, does not happen.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u64	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Mr. Bikoff, the doppelganger.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u65	Mr. Chairman! Mr. Zablyanov, I am glad that we do not have significant differences, because these questions are really important, perhaps the most important ones. They are even more important than some laws, which sometimes sound very important, after two or three months we forget them. I agree to raise the issue of the degradation of values throughout society. The fact is that this is the disease, and violence in the family is just a symptom of this disease. Another point is that along with the treatment of the disease, we should also calm the symptoms. So, yes, this law probably won't solve all the problems. But again: we are no longer sure what is good and what is evil is the big problem. There's an evil that pretends to be good, and a good that pretends to be evil, and people get confused. And when they get confused, violence comes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u66	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. You have the floor to speak, dear Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, my speech will aim to return the debate to the specifics of the bill at issue today. I am sure that there is no MP in this House who does not acknowledge the belief that domestic violence against women and children should combat healthy legislative measures and decisions. However, it must be made clear that most often, in addition to women and children suffering from domestic violence, older people are also victims, so the scope of domestic violence is large. Or in other words: the most victims of violence in the home are the weakest physical and mental subjects around the abuser. Dear MPs, in discussing the Bill, we step on statistics that unfortunately are quite ruthless, namely that every fourth woman suffers from violence and that 90% of the victims of violence in the home are women. In the interests of objectivity it is appropriate to say that these are European statistics, but in Bulgaria the statistics are far from different. Studies show, however, that the scariest thing is that after a woman, child, or adult person are abused in their home, they face other stress, and that in society and among their loved ones they find no understanding. Violence against women and children in the world and in Bulgaria is massive, but the main problem is that it is neglected and not counted. The scale of violence against women and children psychologically, sexually, and also physical is the most common violation of human rights. With art. 4, para. 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria is declared that our country guarantees the life, dignity and rights of the individual and creates conditions for the free development of human and civil society. Unfortunately, however, violence so far among women and children is not the subject of effective political and legislative measures. Often abused in the country do not know who to turn to, how, who and how to protect their rights. This trend is caused by one, namely the lack of adequate state policy, consistent management decisions to combat violence against women and their protection. The following should be mentioned in this debate: we at BSP support all measures to combat domestic violence. For us it is absolutely unacceptable, we condemn any form of domestic violence. We are certain: violence against women and children must be the subject of effective political and legislative measures, and here is the place, we are the people to accept them. The BSP Parliamentary Group has already proposed amendments to the legislation to resolve this problem, or at least to take the first steps towards its resolution. The focus of our proposals was as follows: a change of character from intentionally caused moderate bodily harm to a close relative or spouse from a private crime to the conversion of a common crime. This will enable these crimes to be prosecuted with the methods of the state prosecution, and also building crisis centers for all victims of domestic violence in the territory of every district in the Republic of Bulgaria, which we believe will provide strong support for women who are victims of domestic violence and their children, and will provide enough shelters for those women, who, as we have already mentioned in the discussion, are not few. We are obliged to provide and ensure effective support. Punishment must be stopped. To this end, both information and political action are needed. We welcome the Bill and, as BSP colleagues have mentioned, we will support it. Of course, we will make our proposals between first and second readings in order to be able to refine the bill under consideration today, but we are convinced of one thing: such actions need our whole society to protect the most vulnerable groups. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u68	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. - What's the line? Mr. Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman! I tried to say something, but you obviously didn't hear. You have your cycles not to have violence on children and women, and you forgot that the rest are people too. I don't understand you! Special tape: let's not beat women. Well, don't throw ashtrays at men! Of course we have to be protected men, women, old men. The man must be protected from violence. You're trying to tape again: let's not beat the grandmothers, then the Children's Law. A man's law, do it! There have been many cases of abused and beaten men, old men, children. What are you talking about, women?! We are all equal, and we all suffer from violence. And I told you before: street violence is no different than home violence. I don't beat my wife, you don't beat your men and the job is simple. [[Laughter, excitement and applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u70	Thank you, dear Mr. Rashidov. Another line? I can't see. A hole? You have the floor for the coat, dear Mrs. Halacheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u71	Mr. Rashidov, my respects, but unfortunately, the bill tabled by your group clearly did not read it or you do not understand what it is about. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] And you haven't listened to my statement either. I was talking here about violence against all women, not just women, but children. Often, I said that even age groups were affected. This is a serious problem, but the specific bill concerns this. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u72	Thank you, dear Mrs. Halacheva. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate and moving on to the vote. I put to the vote a bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code, No 854-01-76, tabled by Tsveta Valcheva Karayancheva and a group of MPs. They voted 137 MPs: for 137, against and abstention there is no. The offer is accepted. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u73	Dear Members of Parliament, we continue with a declaration on behalf of a parliamentary group. Here you go, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u74	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I was just about to give you an example of a classic double standard which we all suffer from in Bulgaria and around the world: a double standard in food, a double standard in relations with people, a double standard in politics, and I just heard something similar, which is once again proof of this. I'd like to introduce you to some information. Fortunately, it is already available on the Internet, it came to me the other day, from the nearest month of September 2013, in which the respected by me and I suppose that of all of you, and as far as I understand, and from a large part of the Bulgarian people, because it is a person with one of the highest ratings in the country, namely Mrs. Maya Manolova says the following. I basically want the BSP group for Bulgaria to hear because it was a member of this group and was Vice-President of the National Assembly at the time. She said and qualified the behavior of the current BSP group as a second-deleted team that cannot play the game and hinders the other team, they have decided to continue to expose themselves to the eyes of all Bulgarian citizens, why are they acting like a Mahlenian football field, they will answer to their voters. We are talking about a statement by Mrs. Maya Manolova regarding the non-registered group of GERB, which was then opposition in parliament. That is, the exact same behavior that BSP and Maya Manolova, as the blade of BSP and the current ombudsman, qualified in this way. According to Maya Manolova, although the perception that the quorum is an obligation of the ruling parties, which is now also claimed, Bulgarian citizens, however, have an understanding that when a person has working hours, at 9.00 should be in place. The rules, which apply to every normal Bulgarian, says Mrs. Manolova, do not only apply to those who... She then refers to GERB, but in this case today she refers to BSP for Bulgaria and this she bruised him from the parliamentary tribune as Vice-President of the National Assembly. They can come or not to work, but to be late is not normal behavior, and no employer, and at the moment our employer is the Bulgarian people, no employer would tolerate such a worker, said Maya Manolova. According to her, voters have sent us the MPs, to discuss important bills, to correct, to criticize the government, to attack the government, but with arguments, with presence in the Chamber. Dear colleagues, I think it has become clear to you why we are here, because we have no way to behave as a second-deleted team who cannot play the game, we do not want to expose ourselves to the eyes of all Bulgarian citizens and because we do not want to behave like a mahlen football field. I would like to congratulate colleague Halacheva, who just made a really strong statement, but that is exactly the problem, colleagues. We are very strong in words and very weak in deeds! If at these speeches, if all these things that Maya Manolova spoke, you were not doing the opposite at the moment, if we were all doing real things so that the Bulgarian people could live better and the Bulgarian state could flourish, we would not be on this mountain right now! We wouldn't care who's in charge. People would look at their lives at all, like in other normal countries and not be so interested in politics, not on the streets, not in front of gas stations. And I'm giving you an example. And that's the real thing: a gas station in Lyulin, but it really shows how the cartel can be defeated! All of you at the time you were ruling, and at the present time you claim that we cannot fight this problem. Well, we can fight it! Is that why we're not allowed into the station? Because we have to keep the cartel in fuel to rob the Bulgarian people! To colleagues from BSP and the Bulgarian people: I consulted and understood, so I set an example with the gas station that you manage, for example, several municipalities and some of them are Kavarna, Tervel and General Toshevo. Well, colleagues, instead of walking with some document and explaining, for example, what is your vision for Bulgaria, do you actually show that if you win Bulgaria's rule tomorrow, the whole of Bulgaria will become like Tervel, Kavarna and General Toshevo? That's it? Is that what we're after? Give an example! Make for example the municipality of Tervel the most golden municipality and go to show it in all of Bulgaria, as I have done a gas station, 300 pharmacies. People see, touch, feel, feel and already choose the vision of the one who can fight, or the vision of the one who speaks very nicely. Yes, I do salute Mrs. Halacheva! Words are good! Evalla! But what about the cases? And I advise you, you will just have a much greater success if one of these municipalities makes it different from all other municipalities in Bulgaria and say: "Here, this is our vision for Bulgaria. If we win tomorrow, all municipalities will look like the municipality of Tervel! But now you're not saying that all the municipalities will look like the municipality of Tervel because it's total ruin! Don't be proud of that thing! I, with everything I've done so far in my life, am proud and say: "Yes, we may not be capacity for everything, but in so important sectors for life, for people. People are grateful we're here. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Yeah, they're grateful. [[Noise and lines.]] And when you walk in Varna, no one knows you and doesn't want to know you, because what you can come out after me and brag about! With the municipality of Tervel or with the municipality of Kavarna? Is that what you're gonna brag about? [[Replications. Calling from the left.]] Because this rude behavior is screaming from the hall, have you ever seen from our group someone behave in such a vulgar manner? Have you seen him? That's your upbringing? Is that the example you're setting? Is this your vision of Bulgaria?Tomorrow so you can shout like a Mahlenian football team? According to your blade, your most prominent person Maya Manolova, with a huge rating approved by the people? And she says you're acting like a second-rate team. Is this the Vision for Bulgaria? Colleagues, get down to the ground and besides nice words learned somewhere in theatre schools, do something real, good for Bulgaria! The bad news is, everyone sees it. Do something good! And then you'll stay in history! Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u75	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. We continue with the next item on today's agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE CULTURE RESEARCH LAW. The report for the first reading of the Committee on Culture and Media will be presented by Mrs. Milkova, who will also make a proposal for admission in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u76	Honourable Members, Mr. Chairman! Procedure for admission to a hall on the grounds of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please be admitted to the Chamber under points 2 and 3, Mr. Rumen Dimitrov, Deputy Minister of Culture.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u77	Dear Members of Parliament, we are voting on a proposal for admission to the House of the Deputy Minister of Culture. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. Please invite Mr. Dimitrov to the hall. Here you are to read the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 854-01-81, submitted by Emilia Milkova on 7 November 2018, and the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 854-01-82, submitted by Danail Kirilov, Diana Savateva, Stanislav Stanilov, Boryana Georgieva, Spas Panchev and Velislava Krasteva on 7 November 2018. During an extraordinary meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 13 November 2018, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 854-01-81, submitted by Emilia Milkova on 7 November 2018, and a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 854-01-82, submitted by Danail Kirilov, Diana Savateva, Stanislav Stanilov, Boryana Georgieva, Spas Panchev and Velislava Krasteva on 7 November 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Culture: Rumen Dimitrov The bill amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act No 854-01-81 was presented by the importer Mrs. Emilia Milkova. It provides that only after the agreement of libraries and archives, whose funds contain movable cultural values, copies, replicas and items of commercial purpose can be made. There is also a gap in the Cultural Heritage Act concerning the regulation of the reproduction of cultural values in scientific editions. At present, the creation, dissemination and use of images of cultural values for personal needs, with representative, educational and scientific purpose is free, with the Bill it is proposed that this should also apply to scientific works and publications. The bill amending and supplementing the Cultural Heritage Act, No 854-01-82, on behalf of the importers was presented by Mr. Daniel Kirilov. The objectives set in it are in the area of movable cultural heritage, to introduce greater clarity in the concept apparatus used, to clear discrepancies in legal texts, and to regulate in a clear way some of the problems arising from its application. The Bill does not affect new and unresolved public relations and synchronises and improves the legal framework for the identification of movable cultural values. The collections of archaeological values declared in the museums, but not identified and unregistered so far, are considered to be reassignable to a museum with sufficient expertise. In this way, collection owners will be allowed to exercise in full their rights under the Cultural Heritage Act. The bill does not require changes to other laws, but it is necessary to develop a new regulation on the order of identification of movable crops values in which to introduce the specific requirements and parameters of the criteria proposed by the Law for determining a property as a cultural value. During the discussion took part the MPs Vezdi Rashidov, Stanislav Stanilov, Krasimir Velchev, Ivan Chenchev, Chavdar Velinov and Velislava Krasteva. Following a vote, the Members of the National Assembly of the Committee on Culture and Media shall: - unanimously, with 13 votes........................................................................................................ - unanimously with 13 votes "for" propose to the National Assembly to adopt a bill for amendment and supplement of the Cultural Heritage Act, No 854-01-82, submitted by Danail Kirilov, Diana Savateva, Stanislav Stanilov, Boryana Georgieva, Spas Panchev and Velislava Krasteva on 7 November 2018. The report is signed by the President of the Commission. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u79	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. Dear Members of Parliament, after the break we will continue with the presentation of the bills and the debate on them. One message: At the initiative of the Vice-President of the National Assembly Veselin Mareshki in the holiday will be opened a charity exhibition of young artist Kalin Asenov. It is dedicated to International Day of Tolerance, which is celebrated on 15 November. All Members of the National Assembly are invited to attend the opening. Holiday till 12:00. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u80	Dear Members of the National Assembly, we are continuing our work on item 6 of the day's program.. Bills to amend and supplement the law on cultural heritage. We listened to the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media before the break. We continue with the presentation of the bills by importers. The first Draft Law, No 850-01-955 of 7 November 2018, was introduced by the National Representative Mrs. Milkova. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u81	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, I will focus on the reasons for changing the Law on Cultural Heritage with the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Cultural Heritage. I propose in art. 177, para. 1 to supplement libraries and archives as cultural institutes whose funds contain movable cultural values. The proposals for this amendment in the Law are imposed by the possibility of reproduction of cultural values in scientific publications which are not clearly regulated in the Law and research is an unattracted part of the cultural heritage conservation process. The issue of quality scientific literature is extremely important for the scientific community and links with educational processes and is important for the very promotion of cultural values. In this way we will facilitate the process of validating the prestige of our cultural and historical heritage both in the country and outside it. In this text of the Law on Cultural Heritage, the use of images for cultural values for scientific purposes is free only for personal needs, which means that the very publication of scientific work comes out of the scope of art. 179, para. 1 of the Act in force so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u82	Thank you, Mrs. Milkova. Will there be a presentation from the importers of the second bill? Mr. Kirilov, you are welcome to present the bill with entry No 854-01-82 from 7 November 2018. You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u83	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The bill aims to synchronise the rules in the field of movable cultural heritage. With the intended change in § 1, point The definition of the concept of identity of movable cultural values is refined. It is characterized as research. The creation of art. 96a, whose para. 1 comprehensively listed criteria for determining one object as a cultural value, each criterion for the different areas of cultural heritage will be developed in a regulation on the order for the identification of movable cultural values. Changes in art. 96, para. 2 arise from the need for cultural institutes and organisations carrying out activities for the identification of movable cultural values to be fully listed in a relevant systematic location, by empowering the identification of museums that possess the necessary expertise to carry out that activity. With the proposed change in art. 97, para. 5 An exception to the general regime of mandatory identification before a transfer transaction is envisaged, suggesting that such identification should not be required for Bulgarian printed books issued after 1805 and for works of Bulgarian fine and applied art in all its varieties created after 1900. The purpose of the change is to stimulate the cultural exchange and trade circulation of books and works of art, whose identification is essentially formal and severe. The books shall be identified by their title page, on which the title, author and year of issue are written. The dropping of mandatory identification for artistic paintings and other forms of contemporary art and applied art before a transfer transaction will ease and consequently stimulate the popularization of contemporary art. The synchronization of concepts is the basis for the proposed changes in § 3, item 3. 3, § 6, § 8, § 9 and § 10, where the property, possession and possession relations are described through the legal figures of the owner, owner and holder, which follows the classification according to the property law. The change in § 12 is imperative given the lack of synchronization in the legal texts concerning cultural values acquired outside the country. In the current law acquired outside the country cultural values are not identified and registered according to art. 97, para. 6, but the legislator has not set a specific order for their exports, and the general regulation of Section 6 regulates exports and temporary exports of only identified cultural values. Overcoming this discrepancy requires the proposed change. At the same time, Bulgarian citizens who acquired cultural values from auctions outside the country will be encouraged to bring them in and socialize them here, not to store them abroad. In § 13, which amends Article 13. 146, para. 3, it is explicitly stated that movable and immovable property acquires the status of archaeological values of the relevant category after their identification, which is in line with the overall philosophy of the Cultural Heritage Act. Paragraph 14 changes are made to § 5, para. 1 of the Transitional and Final Provisions, such as the change in c. 1 is dictated by the fact that the current text by mistake refers to art. 97, para. 5, which is not relevant to the matter at hand. With the change in t. 2 is entitled to redirect the application for identification and registration to another museum, which is determined by the fact that from the requested registration on 10 April 2010. 107 collections with a final registration certificate are only 17. This is according to data from the Ministry of Culture at the end of 2016, which is why the owners of 90 unregistered collections were deprived of the right to dispose of their property. With the new provision, applications for registration may be redirected to the cultural institutes and organisations provided for in the Law, which have the necessary expertise, and this requirement is laid down in the intended change of art. 96, para. 2. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u84	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We are going to discuss the two drafts. The first one is No 854-01-81, submitted by the National Representative Emilia Milkova and the second one is No 854-01-82, submitted by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Diana Savateva, Stanislav Stanilov, Boryana Georgieva, Spas Panchev and Velislava Krasteva. Are there any speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u85	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Rashidov for his good work in the Committee on Culture. However, there is a spirit of consensus, of understanding. Therefore, we in our parliamentary group will support both laws. In our view, the Law on Cultural Heritage submitted by Mrs. Milkova is extremely necessary due to the manifestations of promiscuous use of images of the work of the authors and property of the holders of values, without permission of the owners, founders and holders of cultural values. In our view, this bill should not, however, be allowed to violate the Copyright and Related Rights Act. Again: we support this bill in principle at first reading, but we reserve the right to correct ourselves between first and second readings if it turns out to be such a danger. We support both laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u86	Thank you, Mrs. Yotova. A line? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A very short line to Mrs. Yotova. As I said: yes, and thank the Commission for the good work on the proposed bills. I thank the Ministry of Culture for their opinion we have received. I must draw attention to what was said in the opinion on the proposed new para. 3 of art. 179, according to which the creation of images of archeological real cultural values in mosaics, wall paintings, rock paintings are carried out in compliance with the regulations for their preservation and needs further precision after the indication of the reasons. Thank you and I hope that we are all working fruitfully for such precision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u88	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there any other lines to Mrs. Yotova's statement? I can't see. Mrs. Yotova, there are no other lines for you. You will not benefit from the right to dodge. The word for speech is Professor Stanilov. He's one of the importers of the second bill.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u89	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! First of all, on the first bill that I'm not an importer of. What Mrs. Nona Yotova said is right, right. I'll just fill in a few words. It's about the copyrights of the founders and the registrars of these monuments. Because you can't use the one you found with the tip of the feather or with the top of the shovel an archeological monument... To some extent, he has copyrighted it to publish it. After the publication, everyone has the right to use it freely, as stated in the Bill. That's the way it is all over the world. That's why the catalogs of the big exhibitions speak when they give an image of such a monument, below it says: "Unpublished." Everyone abides by the rules of this monument until it comes out with a publication. That's the first one. With a working group of fellow specialists on the problem, I will amend this paragraph. He's pretty much in his other part, as I often say. Under the second bill, the Ministry of Culture has a number of notes that are correct. The legal department this time, unlike other times, has done its job. In improving the Law between first and second readings these notes can be taken into account because it is important what the Ministry of Culture says. There is only one § 3, which I have missed, for which I apologize, to read it carefully at first reading and have signed it. It is contrary to the definition of archaeological monument in the same law. It goes against the Constitution, it goes against the Constitution, and that's why it has to be canceled. This is the part of the Law that says what is an archaeological monument and that, after it is registered, is a monument of national importance, which means that any treasurer who has destroyed an unregistered Thracian mound is more than half of the monuments in Bulgaria can not be persecuted within the meaning of the Law because he has not destroyed such a monument. This thing needs to go away. I don't know how it got in, I don't know who the ideology of this job is. As far as I was talking to Danny Kirilov, he didn't realize the wickedness of this whole text. I think that's easy to fix. For the rest of the Law, which I think is perfectly acceptable because it concerns trade in contemporary monuments of art, will tell you Vejdi Rashidov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u90	Thank you, Professor. Are there any lines to Professor Stanilov's statement? I won't. Mr. Rashidov, you were given the word by Professor Stanilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u91	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! I'm not gonna make a statement, I'm just gonna define what this law means, which should have been done a long time ago. I have also said that to our committee for years we have been fighting illegal and illegal trafficking of cultural values. Of course, there were no laws to regulate this relationship. We have signed agreements with many countries on the channels through which we are constantly searching for Bulgarian values from all countries. For years Bulgarian collectors were perceived as enemies. The professor clearly and accurately said he is an experienced man in archaeology that the crime is between the treasurer and the land, for the simple reason that the land is exclusive national property and the crime is committed when you search the state property, you extract, you do not register and hide it. Everything else under the Law is a conscientious buyer. We have been in § 22 for years from which we need to get out, and today we are taking a good first step to legalise, it is no coincidence that I say the word "legalize" the collections, because if we do not do this, we encourage the channels for export of cultural values. They work, we have nothing to hide, we don't have to pretend to be people who don't notice that. Through this law, we allow for the legitimization of cultural values that are cared for, financed and owned by certain people. It is this legitimization that illuminates where there is what and it is much more dignified and easy to control by the state. The state must have its own control over values. You know, as a minister we were looking for dishes from Sotheby's shopping houses, from Greek commercial houses, soon some gold coins from Switzerland, we returned 21,000 antiques from Canada, personally I carried them into suitcases. So this is a first step. What do I agree with you on this, colleague? That this is a bone system with which, thank God, I thank you for the fact that we have started to liberalize and legitimize Bulgaria's values. Yes, of course, this law is a law for a living organism and in time, God forbid, it is still good to work this committee, for the sake of national culture we will correct certain things, we will see some points that do not work, others work. Of course, this living organism will bring it in the right direction to evolve. Nobody said we were deciding today, and it's a done deal. Of course, the texts that the professor pointed out, yes, all of these are subject to correction again, to look at, together we will do it. Thank you for making a good decision today about the future of democratic Bulgaria and its spirituality and protecting cultural values. Once again, it is your honor that when we talk about national culture, about values, about the spiritual sphere, you forget your party passions and very responsiblely decide the fate of the Bulgarian state in its face, its value system. I just opened a world convention on monuments of culture and tourism. The whole world fell into Sheraton. It's been really good. We are another old country with a very old and very important culture that will help the cultural industry. Tourism is not the hostels we build as hotels, tourism is exactly the cultural values that we work for, colleague. I thank you all for the responsibility you have taken for the dignity you have. I can't help but note it, and I am proud that I have one of the most consensus committees and we work together in the name of Bulgarian culture. Thank you. [[Applause.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u92	Thank you, Mr. Rashidov. I have to ask if there are any lines, although the reaction does not suggest? There are no lines. Are there any other statements on the two bills? I won't. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote separately in the order of the two bills. Please, the Quaestors, invite the MPs from the couloirs in the Chamber to vote. I am voting on the Draft Law amending the Cultural Heritage Act, No 854-01-81, tabled by the National Representative Emilia Milkova on 7 November 2018. They voted 112 MPs: 112, no opposition and no abstentions. [[Applause.]] The motion is accepted. We are voting on Draft Law No 854-01-82, tabled by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Diana Savateva, Stanislav Stanilov, Boryana Georgieva, Spas Panchev and Velislava Krasteva on 7 November 2018. They voted 109 MPs: 109, no opposition and no abstentions. The bill has been passed. [[Applause.]] Congratulations to the President of the Commission, to the entire Committee on Culture and Media. Moving on to the next item on the agenda: THE SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR FILM INDISTria. The Commission report will introduce us to Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u93	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I will present to you the Report on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Film Industry Act No 802-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2018, adopted at the first vote on 8 November 2018. The Law on the Film Industry (prom., SG No. (see Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u94	Are there any statements on the name? I can't see. We vote on the name of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Film Industry. They voted 101 MPs: for 101, against and abstention there is no.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u95	The Commission proposes to create a new § 1: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is The Agency shall be the administrator of aid within the meaning of the State Aid Act for the schemes under art. 26, para. 1. (4) The Agency shall inform the Minister of Finance of the granting of State support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, under the terms and conditions of the State Aid Act. (5) The Agency shall draw up summary information for each scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 and 2, which provides to the European Commission in accordance with the order and within the time limits laid down in the State Aid Act and Article 2. 11 point (a) of Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty (OJ L 187/1 of 26 June 2014).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 652/2014'. (6) The Agency shall collect, maintain and store information on the actions it has carried out in providing state support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1. The period of storage of the information shall be for a period of not less than 10 years from the date on which the last individual State aid or de minimis aid was granted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u96	Are there any speeches on the proposed new § 1? There are no speeches. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to create a new § 1 with a text presented by the rapporteur. Voted 103 MPs: 103, against and abstention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u97	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 1, which shall become § 2: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 8 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) A new item shall be created. 3: "3." National Committee for Film Distribution; b) Previous t. 3, 4 and 5 are respectively t. 4, 5 and 6. 2. In para. 2 the words "the Agency's Rules of Procedure" shall be replaced by "the Rules of Law Enforcement."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u98	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the revision of § 1, which becomes § 2. 99 MPs voted: 99 against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u99	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 2 which shall become § 3.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u100	Are there any statements on the proposal for a text of § 2? I won't. We are going to vote on the text of Paragraph 2 of the Commission Report, which becomes § 3 on the new numbering. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u101	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 3, which shall become § 4: ............................................ In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 13 the following 1. In para. 1 the word "filmo" is replaced by "video production." 2. Alinea 2 is amended as follows: The Financial Commission shall carry out an expert assessment according to the criteria set out in Article 2. 27, para. 1, t. 3 and 4 and propose to the Executive Director of the Agency the amount of State support for each film production and distribution project, festivals and exhibitions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u102	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal to support the text of the importer and the version of § 3 which becomes § 4. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u103	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 4, which shall become § 5: .................................................................................. Article 15 is amended as follows: Art. 15. (1) The committees referred to in art. 8, para. 1 carry out an assessment of the projects applying for state support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1. (2) The organization of the activities of the National Council for Cinema and of the committees under art. 8, para. 1 shall be determined by the rules of application of the law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u104	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the text of § 4, which becomes § 5 in the version proposed by the Commission. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u105	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u106	Are there any speeches? I can't see. We are voting for the text proposed by the Commission in favour of the text of the Commission, with § 5 becoming § 6. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u107	According to § 6 there is a proposal of the MP Professor Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 6, which shall become § 7: .................................................... Article 17 is amended as follows: Art. 17. Every year the Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria provides: 1. subsidy to the Agency, which also includes State aid funds under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, the annual subsidy amount shall not be less than the sum of the average budgets for the previous year of 7 feature films, 14 feature documentary films and 160 minutes of animation respectively; 2. funds for membership in international organizations, funds and programs in the field of film industry in which the Republic of Bulgaria is a member; 3. means of support to the Agency; 4. funds for funding of national festivals organised by the Agency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u108	Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall proceed to the vote on the text proposed by the Commission in support of the text of the importer and by proposing that § 6 become § 7. They voted 98 MPs: 98, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u109	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 7, which shall become § 8: ................................................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The funds raised under Article 1 (1) (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall be included in the budget of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 December 2013 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulations (EC) No 1605/2002 and (EC) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 96). IMO Res.MSC.98 (2) The funds under para. 1 shall be allocated as follows: 1. to 5 per cent for scheme under art. 26, para 1, t. 2 to finance the distribution of films; 2. to 5 percent for scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 3 to finance a show of films; 3. to 5 percent per scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 3 For financing of festivals; 4. not less than 85 per cent per scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 to finance the production of films, of which: a) up to 5 per cent for films under art. 30a; b) up to 10 per cent for debut films; c) up to 20 per cent for films under art. 28, para. 1, t. 2 where funding is provided by a foreign co-producer. 2. The creation of para. 4. The annual budget of each scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 may not exceed the dimensions specified in art. Point (a) of Article 4 (2) of Regulation (EU) No 652/2014
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u110	Are there any speeches? I won't. We vote on the text by importer, supported by the Commission, in the version proposed by the Commission for § 7, which becomes § 8. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u111	According to § 8 there is a proposal of the MP Professor Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 8, which shall become § 9: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 26 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Alinei 1 and 2 are amended as follows: The State aid to the film industry shall be granted by: 1. State aid scheme for the production of films subject to the requirements and time limits of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014; 2. State aid scheme for the distribution of films subject to the requirements and time limits of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014; 3. a minimum aid scheme for festivals and shows of films subject to the requirements and time limits of Commission Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013 of 18 December 2013 on the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to de minimis aid (OB, L 352/1 of 24 December 2013).), hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 140'. (2) The conditions and procedure for granting the State support funds under para. 1 shall be laid down by the Rules for the Implementation of the Law, subject to the requirements of Regulations (EU) No 651/2014 and (EU) No 1407/2013. 2. In para. 3 in the second sentence at the beginning is added 3. Alinei 4, 5 and 6 are amended as follows: The recovery of unlawful and incompatible State aid or unlawful State aid shall be carried out under the terms and conditions of the State aid law. (5) For State support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1 may not apply: 1. a member of the National Art Commission, the National Committee for the Distribution of Films or the Financial Commission, until the expiry of the term of office of the relevant committee in which he participates; 2. employee of the Agency. (6) Where the powers of a member of a committee under para. 5, t. 1 were terminated early, he could not apply for state support until the expiry of the term of office of the relevant committee in which he was involved. 4. A new para is being created. 7. For State support under art. 26, para. 1 shall not apply to a person related to a person under para. 5. 5. So far, the Al. 7 becomes para. 8 and in it the words........................................................................................................ 26, para. 1.................................................................................. 6. So far, the Al. 8 becomes para. 9 and in it the words "financial assistance projects" of the Agency shall be replaced by "public assistance" under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's, and 1's and 1's and 1's.'
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u112	Are there any speeches on the proposed text? I can't see. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the importer for the version of § 8, which becomes § 9. They voted 102 MPs: for 102, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u113	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 9, which shall become § 10: ..................................................... Article 3 is replaced by the following: 26a: Art. 26a. (1) For State support under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1 may apply to a person entered in the register under art. 19th para. 1 which has no overdue liabilities to the agency and/or overdue public liabilities to the State. (2) The person under para. 1 apply with a project that meets the requirements for eligible costs under art. 54, § 5 of Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 under Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013 respectively. (3) State support shall not be permitted for projects that preach violence, religious, racial or ethnic intolerance or contain pornography.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u114	Are there any speeches? There are no requests for speeches. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for § 9, which becomes § 10. Vote 97 MPs: 97, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u115	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 10, which shall become § 11: ..................................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 27, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Text before t. 1 is amended as follows: The projects applying for state support under art. 26, para. 1 shall be assessed as cultural products according to: 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 4 the words "the management and promotion of the project" shall be replaced by "the management and promotion of the project."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u116	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the proposal of the importer, supported by the Commission for the revision of § 10, which becomes § 11. They voted 94 MPs: 94, no opposition and no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u117	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 11, which shall become § 12: ................................................................................... In Chapter 5, in the name of Section II, the word "film production' is replaced by "video production'.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u118	Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting for proposals by the importer and the text supported by the Commission for § 11, which becomes § 12. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u119	According to § 12 there is a proposal from the MP Professor Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs. The motion has been withdrawn. The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 12, which shall become § 13: ...... 13............................ 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 28 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. Paragraph 1 is amended as follows: In the case of aid granted under the scheme referred to in point (a) of the first subparagraph of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013, the amount of aid referred to in point (b) of Article 2 (1) of that Regulation shall not exceed the amount of 1. production of Bulgarian films, including debut films; 2. production of films under the conditions of co-production with States Parties to the European Convention on Cinematographic Co-production, drawn up in Strasbourg on 2 October 1992. (Rated by law............................................................................................... 30 from 2004) (DV, No. 86 from 2004.), and with other countries with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded agreements in the field of film industry and audiovisual; 3. production of films under the conditions of co-production with the Bulgarian National Television or with another television operator with national scope; 4. pre-production activities for writing a scenario and the creation of a film under point 4. 1.... 3.............................................................. 2. Alinea 3 is canceled. 3. Paragraph 5 is amended as follows: The National Cinema Council shall each year propose a quota for financing debut film projects. 4. In para. 6 words "The size of the funds for the state is replaced by the intensity of the state-owned and everywhere the words "the project' shall be replaced by the eligible costs. 5. In para. 7, in the first sentence, the first sentence is added to this percentage can not exceed 80 percent of the total budget of the film and a third sentence is created: The minimum level of production activity in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria is up to 50 percent of the total production budget of the film.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u120	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on an importer's text, generally supported by the Commission in the version proposed by the Commission for § 12, which becomes § 13. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u121	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 13, which shall become § 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u122	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal for a text of § 13, which becomes § 14 in the version of the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u123	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 14, which shall become § 15: ...... 15.................................................... Article 30 is amended as follows: Art. 30. (1) State support for projects under art. 28, para. 1 shall be provided after a contest, announced by the order of the Executive Director of the Agency. The terms and procedures for holding the contest shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (2) A State aid contract shall be concluded with applicants who have acquired the right to be financed. (3) With the contract under para. 2 State aid shall be granted within the meaning of the State aid law and the date of its entry into force shall be considered as the date on which the aid was granted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u124	Are there any speeches on the proposed text? I won't. We are voting for the text of an importer for § 14 in the version of the Commission and for a proposal § 14 to become § 15. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u125	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 15, which shall become § 16: ......... 16........................................... In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 30a after the word "help" is added to the procedure and finally added to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u126	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the proposed text for § 15, which becomes § 16, as amended by the Commission. 90 MPs voted: 90, none against and abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u127	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 16, which shall become § 17: Seventeen. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 31 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1 after the words of the projects... is added for the production of films.............................................................................................................. is added...................................................................................................................................... 2. Allinea 3 is canceled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u128	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for § 16 on a proposal from the importer, supported by the Commission, which becomes § 17. They voted 93 MPs: for 93, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u129	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 17, which shall become § 18: .............................................................................. In Chapter Five, in the name of Section III, the words
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u130	Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the proposal of the importer, supported by the Commission for the text of § 17, which becomes § 18. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u131	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 18, which shall become § 19: "Seriously, I'm Article 32 is amended as follows: Art. 32. (1) State aid for the distribution of films shall be granted under a scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 2 for: 1. Bulgarian films; 2. films created under the conditions of co-production with States Parties to the European Convention on Cinematographic Co-production and with other countries with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded agreements in the field of film industry; 3. European films. (2) The intensity of the State support for the distribution of films under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 is up to 50 percent of the eligible costs and for distribution of films under para. 1, t. 3 is up to 25 per cent of the eligible costs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u132	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Are there any speeches on the proposed text? I can't see. We are going to vote on the text of § 18, which becomes § 19 by importer, supported by the Commission. They voted 91 MPs: for 91, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u133	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer by proposing the following version of § 19, which shall become § 20: .................................................................................. Article 33 is amended as follows: Art. 33. (1) State support for films under art. 32 shall be provided after a contest, announced by the order of the Executive Director of the Agency. The terms and procedures for holding the contest shall be laid down by the Rules of Implementation of the Law. (2) A State aid contract shall be concluded with the candidates who have acquired the right to be financed. (3) With the contract under para. 2 State aid shall be granted within the meaning of the State aid law and the date of its entry into force shall be considered as the date on which the aid was granted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u134	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We shall vote on the proposal of the importer for the wording of § 19, which shall become § 20 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u135	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 20, which shall become § 21.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u136	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I can't see. We vote on the proposal of the importer for § 20, which becomes § 21. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for § 20, which becomes § 21, has been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u137	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 21, which shall become § 22: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 35 the following amendments shall be made: 1. Alinea One is canceled. 2. In para. 2 the words of the contracts concluded until the repayment of the public funding granted shall be taken into account.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u138	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches on the Commission's proposal for § 21 which becomes § 22. We are voting on this proposal. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u139	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 22, which shall become § 23: ..................................................... Section IV shall be established in Chapter Five with art. 35a "35e": Section IV State support for festivals and exhibition of films Art. 35a. State support for festivals and exhibition of films shall be provided under a minimum aid scheme under art. 26, para. 1, t. 3. Art. 35b. (1) State support for festivals is provided for the creation of promotional materials, film copies, subtitling, presentation and promotion of Bulgarian films at international and national film festivals, weeks and panoramas of Bulgarian cinema. (2) The intensity of the aid under para. 1 may not exceed 50 per cent of the eligible costs under Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013. (3) State support for festivals shall be granted after the entry into force of a State aid contract concluded between the applicant and the agency. Art. 35c. (1) State aid for showing films shall be granted for: 1. Bulgarian films; 2. films created under the conditions of co-production with States Parties to the European Convention on Cinematographic Co-production and with other countries with which the Republic of Bulgaria has concluded agreements in the field of film industry; 3. European films. (2) State support for showing films under para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall be up to 50 percent of the average price of the ticket for the previous year in the corresponding cinema or cinema in a cinema complex multiplied by the number of seats therein and by the number of screenings of the film applied for, and the amount shall not exceed the dimensions set out in Article 3 (2) of Regulation 1407/2013. (3) State support for showing films under para. 1, t. 3 amounts to up to 25 percent of the total revenue from the tickets sold in the relevant cinema or cinema complex for the film concerned, and the amount may not exceed the amounts set out in Article 3 (2) of Regulation 1407/2013. (4) State support for showing films shall be provided on the basis of a project which may include up to 4 films. (5) State support for festivals shall be granted after the entry into force of a State aid contract concluded between the applicant and the agency. Art. Thirty-five years. (1) State support for showing films shall be provided at the request of a person who performs a show of films in cinemas in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria. To the request, the person shall provide the Agency with information on his activities under art. 43. (2) The terms and procedure for granting state support for showing films shall be laid down by the Rules of Law Enforcement. (3) In order to avoid exceeding the amounts set out in Article 3 (2) of Regulation 1407/2013, the aid shall be expressed as cash grants and the figures used shall be gross before tax or other charges. (4) The aid paid in instalments shall be discounted to its value at the time of granting it. The interest rate used for discounting is the discount rate applicable at the time of granting the aid. Art. 35e. For state support for festivals and exhibition of films can apply a person entered in the register under art. 19th para. 1 which does not have any outstanding liabilities to the agency and/or due public liabilities to the State.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u140	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for § 22, which becomes § 23. Vote 92 MPs: for 92, against and abstention there is no. The proposal for the text of § 22, new § 23 is adopted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u141	According to § 23 there is a proposal of the MP Professor Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs: ..................................................... The following amendments and additions shall be made to the Additional provision: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 letter "in" the word "Bulgarian" is replaced by "in" the word "in" is replaced by "in" the word "in" is replaced by "in" is replaced; 2. point 4 is amended as follows: "4." The film is the first short film by a director who has graduated from the semi-annual specialty of television and film directing or animated cinema in accordance with this law. 3. A new t. is created. 5 with the following text: It's five o'clock. The first feature feature or animated film is a film by a director who has realized at least two short feature, documentary or animated films selected in the competition programs of the national festivals Golden Rose and Golden Rhyton. 4. Previously on "T." 5 " 13" becomes pcs, respectively. 6.. 14; 5. Previously on "T." 14 becomes t. 15 and acquires the following text: ..15. The average budget of a feature film is a budget of a feature feature film, calculated on the basis of the expenditure reported for the completed films, including the cost of producing 5 copies for the distribution of the film, translation and subtitling of two foreign languages, as well as the cost of advertising and promotion of 10 percent of the amount of the budget calculated according to the official inflation index for the previous year. The calculation of the average budget of a feature film does not include the low budget and first feature films of the directors. 6. Previously on "T." 15 and 16 become paragraphs 16 and 17 and delete the words "and the budget expenditures of the films in production." 7. So far, points 17 and 18 become points 18 and 19. 8. A new point 20 shall be created with the following text: It's 20. It is a film lasting up to 27 minutes. 9. Previously on "T." 19 becomes ct. 21. 10. Previously on "T." 20 becomes t. 22 and amended as follows: It's 20. The producer is an undertaking within the meaning of Regulation No 651/2014 and Regulation No 1407/2013, which initiates and organises the realization of the film on its own behalf, providing the necessary financial resources and other conditions. 11. A new point 23 shall be inserted with the following text: "23." The producer of a feature feature or animated film is a producer who has realized in accordance with this law at least four short feature or animated or documentary films under the order of this law. 12. Previously on "T." 21 and 22 are respectively. 24 and 25. 13. A new point 26 shall be created with the following text: "26." The film with a small budget is a film with a budget of not more than 60 percent of the average budget for the corresponding type of film. 14. Previously on "T." 23 becomes t. 27 and amended as follows: "27." A hard movie is a film that meets one of the following conditions: (a) whose only original version is in Bulgarian; b) first and second feature feature or animated film of the director; (c) a film with a small budget; (d) short film; e) debut film; (f) documentary; (g) international co-production with a country with limited territory, population and language area; 15. A new t. is created. 28: It's 28. The aid intensity of the aid is expressed in terms within the meaning of Regulation (EU) No 652/2014. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 23, which shall become § 24: .................................................................................. Paragraph 1 of the Additional provision makes the following amendments and additions: 1. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 23 Finally a short film, first and second film of the director, documentary or film with a small budget or other film with a difficult commercial realization is added. 2. A t is created. 24: It's 24 o'clock. The aid scheme is a concept within the meaning of this point. 35 of the Additional Provisions of the State Aid Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u142	Thank you. We are discussing the proposals for § 23, one of which belongs to the MP Professor Stefan Danailov, unsupported by the Commission, and the Commission proposal, which in principle supports the text of the importer. Are there any speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. First, we are voting on the proposal of the MP Stefan Danailov, not supported by the Commission. They voted 86 MPs: 18, against 16, abstention 52. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of the importer, supported in principle by the Commission for the version of § 23, which becomes § 24. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u143	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u144	Thank you. Are there any statements on the proposed name of the division? I can't see. We are voting on the Commission's proposal for the name of the division. Vote 88 MPs: 88, no abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u145	The Commission shall, in principle, support the text of the importer and propose the following version of § 24, which shall become § 25: ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss For State support under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 may apply for a project which, until the entry into force of this law, has passed an assessment of a cultural product and its implementation has not started.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u146	Thank you. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of the importer for the version of § 24, which becomes § 25. Vote 91 MPs: for 89, against none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u147	The Commission proposes to establish § 26 and 27: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssshssssssssssssssssshsssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss.ssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss The State aid schemes under art. 26, para. 1, t. 1 and 2 shall apply from the entry into force of the Rules of Implementation of the Law. § 27. Within one month of the entry into force of this Act, the Council of Ministers shall adopt the rules for the enforcement of the law and shall establish the Rules of Procedure of the Executive Agency. 25 in accordance with this law.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u148	Thank you. Are there any speeches on the Commission's proposal to create paragraphs 26 and 27? There aren't any people who want to make a statement. We are voting on the proposals for a text of paragraphs 26 and 27 of the Commission. Vote 85 MPs: for 85, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u149	Proposal of the National Representative Diana Savateva, made in accordance with the order of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission proposes to establish § 28: ....... 28........................................... 28 In the Law on Cultural Heritage (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 64, para. 3 words.............................................................................. 58, para. Art. 1 and 3, Art. 62, para. Art. 1 and Art. 1 64, para. Article 2 (1) (a) of Regulation (EU) No 1308/2013 is replaced by the following: 58, para. Art. 1 and 3 and art. 62, para. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 200d the words "al." The following points are inserted after point 1 (Commission 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 229, para. 2 words in the cases referred to in art. 196, para. 2 " by the mayor of the municipality concerned" are deleted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u150	Thank you. Are there any speeches? There are no speeches. We are voting on the Commission's proposal to create a new § 28 in the version proposed by the Commission. Vote 87 MPs: 87 against and abstention no. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u151	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 25, which shall become § 29.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u152	Thank you. Are there any statements on this last text from the "Transitional and Final Provisions"? I don't see any MPs who want it. We are voting for the Commission's proposal in favour of the text of an importer for § 25, which becomes § 29. Vote 89 MPs: for 89, against and abstention there is no. The proposal was adopted and, with this, fully on the second vote, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Film Industry, importing the Council of Ministers, on 10 October 2018, adopted on the first vote on 8 November 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u153	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! If I could have a word with you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u154	Of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u155	The bill that we adopted just now and which will become the Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on the Film Industry is extremely important and I would like to thank everyone who worked on this project and my colleagues from the Commission, who once again showed that the Committee on Culture and Media has a consensus. As you have seen, much of the proposals made by Professor Stefan Danailov and the MPs on the left were accepted by us. I thank the experts who attended the extraordinary meeting on Tuesday, because thanks to this extraordinary meeting, called by our President, Mr Rashidov, it was possible to vote today. This bill actually introduces two regulations on the allocation of State aid funds for people who are engaged in film industry and will make it possible to use the funds provided for this year by the end of the year. This is extremely important and I think our colleague Evgeni Budinov will also be pleased. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-15.u156	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Congratulations on the work of the Commission and on the spirit that stands for the preparation and implementation of the bills. Dear Members of Parliament, tomorrow we will continue with our work on the first vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Act on Air Cleanliness and then with parliamentary control. I will introduce you to the questions and ministers that will answer: Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will answer one question from the MPs Aleksandar Simov and Alexander Paunov. Economy Minister Emil Karanikolov will answer a question from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Tsonkov. The Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov will answer three questions from the MPs Desislava Todorova and Alexander Matsurev; Atanas Stoyanov; and Pencho Milkov, Georgi Stoilov and Krum Zarkov. On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly adjourned responses by seven days have requested: - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the MPs Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov to a question written by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Georgi Stoilov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov to two questions with written answer from the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Veska Nencheva; and Ivan Dimov Ivanov and Dimitar Danchev; - the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions with written answer from the MPs Georgi Gokov; and Georgi Yordanov and Ilian Timchev; - the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova to three questions from the MPs Nikola Dinkov and Violeta Zhelev; Georgi Gokov; and Nikolai Ivanov and Ivan Genov; one question from the MPs Manol Genov and Lubomir Bonev; and five questions from the MPs Nikolai Tsonkov and Lubomir Bonev. - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev to a question written by the National Representative Anelia Klisarova. Due to the absence of MPs for respectable reasons, the answer to a question from the MP Jayhan Ibryamov to the Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov is postponed. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov, Deputy Prime Minister of Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva, Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov and Minister of Culture Boel Banov will not participate. That was the parliamentary control message. That concludes the daily program. The next meeting is tomorrow, 16 November 2018, Friday, at 9.00 p.m. I'm adjourning the plenary session. [[PHONE RINGING]]
