ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u1	Good morning, fellow Members! Please register. Cancel registration. There's no quorum. Next registration in 10 minutes. 9:15 p.m.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u2	Colleagues, please take your seats. There's a second registration coming up. Please, Quaestors, inform the MPs from the couloirs. Please, registration mode. [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Ladies and gentlemen, let's say congratulations to the housewives today! Let's wish them good luck and good luck! Here you go, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u3	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Happy Thanksgiving, everybody! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would like to explain why the first registration failed. As you can see, we have enough MPs to hold our own meeting, but [[noise and lines]] Today's first item on the agenda is tabled by colleagues from the Bulgarian Socialist Party, who notice, although they import a point that is important, do not register and aim to ruin the meeting, which should consider their bill. This seems a bit inadequate to me by the BSP! At least register when you import a point to show that you have a commitment to your own Law, and do not wait for us to provide you with the quorum to see your Law! On top of that, your Law doesn't interest us that much! Take an example from DPS colleagues who are currently absent because they do not have a bill, but when they have a bill, at least they enter the room. What you're doing here is funny now! You're being ridiculous! Therefore, as you can see, on the second time we registered, we were able to gather the quorum for us is not a problem. The problem for us is that we have no adequate opposition against ourselves! That's our biggest problem. Unfortunately, this problem will most likely continue for a long time. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u4	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. On behalf of the group Mr. Stoynev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u5	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! It's a beautiful holiday today! Happy Mother's Day! As we have started, if we are to introduce such a practice, we should each wish the names of the days, then, please, Madam President, to follow the Christian calendar and to congratulate the names of the days. You understand that it is insulting for some MPs to congratulate and not for others. So, as Mr. Bikov has started, let's say congratulations to everyone!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u6	I've been following the holidays, Mr. Stoinev, and congratulations. Pay attention!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u7	Regarding today's registration, let me remind all of you, the MPs who run the country that we registered, three people registered. This one, first. Secondly, honourable MPs from GERB, there are no laws of ours and yours! All these laws are for Bulgarian citizens and are voted precisely for the prosperity of Bulgarian citizens. The fact that you want to somehow pass concrete lobbying laws, and then you withdraw, is your job, while we are fully consistent in our parliamentary practice. In no way can I agree that the laws are ours and yours. Of course, the most outrageous is for the MPs of GERB.. statements of a Deputy Prime Minister who insults Bulgarian voters with...... funny work.................................................................................... That's not true for us! For us, this is an example of how some people have forgotten themselves. People who have touched the power do not understand the pain of Bulgarian citizens. People who in no way comply with the problems of the Bulgarian citizens stand most insolently in power, in no way respect the Bulgarian Parliament, let alone other institutions, these people simply have no place in the country's governance! We once said we wouldn't register until Deputy Prime Minister Valeri Simeonov leaves this post, and I don't understand why you're so annoyed. I understand, however, that you are not interested in people's pain. It is very, very unfortunate, colleagues from GERB! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u8	Thank you, dear Mr. Stoinev. The way you're leading it? Here you are, Mr. Atanasov, in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines.]] On behalf of a parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u9	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Today is St. Archangel Michael, and I will remind you of some Bible things: We had eyes and did not see, we had ears, and we did not listen! Colleagues, with these petty ramifications that we are doing today in parliament, with these insults and with these insults between us, because very often we destroy statehood on the day before and on the day before, and not to speak more recently, after all, we destroy statehood. Understand this thing! And another, as the great Cicero says: When the Senate is ashamed, the people go mad! - That's what I wanted to tell you. Let's stop these things, because it's no use to anyone! There's an attack on a position, no offense to entire parliamentary groups, and no offense to a person. This, I think, should be passed on to the more inexperienced colleagues. Please, let's stop this stuff already! [[Noise and lines.]] They're no use to anyone! It's all our fault here. I don't blame a parliamentary group. We're all guilty of this! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u10	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. Colleagues, I'm going to read you a message: In the performance of art. 18 of the Law on the Passage of the Republic of Bulgaria of Allied and Foreign Armed Forces, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, informs the National Assembly that by its order he has authorised the passage through the territorial sea of the Republic of Bulgaria of non-military residence in domestic waters and a visit to the port of Burgas of a ship of the members of the Greek Navy in the period from 9 to 16 November 2018, including. The ship's visit is related to the joint preparation of ships from the Navy of the Republic of Bulgaria and ships from the NATO Permanent Armistice Group within the framework of the Bulgarian-Romanian Armistice Teaching. The notification was received on 2 November 2018, with the exception of: No 803-09-63 and granted to the Defence Committee. You know that today we continue, first, with the proposals under art. 53, para. 8 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first proposal is from the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria. The first point of the day is: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLAINTING THE LAW FOR CONCESSIONS. Importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Who will present the bill? Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u11	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We offer to your attention the Law on Supplement to the Law on concessions, which will extend and specify the general exception to the Law that currently exists. As you know, art. 24 of the Law on concessions excludes certain objects from concessionation, which are in the most general sense objects that relate to national security. We propose to create a much clearer and accurate para. 2, in which to say that no concessions are awarded for the activities, services and premises of those commercial companies which are included in the special list under the Privatization Act and post-privatization control, which has gained popularity as the forbidden privatization list. Our motives are as follows. The reasons why the legislator has decided to leave certain companies to a particular restrictive privatisation regime are similar to those which require their exclusion under the concession regime. These are sensitive activities, services and objects for which the State should maintain a particularly high level of control. At the same time, with the new Law on concessions, the long periods of concessionation provided for in it for 35 years, with the possibility of increasing by one third, create prerequisites for the objectives with which a company is excluded from the general order of privatisation, to be compromised and, in fact, by concession to commit itself to a private matter for which the State had previously decided that it should remain under state control. We are without prejudice to the need and obligation of preliminary analysis and evaluation in any other case. Here, however, we must make it so that we explicitly exclude these activities, services and objects as a clear will of the legislator in terms of their special place for the Bulgarian economy and national security. In this way we will also save subjective assessment of the executive power, which is often, you know, subject to various interpretations. Clearness and stability in relations will be achieved and many conflicting moments will be overcome. With regard to the existing concessions for activities, services and facilities, we propose that they remain effective until the contracts are concluded, but that no other concessions can be concluded. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the committee responsible has not found time to examine this bill, and we are therefore forced today to look at it in the Rules of Procedure directly in the Chamber without having its opinion. That's pathetic! Fortunately, however, the Economic Commission to which it is assigned has done its job and has submitted the Bill of Different Opinions. Stanovits have come from various ministries...........the energy, and they are valuable with their reasoning. The big and key point is as follows: do we believe that the concession is the only way to develop certain, important enough for the state sites to be listed on a special list, or do we believe that our country has the ability, the capacity, the will to develop these sites on its own, so that, on the one hand, they ensure profit, on the other hand, the necessary role of the state in the economy, and by a third country, the security of all citizens? Our position on this is clear! In this sense, we are proposing this bill. I remind you of something that we all know that at first reading, we need to assess precisely this is the philosophy of the Bill, its purpose and its intended way of achieving it. We think we're in the right direction. The Law on concessions needs to be refined in this version, at least because otherwise the impression is created that, on the one hand, the legislator creates a list of laws in order to give a hint to the Bulgarian citizens, and with another law surrounds this list. This is harmful and can lead to disastrous consequences not only for certain businesses and activities, but also for trust in the legislative process as a whole, by which I ask you to support the bill!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u12	Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u13	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Such a change in the Law is necessary for our society and state, and it has been made at this time. First of all, we need to clarify that the Law on concessions deals with matters relating to the constitutional regime of operation for a state monopoly, as well as for a concession of state or municipal one. Although the problems with concessions have been discussed for years, it may now be the last opportunity, thanks to which rules on protection, control and restriction can be introduced in this area. Another motive of ours is that through the proposed Draft Law on Supplement to the Law on concessions, public interest will be protected in an imperative manner by depriving the concessionaire of the possibility of managing a single company through concession from the prohibition list under the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. By means of concessions, the State loses control of the concessionaire, which uses state or municipal property for personal gain regardless of the public interest. I would like to point out that the Members of the National Assembly are obliged to take care of the public interest, not the private interest. They are exported to society and public data from the proceeds of the Republican budget from the concessions already granted and they do not say that those who are so committed are in favour of the public and the state budget. The statistics clearly point to the following, I quote: over 700 state and over 1000 municipal concessions are granted to local economic operators without prior proven experience to operators, that is, we provide state and public resources for ordering people who do not know whether they are ready and potential to manage it, nor do we know how they will manage it. The Law thus in force creates the possibility of hiding the privatisation of companies from the prohibition list under the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. The public interest requires us to create such conditions for concessions that they are subject to clear rules to protect companies from the prohibition list in all cases. That provision in the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on concessions aims to support the prohibition list, namely not to concession companies that have structurally determining importance for the economy or high public and social importance, because the concession creates opportunities for hidden draining companies from the prohibition list. The fairness and honesty of the concession process are explained in the focus of our society, because through this process state and municipal resources pass into private hands. At the present time, when the remaining sites for concession are few, the interest in those on the prohibition list is increased. Therefore, we must not stand by and turn the arrangement into a means of protecting public interest. The proposed change aims to preserve the financial balance of the State and municipalities against the risk of excessive interest by the concessionaire and to avoid the risk of maladministration of public resources. Last but not least, I would like to point out that the proposal for change aims to preserve the competitive environment. In accordance with art. 55 of the concession law, the concession award is initiated not only by the concession, but also on a proposal from the economic operator, which allows it through related parties to win the concession and to master a particular economic sector or a larger, legally permissible market share. BSP believes that it is in the interest of the Bulgarian state to retain ownership of strategic sites and not to allow hidden privatisation by concessionation. Members of the National Assembly must be directly interested in the quality of public services and we are the only ones who can create an effective control tool for concessions and be directed to the public benefit. Dear Members of the National Assembly, I believe that the draft amendment and supplement to the Law on concessions is applicable and is in sync with the rest of the legislation, which is why we are asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u14	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u15	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Baychev, with my line I actually want clarification and clarification. In this regard, I would like you to answer the following questions. What is the relation of the ban list to the Law on concessions? Secondly, how do you imagine a property which is in the capital of a commercial company and is not State or municipal property to be subject to concession? What is the comparison of your proposal to the Law on State Property, the Law on Municipal Property in relation to the Law on concessions? I think you've got the law and the law wrong. Okay, you raise this legal standard as a declaration, but it is not in this law at all, because it cannot be applicable at all and there is no link between the ban list in the privatisation law and the concession law. That's not gonna happen. It can't happen because a concession, I'll explain it even more simply to the concession of corporate property can't have. The concession is on state property or municipal property. That's why I was very surprised by this bill. It was difficult for me to read it and I sought its systematic explanation and connection with both the legislation and with the Law on concessions to not speak, but with both directives which regulate the requirements for concessionation. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Abort, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u16	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Baychev, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u17	Dear Mr. Kirilov! We have waited a long time as committee chairman to allow this bill and to discuss it in length, in detail, but I don't know why you didn't do this thing. Like you said, you probably didn't get it. What we want and maintain as a thesis is that this ban list is being circumvented through the rest of the legislation, including the Law on concessions. Given that we are trying to protect the public interest, we are proposing this amendment in the Bill. Whether you vote or, as the colleague said, you are not interested in our laws, understand the state and public interest, this will show the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u18	Thank you, dear Mr. Baichev. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Danchev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u19	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will try to be brief because there are a few very brief questions to which, I think, we all want to get an answer from the government and society is set to hear these answers. Colleagues, I wonder why the government doesn't want to make the simplest decision to privatize the airport? He wants to give it to a concession. The answer is very simple: Sofia Airport is on the ban list of the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. In a word, what you're doing is directly circumventing the law. You offer a concession for 35 to 48 years, and that means that our generation, respectively, your generation, will not know what a profitable airport is in state hands. The public is still waiting for us to answer the question: what requires to be committed to the concession airport, understand that the airport should be privatized after it is a profitable enterprise, pays dividends and the money remains in Bulgaria, in the country. The answer for me is clear.. and this enterprise will be privatized in the same way that all other profitable enterprises were privatized years ago in order to collect the profits from someone else. That's how banks and mines and factories were privatized. So now the privatization of the airport will pass. But the most important thing is what happens to national security? Here, once again, I turn to the United Patriarchs. I ask: the investor who will take the airport, if he is from a neighbouring country, will he not know who will enter and leave Sofia airport?! Isn't that part of national security? Where will the services be at this time and what will you explain to us, respectively, what will you explain to your constituents? Therefore, we are opposed by the parliamentary group of BSP in Bulgaria to the concession at Sofia Airport and urge you to support the proposed amendments to the Law on concessions. It is dangerous for the country to be concessionated airport Sofia because it is a strategic site in the Bulgarian national infrastructure, an object of national importance and it will be rented, hidden in the form of a concession of someone's company, which will calculate profits on the back of the state. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u20	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. - What's the line? The line, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u21	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The young colleague must not have witnessed how his uncles and aunts, older than his party, gave a concession to many Bulgarian sites just like that, by the way. By what procedures, who won from them, who took commissions, did anyone find out in this room?! I didn't understand. Now, at the moment when it is not yet clear who has applied to take the concession, we begin to guess if a Turkish firm took it, what would the Patriots do? I wonder what the Patriots would do if they gave it to Turkish? Of course they'll vote against it. Don't put us in this game! However, when you come to reasoning about the services, I wonder where these services are, that they do not consider the concessions that BSP has given. These offices are where they are, and immediately took a story of 350 euros, which will eventually turn out to be given or not given, for which the big scandal has become to defecate the IMRO. And I wonder who told these services to do that to IMRO and why these services didn't deal... [[Noise, lines, cheers.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u22	Mr. Petrov, don't go into this scenario! Let's talk about it. Thank you. Another line? I don't see any other lines. You have the floor for the duvet, Mr. Danchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u23	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov! To tell you the truth, I don't know what uncles and aunts you're talking about, because I haven't witnessed this privatization that we're talking about, but I definitely don't want to be a part of what you're suggesting. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I don't want to be an accessory to such crimes against the state! It is difficult for me to comment on the other words, but I will say that in my opinion, the public is hardly interested in what you do in the United Patriarchs. Finally, I really wonder, who runs the country?! Don't your Deputy Prime Ministers Karakachanov and Simeonov manage the services you speak of?! What prevents them from investigating and requesting an investigation into these procedures and the concessions that you are talking about? Put these questions on them, not on us in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u24	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. We continue with the speeches. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u25	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Please extend the group's time. I'll tell you three words: country, patrimonium, assets. When they are united, when there are assets in the patrimony of the state, it is equivalent to a strong state. With these concessions, you're practically breaking down the state court. Thirty-five years with the possibility of an extension! You have accepted this in the Law on concessions, and not only in terms of property but also in terms of services. I mean, say, there was a concession to be granted legal service for 35 years. Gentlemen, what is this thing?! [[Reply from the National Representative Daniel Kirilov.]] Yeah, it's in the concession law. He's got it! And here is the link, honourable MPs, between concessions and privatisation, because this is privatisation. You give, donate, sell all these assets that should be in the country from which society, people, Bulgarians gain any benefits. You donate them to private hands. That is why it is our law which we have tabled, which you will most likely not support, because it is another policy for you. However, I think that there are still statesmen left in this National Assembly, there are still people who think about their people, and I am sure that they will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u26	Thank you, Mr. Popov. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u27	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, since you paid attention to the time, I feel obliged to ensure that you have three more minutes for the duplicate and to ask the following question again. In your opinion, I quote art. 8, para. 1 of the Law on concessions: With the concession for use a public authority provides compensation to an economic operator....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The same is the case in other types of concessions. That's why I can't understand where this slogan and slogan is, where does it belong in this law?! He has nothing to do with it, because, again, on the ban list, it's about assets that are corporate property. We don't have a public authority there, we don't have public government or municipal property there. I can't understand if you wanted to say something about the Privatization Act, okay.. point that provision there. We discussed changes, you remember, including the State Property Act, and made a bandage automatically with the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u28	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u29	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Popov, there can really be a big mix-up here, and can you explain how assets that are under the patrimony, as the chairman of the Legal Commission of a company...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u30	I didn't say patrimonium at all.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u31	...are now re-indulging the concession for example Sofia Airport. They are also operated by a public limited company and, at the same time, they are granted a concession. This becomes incomprehensible in the arguments that revolve around the Chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u32	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Third line? Mr. Mitev, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u33	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Popov, I also have a few questions for you regarding your speech and that of your colleagues before you. First of all, are we doing this law for a specific deal?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u34	Read!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u35	Secondly, do you deny the concession institute, including, in particular, airport concessions? As I recall, during your management, profitable, non-lose airports in Varna and Burgas were granted a concession.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u36	There are motives for the bill!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u37	As a matter of fact, they are continuing to develop quite well at the moment. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u38	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Mr. Popov's hole.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u39	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kirilov, you quote art. 8 of the Law on concessions, but the Law on concessions three times we discuss it in the previous National Assembly, now after veto, in this National Assembly. The three times we have been against these norms that you are quoting to me here, from this tribune, in the Law on concessions. We said then, and now we repeat it: what is the purpose of this IP of the Law on concessions, which Law is vetted, on top of all that. What are you after? It is clear, and it sees so you will not accept our proposal with regard to the Law on concessions. Dear colleagues of the Patriots, I did not know that you were so concerned about concessions. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] I'm surprised. I'm surprised you have such a deep view of concessions. You've always pretended to be against concessions, but now that you're in government, you're suddenly up for all the concessions. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] For the concession, say, at Sofia Airport, which is profitable for last year with millions of profits that will enter the Bulgarian treasury. You now want to give it to a concession, to privatize it, to wipe it out, to practically give it away. That's what you want to do. [[Noise and lines from OP.]] In addition, Sofia airport is the only one in Bulgaria that matters and is a strategic site concerning our national security. It's the largest in the country. It is the largest in the country and you know it very well. With regard to the reply of my colleague Nedyalkov, yes, they do commit to concession activities rather than assets. I told her in my speech here what the purpose is. Obviously, in Bulgaria, honourable colleague Nedyalkov, with this majority, with this government can do anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u40	Don't stray from the subject! You're off topic!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u41	Unfortunately, anything can and will finally get away with it here, defending this government, those MPs who sent them there to rule Bulgaria, and they are there for their own personal benefit. And that proves it here and the coworkers...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u42	Be careful, Mr. Popov, you say...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u43	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u44	You say things you shouldn't.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u45	Who? Did I say something wrong? I don't think so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u46	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Ermenkov had made a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u47	Aren't the groups taking turns?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u48	Mr. Angelov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u49	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! Colleagues from BSP, I cannot understand why this confidence or security that we, the Patriots, are for this airport Sofia or any strategic site in Bulgaria to be given unconditionally somewhere on concession. We have always been united for having signed concessions, which we believe are to the detriment of the Bulgarian state and this is an undisputed fact for us. [[Reply from "BSP" for Bulgaria ":" There is nothing to be seen. "]] Certain such concessions have been concluded at your time. So don't bring guilt to us because we don't have such a general opinion about the particular case that you are talking about in any way. The example you give of how, you see, the Republic of Turkey would obtain the data from Sofia airport, I do not know what we, the United Patriarchs, have in common with the Republic of Turkey and Sofia airport, do not understand? It just doesn't make sense. It makes sense, however, something else you should recall from time to time when we are talking about protecting information, protecting national interests, national security and so on. It wasn't us, the United Patriarchs, our parties, for 45 years to serve another country and to follow the instructions and everything that Moscow has to say.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u50	Where did you go again...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u51	It was your party, you didn't give up this legacy. We are not the ones who betray the national interests and sovereignty of the state. You've done it. When you've done it or disowned it, say it wasn't right, or just shut up. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I wouldn't be talking if you weren't so active in terms of the concession law that you're proposing connects it with the United Patriarchs. We're almost the concessionaires of the state, which is ridiculous. Because you did these things, not us. The other to remind you when you talk about national security.. what data leaked? Not us, United Patriarchs, we've ruled with the DPS twice. [[Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u52	Tell me about the passports! Tell me about the passports!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u53	We've given each other our opinions. For us, the DPS has always looked at other interests. That's our opinion, you might think otherwise. That's our opinion! We have a right to an opinion. We have the right to an opinion! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] You've ruled with the DPS twice, and you're telling me now that we, the United Patriarchs, are going to give the data to the Republic of Turkey. Well, it's funny! It's funny! [[Noise and lines from DPS.]] You've ruled twice. Even the last time you ruled, the Prime Minister was obviously not from you, but from the DPS, because he was then a candidate for president, supported by the DPS. I mean, you even made a prime minister out of the DPS. And you're talking about national security, about concession data?! It's a shame! [[Applause from the OP. Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u54	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. The way you're holding Mr. Letifov. Before that, are there any lines? I can't see. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u55	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure in the manner of conduct is entirely to you. The colleague didn't say anything in substance on the bill he was looking at, but he brought in half our neighbors, I don't know what scenes and conspiracies, and nothing on the subject. You didn't comment on him, Mr. Chairman! Offensives on the DPS and all that. Who protects national interests, who sells foreign citizenship became clear. [[(Shouts from DPS: "Oooh!" (Applause from DPS and BSP for Bulgaria.)]] Please stick to the item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u56	Thank you, Mr. Letifov. Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u57	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll be very brief. The question of whether to give concession objects which are an element of national security or are on the ban list is a question, and according to how we are going to vote, we will show our attitude towards national security and how the sites that are also on the ban list function. What we want and what we propose to you: The National Assembly as a senior authority of the Republic, being parliamentary, should have the floor in such important decisions that are made in relation to national security objects and in relation to things that are included in the ban list. You know very well that the only way an object can be removed from the so-called ban list is by a decision of the National Assembly. Then, when it comes to granting a concession to such sites, instead of being given in any way in negotiations with relevant candidates in ministries, with employees and so on, they will be given or if we decide as National Assembly that they should be given a concession, they will become the subject of a discussion here in the Parliament, the subject of a decision of the higher authority in the state. This is the point of what is proposed, besides defending national security, raising parliamentaryism, at least a little in this respect, which is said to care for state property, care for national security. If you think about it, you'll see that this is exactly the other meaning of the proposed "maintaining the functioning of these objects precisely for what they are created, precisely for the fact that they are an element of national security, a key element of the economy of the state." Think about what I told you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u58	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. The line, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u59	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Ermenkov, I suppose it's from the years you're older than me, and I'm starting to have this problem, but we shouldn't forget so much. [[Radio.]] I'm recalling part of the debate on the concession law. When we persuaded you to have a decision of the National Assembly on concessions that were over 25 years old, then you said: "Abbsourd, you cannot involve the National Assembly in these procedures. "You absolutely did not accept such a decision, which is why we amended the first project and the first option. And you said, "Forever and ever." Eternal concessions to be granted by the National Assembly. Once again, I recall an atypical organ. It will also derogate local self-government with regard to municipalities and so on. It is a good thing that the debate is still coming back, that is, your logic is turning around "There is some progress towards the right solution, but this, unfortunately, will also require, Mr President, I will ask for a statement, although I have abstained so far to say what my purely legal and technical considerations are. This can't be a bill. He's not configured correctly in the system... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'll develop it, okay, you don't want me to announce it, I'll develop it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u60	It's still at the time of the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u62	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I can't see. Mr. Ermenkov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u63	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I will miss the trailer you released for your speech, I will not dwell on it, on these three seconds of announcement. Get to the point. Very please, first of all, distinguish between concessions as concessions a universal instrument and what we offer related to national security and a ban list. Let's not mess this up! And since we're talking about memory, I don't know if I make an impression on you as a guy with a lost memory, but I think I remember well. I remember even those times when these objects that you are now trying to conceit, privatize and distribute were built by the people, with the labor of the people and belonged to the people. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And that's what I'm trying to tell you: you need, regardless of your generations, regardless of when you came to power, when you sat here at the bank, and you're supposed to be responsible for the interests of the people who chose you, to conform to those interests, to remember this thing, and not try to create conditions for this property that belonged to the people, to be looted and distributed just like that, under the table. Once again, one of the goals we set is to raise the level of the National Assembly when important decisions are made on strategic sites which are an element of national security, which are also elements of the economic security of the state and are on the ban list. Let Parliament speak its mind and let people hear who for what and how it serves them and what it does in their interest. Otherwise, every other thing here that we're starting to talk about is a waste of time. Moreover, I will finally tell you that whether it will be state property or will be given only for operation, ultimately everything depends on control. Unfortunately, I don't see it with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u64	Thank you, dear Mr. Ermenkov. The speeches continue. Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u65	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! As promised, I will try to speak only legally under both the Law on concessions and the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. First, because until now at least four or five times it has been said Sofia airport, Sofia airport, Sofia airport will start with this. If the purpose of this bill is the concession procedure for Sofia airport, then, colleagues, write it explicitly or find in any way such a norm that is relevant only to this case. To be clear about the factual and legal situation, I will say this: I also verified it with colleague Ivaylo Moskovski, who was until recently Minister of Transport. The first thing I asked him is, what happened to the airport property certificates? Because, as the district manager of Sofia, Mr. Zarkov, I want you to listen to me because obviously you are a second importer and few colleagues will understand the factual and legal complexity of this case. [[Heckling]] That's what I do, but I don't get your attention. Sofia Airport has an act of public state ownership. Public government property! Sofia Airport as tracks, such as land, as terrain, as a collection of land with facilities is subject to a Public State Property Act. You, obviously, are concerned because, as such an object, yes, it could be subject to concession under the Law on concessions, but I stress that this asset, which is public government property, is not imported into the capital of the company. [[Noise and lines.]] You won't solve anything with a line, colleague Popov. Try to follow my lead. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u66	Proceed with the text.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u67	In Sofia Airport there are no tracks, there is no concession object, so divide the two things. I'm saying this because of this: you wrote the ban list. On the ban list are commercial companies, i.e. respectively "Sofia Airport" EAD. If your problem is the concession procedure at the airport as public government property, it has nothing to do with the company. In addition, I recall saying it and my colleagues had to refer to three meetings before Parliament and the Legal Commission discussed both the State Property Act and the Privatization Act and post-privatization control. Then I invited you, fellow lawyers from the BSP, to give the strictest regime of security, of restriction, of the inability to have an order through an advance of any asset included in the capital of a commercial company, and you participated. I believe that colleagues who participated in the working group participated in good faith. Now, what they were saying in this House, this is another matter now, but I think that this result has been achieved by that amendment, fellow Members. You should respect that now, because the bill, as you have given it, is out of place, has no effect and has nothing to do with the wishes you post from this tribune. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u68	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. - What's the line? Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u69	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Kirilov, my line is to you. She has several reasons. First of all, you said you'd only speak legally. Unfortunately, we've misplaced the forums. At first reading we talk about the purpose of a bill. Four months in your committee we have been legally unable to have this conversation, and for that you are personally responsible as chairman of this committee. This is not only what you did not send for an opinion the bill to the legal community so that they could say what they meant and what they could say as criticism of the legal technique for the purpose we are pursuing. I argue that the legal technique is correct and does not concern only Sofia airport. If we are talking about Sofia airport because it also concerns it, I remind you that for Sofia airport the BSP parliamentary group special June month submitted a draft decision to stop this procedure because it is harmful because it is opaque because it should not happen. You rejected him. Dear colleague, because you say that nothing is true, I will give you both our motives for that project and the transcript of what has been said so far so that you know that we for Sofia airport have spoken many times. We'll pronounce ourselves more! And this bill aims to prevent the overall trend of this legislation, which you rightly mentioned, of the privatization laws and of the State Property Act, which have been vetted, which have been discussed several times and which are looking at only one "state" as much as it can get rid of companies that in economic and state-owned logic are profitable for it. So there can only be two criteria, and they are not legal at all. One is that the state does not care about the management of the state property is simply annoying, and the other is the one who wants to benefit someone. I don't believe you're not interested in management, since you're clinging to it as hard as you can, I'll give you the second one. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u70	Finish your statement, Mr. Zarkov. Thank you, dear Mr. Zarkov. Second line, Mr. Danchev. Third line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u71	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I think we are looking at a proposal for amendments to the Law on concessions which refer to the Law on Privatization and Post-Privatization Control. I will speak as a member of the Transport Commission and the previous statement I made was also a member of the Transport Commission. I am not an expert in legal matters, but I ask myself: what is the point of the ban list in the Privatization Act? In my speech, as an emblematic example of such circumvention of the Privatization Act, really Sofia airport was given. If you have paid attention to this ban list, it is very long, but it starts with BDZ and is second place namely Sofia airport, so we give this example, but the question does not only concern Sofia airport. So I ask: what is the point of this list? What does the introduction and presence of an undertaking on this list mean? You, as a lawyer, explain it to me because I'm an economist and I don't understand your legal logic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u72	Thank you, dear Mr. Danchev. Third line? You have the floor, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u73	Thank you, Mr. Chairman! Dear colleague Kirilov, I expected you to be more detailed and more careful in your speech. I expected you to make a historical and legal review of previous, similar concession procedures for two other airports, which I believe are no less important for national security, which are at the eastern border of our country.. the airports in Burgas and Varna, which were granted a concession at the time of the management of the so-called Triple coalition by BSP, DPS and NDSV. I believe that when we ask the question of national security, then we should ask: when and where was national security placed in these two concession procedures? Furthermore, I expected you to point out to BSP colleagues that, at the meeting of the Legal Committee, they never once wanted to include this law as an item on the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u74	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I don't want to do the duvet, but I'll give you a minimum back-up. Mr. Mitev, the truth is that I was not interested in whether airports were concessionated at the time of the Triple Coalition and whether the airports Burgas and Varna were between them. Transport specialists said a total of 17 concession contracts were concluded at the time. I don't know how many conceit procedures there were. That is, at the time, obviously, this method was practiced. The president didn't return the concession law back then. By the way, if we go that way, then the amendment of the Law on concessions from the Triple Coalition provides for the first time that the bold decision to compensate the concessionaire for unachieved traffic, but these are heights of other legislation that we do not intend to reach. Regarding Mr. Danchev. Actually, he's the only one I wanted to do a douche bag on. I ask Mr. Danchev, you may not be a specialist in law, the area of your competence to be another, but my request is: look, see with your eyes and check in the so-called ban list of the Privatization Act what exactly is forbidden there. And, accordingly, draw your conclusions and your conclusions. Please note that property, property, public government property, is off the books. We have a general ban on all handling transactions there. The only exception is the concession. The only exception! They cannot be included in the capital of commercial companies, including they cannot be deported or anything. It is as if in the municipal company, which used to be a Parking and garage, now the City Mobility Center, to include the municipal streets, which are public property on which the CGM operates parking. No, streets are public government property. To my colleague Zarkov, I'll pass on the answer. In my opinion, he has contributed nothing to more than what we have said so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u76	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u77	Mr. Chairman, you always take my word for it five seconds before the end.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u78	Mr. Kirilov, I'm signaling everyone five seconds before the time is up, no exceptions. Any further speeches, fellow Members? Here you go, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u79	Dear Bulgarian citizens, for the fourth time we ask the issue of the concession at Sofia airport with different legal forms: request of inspection by the Court of Auditors, Draft decision of the parliament for suspension of the procedure and now a legislative initiative for change in the Law. The conversation and the debate started in the legal plane, but this is not a legal issue and it is not a legal dispute. This is a political issue, and it is a very big and very serious political issue. Because whether with an import or not, whether with public assets outside the turnover, whether with an increase in the capital of commercial companies or not, shares or an asset regime, the question is as follows: do we want the state to have ownership and control over strategic sites of the Bulgarian economy, infrastructure and national security? Modern Europe has long solved this problem in Germany, in France, in the Czech Republic, in Austria. The national security sites, the water infrastructure, the railway infrastructure are state-owned. Please note, honourable managers, that the candidates, at least those who have so far declared a request for concession at Sofia airport, are all with state or municipal majority participation. The big question is: does Europe, in particular, and Bulgaria, continue to move towards the country's refusal of all functions and their transfer to private entities, the refusal of national sovereignty, the withdrawal of borders and the continuation and deepening of globalisation or the return of the state to strategic sectors, the pursuit of national identity, national sovereignty and national borders and countries? That's the big question. You can see that the world and Europe are beginning to decide it in the direction we propose. This is also a question of transition, fellow Members, because you are again putting the question back as to which government gave what to concession and how it did it. It is no coincidence that we have been trying for almost two years and seeking consent to say an end to the transition that we have all been guilty of. There are no innocents in this job! Don't just transfer to one party or another. This is also a major political issue. Because in this transition, everyone has found a different way to get to the state to withdraw from its main functions. Whether it will be with concessions, whether it will be with privatisation, whether it will be with advance contributions, whether it will be with a game in capital and increase and decrease, this is the result. Our concern today is not in legal technique and not whether the text should be in the Law of Privatization or in the Law of concessions, our concern is for the state interest and how it should be protected. As to the question: what is a concession and is there a place in modern economic life? The concession is a modern, modern form of property exercise or rights grant that we respect. It has a place in the current and future economic, political and financial life and world, but not where it concerns state, national interest, sovereignty and care for Bulgarian citizens, in this case we are talking about Bulgaria. Next, how exactly do you answer the questions we asked you with the concession at Sofia airport, when in the terms of the concession you have recorded that in war, national catastrophe, crisis, God forbid, disaster the State must warn the concessionaire to wait six months and then pay compensation for requesting termination of the concession and use of its national airport in order to protect its national territory, its national interest and its people? You're gonna wait six months for him and then you're gonna pay him for it?! How are you going to protect Bulgaria and the people during the concession when you have granted the right to the future and to whomever it may be, to determine its own airport charges? He can lift them 10 times! Who will pay them again the Bulgarian people and travelers through Sofia airport?! How do you keep the national interest after you have recorded in the conditions that if Bulgaria decides that there is a need for a second airport, that there is a capacity for a second airport, it should ask the first. If we don't have to pay him compensation again, much higher than what we're going to get?! Where's the national interest? Why do we mostly address the Patriots and they wonder why? Because, my dear Patriots, this is a flag of your ideologies and a program not since yesterday, not today, you have developed an entire campaign, an entire ideology. However, the basis of the fact that there should be no concession at all, that foreign investors and concessionaires are colonists, that they are thieves of Bulgarian national property, is your essence of patriotism, I will now put it in quotes. That is why we are addressing you to support us in this case. Because Mr. Siderov wanted revision of all concessions, notice! From whom? From Valeri Simeonov? Neither of them did anything about it. And don't say we don't know how you're going to vote on this because, fellow Members Patriots, you already voted last night and authorised the concession at Sofia Airport. The State Budget Act states that the government gives Sofia airport a concession, against which it receives 800 million. lv. revenue on the revenue side of the state budget and you supported this. You've already agreed to the concession. We leave you as a hope for partnership on the topic of national interest, patriotism, sovereignty and role of the state in the economy and in the protection of the interests of its citizens. You are unable to meet our expectations, but the procedures are not exhausted. We will try with the legal forms with which the rule of law enables us to refer to the Supreme Administrative Court for the decision of the Council of Ministers, which has taken the decision on concession. We will address with a request for a meeting with President Radev, who returned the Law on your concessions with veto; who also returned, with veto, the Privatization Act and post-privatization control with which you distribute assets to state companies; which is consistent on the subject of national security and which has them in its powers. We will seek legal institutional support through the court, through the presidential institution too, to conduct this policy, which I will sum up in the end like this: national sovereignty, care of the state for objects of strategic importance for the national interest, care for the Bulgarian citizens. BSP is making this commitment! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u80	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. A line or a statement, Mr. Vesselinoff? Line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u81	Dear Mrs. Ninova, I'm taking a line for you to answer and correct the dialogue. I think the main issue that raises the bill is not for the country's place in the economy. The main issue today in the Chamber is: can BSP write and submit a decent bill? It is good to produce and inflate balloons; it is good to exploit topics that are sensitive to society; however, it is good to have the corresponding capacity so that you can materialize them as a bill and accordingly place them correctly. It is good that you borrow these from the books of some of our leaders. And it's a good thing you're introducing them. The bad news is you're making it look like a cheap imitation. Ideally impotence always shows, and when you act like something you're not, you also see it. The colleague before me has already raised the question where is your assessment of your concessions, about your past? First, deny them, then try to set a new course. Say: yes, let's not go back to those 45 years, yes, we were wrong by giving the concession airports Varna and Burgas. We were wrong when we were accomplices to privatization when we produced the laws on mass privatization, the Law on Privatization through RMDs, but they are your case anyway. Give yourself an evaluation of the past, then try to be mentors to us, the Patriots. Right now, you're proposing that we pass a wooden iron law. We can't pass such a law, Mrs. Ninova. You're offering us to make mandatory rules of the Road Traffic Act, for BDZ, let's say. Please write normal bills to rely on our support, as by the way, you had it when you had decent initiatives.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u82	Thank you, Mr. Veselinov. Another line? Second line, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Lilova. [[crowd cheering and laughing]] Mrs. Ninova, I wanted to remind you that as Deputy Minister of Economy you were in the government. I would like to ask: have you been involved in procedures for granting concession to strategic sites? I'm asking if you were involved, maybe you weren't. The other thing you said simply does not honor you as a person who held such a state post to claim that the main airports in France, in Germany, were not granted a concession. How can such a thing deceive and mislead the audience?! [[(Laughter) Replies from the BSP for Bulgaria.)]] You said something that totally freaked me out. [[(Laughter) Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.)]] Yeah, very funny, Mr. Sasho! Mr. Sasho, the one who cracks with laughter... [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) (Laughter)]] You said that for two years BSP has been different, and we have to comply with that. Okay, are the multimillionaires and oligarchy left in BSP these two years in your party? [[Reply: "On the topic. "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u84	On the subject.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u85	Yeah, that's right. The question is: how do we stop digging into the concessions that have been? On the contrary, we want all concessions to be reviewed again and especially those in which you participated if you participated. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u86	Your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u87	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. To these questions Mrs. Lilova, I mean Ninova, I suppose she'll answer me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u88	Thank you, dear Mr. Petrov. Is there a third line? Mr. Tsonev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u89	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was impressed by Mrs. Ninova's request on behalf of the parliamentary group and the party, which leads that BSP will defend national sovereignty and so on, not to mention everything. I don't doubt it. Mrs. Ninova does what she says without irony. However, I would like to ask: will it be so consistent in all laws where we transfer national sovereignty? Because soon a BNB law will enter, where you will see that this is a fact, the appointment, the change of the governing body will be appealed in European judicial institutions and not in Bulgarian. There is a one-month public discussion on the proposals for a change to the BNB Act, which transfer sovereignty to the European Central Bank, in relation to what I have criticised, and not only by me - by many economists, an agreement with the European Commission to enter the waiting room of the Eurozone. There is a full transfer of sovereignty. All asset assessments will be carried out by the European Central Bank, not our bank. My line is this: we will monitor how you will vote there and how we will defend interest there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u90	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u91	Mr. Tsonev, national sovereignty is national sovereignty and whether it goes through bank laws, airports or concessions is the same. When we say we're gonna protect him, it means we're gonna keep him safe through the various options of experimenting on his assault. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] As far as fellow Patriots are concerned: I have not participated in any quality decision making for concessions in the past, but I declare on behalf of the BSP for Bulgaria that when the time comes to make decisions about the future, we will cancel the concession at Sofia Airport, however much it costs and whatever it requires of the Bulgarian state, because this cancellation will be a protection of the Bulgarian national interest.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u92	Thank you, dear Mrs. Ninova. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Siderov, Mr. Gurnevsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u93	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mrs. Ninova, especially for you, I bring this work. [[shows]] , where to continue to copy, except from the plan Siderov. That's the score... [[(Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Valeri Zablyanov.)]] No, hold on, Mr. Jablyanov! Hold your peace, calm! This is an account of the draft decisions, legal changes and declarations proposed by the.................................................................................................... This is the forty-second National Assembly. Some of you were in it. In 156 working days, Ataka then proposed 31 bills, 9 of which at second reading, 25 draft decisions and three declarations. Notice, there was then a coalition of BSP and DPS. There are colleagues here from GERB who put us in this coalition, only this book disproves all these slanders that "Attack" was then involved in power, because none of our proposals was accepted by the ruling BSP and DPS. Not one! In addition to a moratorium on the land from which you then denied the recommendation for the sale of agricultural land, you remember this odystic case in which BSP and GERB voted together, then the next two days they gave up their own vote and said they had gone wrong. I will now read you some of our proposals, which you, your party has rejected, Mrs. Ninova. Proposal for the minimum pension to be 500 BGN [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Listen up! On February 20, 2014, the cabinet of Oresharski, supported by the DPS, with ministers of the DPS, the cabinet of Oresharski: Plamen Oresharski, Prime Minister of the BSP, rejects the proposal of the Ataka (the minimum pension) to be BGN 500. The next offer rejected by... [[(Reply: "On the topic. ") Loud noise.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u94	Guys, be quiet! That's the introduction to the statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u95	The proposal was rejected with the votes of GERB, DPS and BSP. Month February 2014 "Attack" proposed the minimum wage in Bulgaria to be equal to the average minimum wage for the countries of the European Union......................................................................................................................................... Third proposal: 20 February 2014 "Attack" proposed removing the flat tax and moving towards progressive income taxation "Costed by the votes of GERB, BSP and DPS." Next proposal: 20 February 2014 And so is he. "Attack" proposed the termination of existing concession contracts for gold mining, rare and precious metals. Something I've been talking about for 15 years. You weren't in politics back then, Mrs. Ninova. A rejected proposal with the votes of GERB, BSP and DPS. Here is the Triple Coalition, which managed 2013 and 2014. "Attack" suggests VAT for bread, medicines and textbooks to be zero per cent "Costed by GERB, DPS and BSP." "Attack" offers food products that are produced on the territory of Bulgaria, to reduce their VAT by half and to become at the rate of 10% by the same Triple Coalition GERB, DPS and BSP. Should I read more? One hundred and fifty-six proposals, Mrs. Ninova! Your party rejected them one after the other. When I offered to terminate the gold concessions, you were against it. When I suggested getting rid of CEZ, EVN, E. ON Those who took the Bulgarian energy and profited from it still, you were against it! You called us everything! You called us a non-systemic party! Now you speak in our words! Now you're stealing our ideas! At least tell me you're stealing them! Say: "Thank you, Mr. Siderov, for writing this so that we can copy from it! " [[Giving the book. Loud noise. Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u96	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. There was a line for the speech by Mr. Popov. Second line from Mr. Jablyanov. [[The National Representative Volen Siderov comes out of the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Siderov, you are so quick to get out of the room, but you are talking in the past time. Now what did you do? Now what kind of book are you gonna write? You seem to be missing material to fill out this book. And one question: you are obviously not going to answer because you are not going back to the hall, you are running quickly: are you going to support the concession at Sofia airport? Thanks for the historical flashback. The past is over. She and your party will soon be finished! Thank you. [[Loud noise. National Representative Volen Siderov enters the Chamber.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u98	There's a second line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u99	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Mr. Siderov, Members of the National Assembly! Thank you for the recommendation, for the materials you gave us. It is a little far-fetched to be called labour, but it is obvious that the work of many people is behind this...... of your parliamentary group and of the............................ so we will treat it with due respect. You should not worry and be embarrassed by the fact that you supported the government of Plamen Oresharski. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This government has also done good things for Bulgaria in its mandate, as all governments cannot be appreciated with just a plus or a minus. Do not make a political asset by taking different positions in a very short time, because society has a memory. "Attack" is a consistent political force in its request to defend the very left-wing political values. Here, you and I can find a point of contact. We can even partner, there is nothing wrong when it is for the protection of the national interest, the Bulgarian agriculture, the prosperity of Bulgarian citizens. That's why I don't understand the crescendo you went out with. The question of the support of the current government. Yes, you give support and compromise with many of the values that you consider to be your and the fundamental values. Bulgaria needs a government. We can't stay without a government because every country has a government. It's more honest in this case to say that you're making a compromise. A small party always has to compromise when it participates in government with a large party. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] And in this sense, let us not be so superficial about these matters.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u100	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov, your time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u101	I am convinced that in the future you will have to compromise, but do it with dignity.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u102	Is there a third line? Third line, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u103	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Siderov, as you mentioned several times the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, you are absolutely right I confirm, so we voted before Oresharski, so we vote after him. Our position on these issues on tax matters, on economic issues, is unchanged. Our program, too. This is how we vote when we are in the ruling majority and when we are in opposition. We don't have any twists. Flat tax is flat tax and when we are in opposition, and when we are in government, the uniform VAT rate is a flat rate, concessions, economic policy instruments - the Movement for Rights and Freedoms is the most predictable political force in terms of Bulgaria's economic policy. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u104	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. You have the floor for the coat, dear Mr. Siderov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u105	Mr. Zablyanov and Mr. Popov! It wasn't a crescendo, it was just a way to show you how things are... what the facts are, because these are the facts. And the fact that a small party has to compromise, let's think about what a small party means. "Attack" was a second political force in 2006. At the beginning of the year, the second after BSP. That's what sociology was showing. All possible efforts were made to be blackened by the BSP by the then BSP, of course, many of you are now new members of this party, but then the BSP did its best, including with the attempt to sentence me effectively, with a penal sentence, with a faked story, only to be hit by Ataka. You remember at the time I was on a run with your candidate Mr. Parvanov. And I remember a prominent activist, he's not among the living, so I won't mention his name, he said, "Well, good thing we got the results, 'cause you were very scared of that runaway then. Yes, that was the way it was, but against Ataka, there has been a black propaganda war all these years, which has never been fought in the history of Bulgaria, against me and my colleagues, but mainly against me, there has been such a black propaganda war that has never, ever been fought in our latest history! That's why you now call "Attack" a small party, but in fact "Attack" has paved the way for you. She showed you how to act, what to do. Left, right ideas, national ideas are that. Yes, we've always been against concessions, Mr. Popov, now I'm going to answer you very directly and clearly because I've always answered that. I am against the concession at Sofia Airport and I will not support it! [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] She doesn't agree with me. I'm talking to me. For the colleagues of IMRO and NFSB, I do not answer what they think. I am talking about me and my colleagues from Ataka. We do not support concessions as a form of economic governance in the 21st century. It's an era of colonial time, but it's our vision. This is a vision of the Ataka Party, which I created in 2005 with ideology. This ideology was not supported by the Bulgarian voters to be Prime Minister and therefore when they ask me now: Why the pension is not BGN 500.Why is the minimum wage not BGN 1000?♪, speculatively and manipulatively, I answer them: ♪ Here, I wanted it ♪ It was recorded over there, but it was rejected in the room. And in the hall was changing the majority of it was GERB, it was BSP, it was on DPS, it was a total, all the majority, all these majorities over the years rejected my proposals, including what does not want bread, water and money. May 17th is a holiday to worship the victims of the genocide of the Ottoman Empire. And that's what you've rejected, dear colleagues, all these years! So yes, the archives are alive. The facts are alive. The memory is alive, but our compromise in the governance now with GERB is not the compromise of what you have all done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u106	Thank you, Mr. Siderov. The dot's time is up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u107	'Cause I'm the guy who, in 1989, participated in the changes of Bulgaria and wanted Bulgaria to be independent, sovereign, economically strong, proud people. All this did not happen because of the BCP's overture, which pushed us into colonial slavery, then the UDF and then all the others who ruled under dictation outside. [[beeping, speaking indistinctly]] And they continue to rule under a dictatorship outside. Because Bulgaria is not sovereign at the moment, Mrs. Ninova!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u108	Mr. Siderov! Thank you, Mr. Siderov. Really, we've been going on a long time!...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u109	What sovereignty are you talking about when you know you can't make one decision? If you are Prime Minister tomorrow, you will not be able to make a single decision without the respective embassies telling you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u110	Please finish your statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u111	This is the pathetic state of our country now!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u112	Finish your speech, Mr. Siderov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u113	And we're trying to help with something, so we're in power. If I hadn't just become a coalition partner, it wouldn't have been Yambol Hospital waiting 35 years! This is the result of the compromise. Thank you. [[Applause by "Attacka."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u114	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Mr. Gurnevsky, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u115	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! During the transition, there were three main forms of relaxation. One is the public-private partnership, the other is privatisation and the third of the main forms are concessions. All observers unanimously wrote thick books that public-private partnership and privatization are at the heart of the criminal transition with which the state lost priceless, untold wealth. Who privatized them, who didn't privatize them, we've spoken enough, even yesterday, of this tribune. There'll probably be a check sometime. In the Commission of which I am a member, I have proposed that we propose to the National Assembly that the symbolic transactions of the transition be checked, that there be no statute of limitations for them, and where there is a crime taken back to the State. Isn't that right, General Simeonov? And all members of this committee, of all parties, including the BSP, supported one such discussion in the National Assembly. For me, an element of national security is not only Sofia Airport. The maritime fleet, the river fleet, is also a sure element of national security. They're an element of national security, aren't they? To our friends from DPS: wasn't Bulgartabac a security for the population you represent? For the people? And the International Fair as a commercial face of Bulgaria, set up in 1891, and not by any of them, but by the builder of modern Bulgaria, one of the builders, the largest "Stefan Stambolov," is not national security? And all this disappeared with privatization right at the time when BSP was ruling, and the Deputy Economic Minister for Privatization was the leader of the Bulgarian Socialist Party. Isn't this all national security? And how did we lose all this? Let's answer these questions. During the management of BSP for Sofia Airport, the Kuwaiti Fund condemned us with $70 million for the incompetent management of BSP. Seventy million dollars! Thirty million leva at Sofia airport burned in KTB. Is this how you will rule if you come to power and restore government? That's how you rule! The numbers, the numbers are talking! But let us now focus in particular on this topic, with which you constantly frighten the Bulgarian people, with your fictional news on the concession at Sofia Airport. All air transport specialists, I have worked at an airport and I have this information, and in all these years they are unanimous that the development of Bulgarian air transport, at the Bulgarian airports and Sofia, and Varna, and Burgas, and Plovdiv, can be successful and to pursue world trends, European trends only if they are committed to extremely serious concessions. This is the only possibility of developing these airports. Air transport is increasingly being imposed on a European and global scale. He's getting more and more up-to-date. Bulgaria is falling behind these trends. I ask you: the development of Bulgaria and, respectively, at airports is not an element of national security, or will there come a time when our airports will be so impersonal and backward in the trends that there will be no one to land in Bulgaria? Can't you see that just 300 km away, a 150 million-year-old airport was built in Turkey? There's about 6 million going through Sofia Airport. You can imagine, if we fall behind these world trends and in the development of these airports, people will land 300 km away and across the Black Sea is even closer? This opportunity to develop our airports if we miss it, if we miss the opportunities for concession, after ten years here young people will ask: who sold Bulgaria's national security in the field of air transport? When we talk about the concession at Sofia airport, I do not know who were the consultants at the concessions of Burgas and Varna. This is good what happened there because they are developing, but for the airport Sofia consultant for the future concession is not just anyone but the World and European Development Bank. Are any of you going to be able to deny these institutions the main consultants for the concession offer? What kind of loss of national security are you talking about? Ladies and gentlemen, who was at an airport, knows that the runway, the plow, is state-owned inviolable property. No one can land and take off without the state having control of customs controls, border controls, any kind of control is under the jurisdiction of the State. The main activity of an airport is the Air Traffic Management Unit, which controls flights not only over Bulgaria, but on a European scale. This is also under the control of the state. What kind of national security do we lose here? It is granted only to ground handling, but if a concessionaire comes, and therefore it has to be very serious the competition and tender to come concessionaire with its destinations, with its civilian flights, with the worldwide cargo of goods, it will have only an interest in developing this airport, it will benefit from these activities. He will come back with the activities that will develop the airport. Now there are six million passengers, becoming ten million, what the concession provides, he will be obliged to build a second runway, cargo terminal, ground handling. You're talking about 800 million, Mrs. Ninova, but this is the one-time concession fee. Let the people hear the project has a 15 million annual contribution. Multiply 35 times 15, you can count, you've done privatization, you know how these things stand. Count them and see how much money we're talking about. Plus a few billion investments. Is Bulgaria in the next 10 years such a resource to invest and chase European and global trends? Apparently, there isn't. Why is concession the safest form? The concession has the term they set at the competition. The concession has a requirement for investment. You don't make those investments. The concession is terminated. Someone is developing a serious company for you on a European and global scale, and after 35 years it is in Bulgaria with all its prospects in development. Well, it's been 30 years! Right? Something better than looting the state with criminal privatization. When this country robbed itself, don't blame these people, legally and in fact they were gone, but many of you are here. I don't want to politicize, let's be more modest. The concession that will be discussed here is the only possible form and guarantee that the state is developing and protecting its property. Very simple reasoning and frightening people, but all economic estimates of leading specialists in the field of this transport show the opposite of your thinking. Thank you for your attention. Work hard! Stop scaring people with fake news!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u116	Thank you, dear Mr. Gurnevsky. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Are there any other statements? Here you are, Mr. Zablyanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u117	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I come out for a very brief statement in the name of truth, because it is still a tribune of freedom, but the truth must also be borne in mind when spoken. Regarding the moratorium on the sale of agricultural land to foreign natural persons imposed by the Forty-second National Assembly, I would like to remind you that it was cancelled by the Constitutional Court and not by the Parliament of the Republic of Bulgaria or by any other majority. It was dismissed by the Constitutional Court with motives which we are currently unable to look at, but it is interesting to look at, as the Constitutional Court is a separate topic. The issue with the real consultant on the deal at Sofia airport is not the World Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. These are the institutions that have given general guidance on the implementation of the concession, and the real consultant or the one with which the contract was concluded is called the Global Infrastructure faciliti, so when it concerns issues that relate to specific parameters either of transactions, whether of political and parliamentary decisions, it is good to stick to the truth. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u118	Thank you, Mr. Zablyanov. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Are there any other statements? There are no speeches. For the procedure please, Mr. Velchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u119	Madam President, honourable Members! Today, at the beginning of the plenary day, we were all under the impression that the BSP did not want to import or discuss this bill. With the last registration I was under the impression that the people who wanted to support the importer and registered were three. I do not believe that only three people are the people who support the leader of the BSP and chair of the parliamentary group, I think there are at least five. [[Noise, lines.]] To give you the opportunity to correct your mistake, I propose in connection with art. 53 of our Rules of Procedure, let's do a roll call. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u120	We're proceeding with a roll call. Adlen Shukri Shevked - absent Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - absent Alexander Dimitrov Panov - absent Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - here Angel Iliev Isaev - here Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - here Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - absent Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - absent Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - here Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - here Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - absent Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - here Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - here Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - here Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - absent Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova - Guseva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - here Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - here Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - absent Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - here Evgeni Genchev Budinov - here Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - absent Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - absent Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - absent Errol Osman Mehmed - absent Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski - here Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - here Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - here Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - absent Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Yordan Stoyanov Mladenov - here Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - here Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - absent Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - absent Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - absent Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - absent Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - here Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - here Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here Nona Krasteva Yotova - here Pavel Alexeyev Hristov - here Pavel Dimitrov Shopov - here Pencho Plamenov Milkov - absent Petar Boykov Vitanov - here Petar Georgiev Kanev - here Peter Hristov Petrov - here Plamen Dulchev Nunev - here Plamen Ivanov Manushev - here Plamen Tachev Petrov - here Plamen Trifonov Hristov - here Polina Tsvetoslavova Tsankova-Hristova - here One hundred and thirty-eight are present in the hall. We have a quorum. We'll continue our work. Dear colleagues, I am voting on a Draft Law amending the Law on concessions, No 854-01-68, submitted by Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs on 11 July 2018. Vote 192 MPs: 87, against 69, abstention 35. The offer is not accepted. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u121	Thank you, Madam President. As we proceed very quickly to the vote after the roll call check, I ask for a re-vote procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u122	It's a re-vote. They voted 201 MPs: 88, against 73, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Ms. Stoyanova, you have the floor to present the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u123	Thank you. Please allow Mrs. Marinella Petrova to be admitted to the Chamber. Deputy Minister of Finance Mrs. Nina Stoyanova, Deputy Minister of Finance Mrs. Desislava Deyanova and Mr. Kaloyan Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u124	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. We are voting on an admission procedure in this Chamber. Please, voting mode. They voted 104 MPs: 98, none, abstention 6. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u125	♪ I can't believe of the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, No 802-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Vladislav Goranov. The proposed amendments and additions fully reflect the requirements of European Union legislation to the regulatory framework for the Bulgarian National Bank. They will implement the recommendations of the European Commission and the European Central Bank for compliance with the requirements for institutional, functional and personal independence of BNB and the requirements for prohibition of monetary financing and privileged access, as well as the obligation to keep professional secrecy. Therefore, the bill provides for regulation not only of BNB's independence by national authorities and institutions, but also by the institutions, bodies, offices or agencies of the European Union and the governments of the other Member States. As regards the achievement of personal independence, an amendment to the provisions on the termination of the powers of a member of the Governing Council is envisaged and the possibility to refer the decision to the Court of Justice of the European Union on grounds of infringement of the Treaties on the European Union or of a rule of law governing their application. The ban on monetary financing introduced by the Bill is that the Bulgarian National Bank cannot provide loans and guarantees in any form, including through the acquisition of debt instruments, the Council of Ministers, the municipalities, as well as other state and municipal institutions, organizations and enterprises. Changes have also been made concerning the possibility of establishing certain circumstances in a professional capacity, as well as those relating to updating the provisions of the Law. After the presentation and discussion of the draft was held a vote which ended with the following results: 21 votes for the Bulgarian National Bank, No 802-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u126	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Bulgarian National Bank, No 802-01-47, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, there is no abstention 1. The proposal and the bill have been passed. We continue with the next item on the agenda: This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year following the entry into force of Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). Mrs. Stoyanova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u127	♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund signed in Brussels on 21 May 2014 together with the Amending Protocol No 802-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2018. At a regular meeting held on 18 October 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund signed in Brussels on 21 May 2014. together with the Amending Protocol, No 802-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2018. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. As regards the construction of a Single Resolution Mechanism, the European Commission published on 10 July 2013 a legislative proposal for a Regulation establishing uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the restructuring of credit institutions and certain investment firms under the Single Resolution Mechanism and the Single Resolution Fund. As part of the common approach in the negotiation of the draft Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation, Member States have accepted from the Commission's legislative proposal to remove separate elements in relation to the functioning of the Single Resolution Fund and to be divided into an intergovernmental agreement. An arrangement between Member States was also reached to convene an Intergovernmental Conference in order to sign the Agreement by which a Single Resolution Fund is to be established step by step, specifying the mechanism for the transfer of funds from national resolution funds to the Single Resolution Fund and their gradual integration into it by the end of an 8-year transitional period. The obligation to transfer the contributions collected at national level to the Single Resolution Fund does not stem from Union law and cannot be legally based on art. 114 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, which precisely requires the regulation of these matters by an act of international law. The Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation lays down the establishment and use of the Single Resolution Fund and the criteria for determining the pre-financing and subsequent contributions to that Fund. The participating Member States shall remain competent to collect those contributions from credit institutions established in their territories on the basis of the rules of the Resolution and Recovery Directive of credit institutions and investment firms and the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation. During the transitional period, the funds collected at national level through contributions from credit institutions will be deposited in different national accounts (sub-divisions) of the Single Resolution Fund, with a step-by-step and under a certain scheme, the funds under these subdivisions being used each other so that they are fully integrated into the Single Resolution Fund at the end of the transitional period and the national divisions cease to exist. The Agreement was signed on 21 May 2014 at the meeting of Coreper II and the Bulgarian side, subject to subsequent ratification in the light of the provisions of art. 85, para. 1, t. 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria, as in certain hypotheses it provides for State participation in a judicial settlement of disputes and requires legislative measures for its implementation. Following its signature, a procedure has been initiated for a Protocol on the Amendment to the Agreement. The amendment protocol is drawn up in the official languages of the signatory parties and contains corrected references to the text of the SRM Regulation. Following the presentation and discussion of the Bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 13 votes for the resolution, without abstentions and 2 votes, the Committee on Budget and Finance proposed to the National Assembly to support in the first vote a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, signed in Brussels on 21 May 2014 together with the Amending Protocol, No 802-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u128	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Following is the Report of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Mrs. Vasileva, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u129	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe on a bill for ratification of the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, No 802-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2018. At its regular meeting on 12 September 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, No 802-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2018. The bill was presented by Mrs. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The meeting was also attended by Mr. Kaloyan Simeonov, State Expert at the Directorate of Financial Market Regulation at the same Ministry. On the basis of art. 85, para. 1, t. 1, 5 and 7 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria by this bill is proposed to the National Assembly to ratify by law the above Agreement signed on 21 May 2014 in Brussels. The agreement was signed at a Coreper II meeting of 26 of the current 28 EU Member States. The United Kingdom and Sweden have not signed the Agreement. At this time, two Member States of the European Union outside the Eurozone have already ratified the Agreement. The draft law on ratification of the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund is proposed in relation to Bulgaria's preparation for accession to the Single Resolution Mechanism and the Single Supervisory Mechanism. The construction of the Single Resolution Mechanism, a major part of which is the creation of a Single Resolution Fund, is the second element of the banking Union in the European Union. The first element is in the form of the Single Supervisory Mechanism, such as the basic legal acts for its creation and operation, including. Council Regulation (EU) No 1024/2013 of 15 October 2013 conferring specific tasks on the European Central Bank concerning policies relating to the procedural supervision of credit institutions were adopted in October 2013 and began to apply to the banking Union countries in November 2014. All Member States of the Eurozone must participate in the Single Supervisory Mechanism. Member States outside the euro area may participate by establishing close cooperation between the European Central Bank and the national competent authorities of those countries. Regulation No 806/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 July 2014 establishing uniform rules and a uniform procedure for the restructuring of credit institutions and certain investment firms within the framework of the Single Resolution Mechanism and the Single Resolution Fund and amending Regulation No 1093/2010 lays down the establishment and use of the Single Resolution Fund and the criteria for determining the pre-financing and subsequent contributions to that Fund. The participating Member States shall remain competent to collect those contributions from credit institutions established in their territories on the basis of the rules of the Resolution and Recovery Directive of credit institutions and investment firms and the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation. Under the provisions of the Single Resolution Mechanism Regulation, decisions or actions of the Board, the Council or the Commission shall not impose the granting of exceptional public financial support by the Member States, nor shall they prejudice the budgetary independence and fiscal responsibilities of the Member States. During the transitional period, the funds collected at national level by contributions from credit institutions are intended to be imported into different national accounts (subdivisions) of the Single Resolution Fund, with a step-by-step and under a certain scheme, the funds under these subdivisions being used each other so that they are fully integrated into the Single Resolution Fund at the end of the transitional period and the national subdivisions cease to exist. In the subsequent discussion the MPs asked for further clarification on the way Bulgaria participates in the decision-making on the contributions of the funds that are being made and on the state's control over the process of their spending and recovery from and to the Fund. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 4 votes for the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote the Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, No 802-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u130	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. The report of the Committee on Legal Affairs follows. The President of the Commission is already in the Chamber. Here you are, Mr. Kirilov. We've been expecting you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u131	Thank you, Madam President. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law on the ratification of the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, No 802-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2018. At its meeting held on 11 September 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed the Draft Law on ratification of the quoted agreement. The meeting was attended by Mr. Kaloyan Simeonov, State Expert at the Department of Financial Markets and the Ministry of Finance. After a vote was held and as a result of the vote, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the resolution, without the opposition, and 1 vote for the abstention, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt in the first vote a Draft for ratification of the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, No 802-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2018. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u132	And thank you for the résumé you presented to us. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We are voting for a bill ratifying the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, No 802-02-20, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 24 August 2018. Vote 73 MPs: for 72, against none, abstention 1. The bill was passed in the first vote. Come in for a procedure, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u133	Madam President, please, on the grounds of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly to put to the vote a procedure for the National Assembly to vote on the Draft and a second vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u134	We vote on the procedural proposal. They voted 83 MPs: for 82, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u135	THE LAW OF THE ratifying the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund A single member. It ratifies the Agreement on the transfer and mutual use of contributions to the Single Resolution Fund, signed in Brussels on 21 May 2014, together with the Amending Protocol.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u136	Thank you. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting on the newly read text of the Bill. 88 MPs voted: 86, none, abstention 2. The law has also been passed in a second vote. We're about to take a 30-minute break. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u137	Colleagues, we are continuing our work on today's plenary day with: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR FILM INDISTria. Here you go, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u138	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm so glad we finally got to this bill. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]] ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Film Industry Act No 802-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2018. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 25 October 2018, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Film Industry Act No 802-01-38 was reviewed, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives from the Ministry of Culture: Rumen Dimitrov The bill on behalf of the importer was presented by Mr. Rumen Dimitrov. The Law on the Film Industry regulates relations related to production, distribution, promotion and showed the films and state support of the Bulgarian film industry, creating conditions for its development. The proposed legislative amendments and additions ensure the application of European State aid legislation to the requirements of Commission Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 of 17 June 2014 declaring certain categories of aid compatible with the internal market in application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty, hereinafter referred to as Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 and Commission Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013 of 18 December 2013 on the application of Articles 107 and 108 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union to de minimis aid, hereinafter referred to as "Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013'. State aid is intended to be implemented through three schemes. Two State aid schemes, respectively for the production of films and for the distribution of films, which are applied under Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 and one minimum aid scheme for festivals and display of films under Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013. The bill introduces provisions regulating the explicit application of the two regulations while proposing that the conditions and arrangements for granting State support for each of the schemes should be laid down in the Rules for the Implementation of the Law. The requirements that Regulation (EU) No 651/2014 introduces are for State aid under an audiovisual aid scheme of up to 50 million. EUR for a scheme. The European Commission is not subject to notification. The European Commission should be informed where the State aid granted under an audiovisual aid scheme exceeds 50 million. Euros. In this context, the Bill explicitly provides that the annual budget of each production and distribution scheme does not exceed 97 million. 790 thousand. lv. Regulation (EU) No 1407/2013 concerns cases where de minimis aid is not notified to the European Commission. The total de minimis aid may not exceed 200 thousand. EUR for a period of three budgetary years. A partial preliminary impact assessment has been carried out under the Bill, which gives information on the expected impact and the results of its adoption. In their speech the MPs Vejdi Rashidov and Toma Bikov paid attention to the financing of Bulgarian series. People's representative Nona Yotova expressed principled support for the bill, noting that specific remarks and additions will be made between the first and second votes. The Executive Director of ABRO Anna Tanova expressed the opinion that additions should be made to the audiovisual works, a product of Bulgarian television operators. Following the vote, MPs from the Committee on Culture and Media unanimously proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Film Industry, No 802-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2018. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u139	Thank you, dear Mr. Budinov. Do your clearance procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u140	Now I want to do the procedure. On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u141	Thank you, Mr. Budinov. Please vote on the procedure. Vote 77 MPs: for 77, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the Chamber. I open the debates, colleagues, you have the floor for speeches. I don't see anyone who wants to. I'm closing the debate. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Film Industry, No 802-01-38, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 10 October 2018. 90 MPs voted: for 89, against none, abstention 1. The bill was passed in the first vote. Here you go, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u142	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'd like to do one more procedure. On the basis of art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the time limit for written proposals for amendments and supplement to the bill which has just been adopted in the first vote should be reduced to 3 days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u143	Reverse procedure? I can't see. I'm voting on Mr. Budinov's procedure. Vote 97 MPs: 90 against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Thank you, Mr. Budinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u144	Thank you. I would like to take this opportunity to thank all my fellow Members who voted for this bill, regardless of which parliamentary group they are from. I want to tell you that we have worked very seriously with most of the members of the Committee on Culture, the Ministry of Culture, the Council of Ministers and the National Film Centre. I hope that the bill will be adopted so cordially and at second reading and we will still vote on it. I want you to understand this is very important to the people who work in the cinema. Many films, not only Bulgarian, but many international co-productions are literally blocked until this law is passed. It is therefore very important that it is adopted in the shortest possible time. I'll take the liberty of saying a few more things. Bulgarian cinema is a big niche from which the Bulgarian economy can make a lot of money and dividends. Unfortunately, this niche is not 100% used. Dear colleagues, do not underestimate Bulgarian culture and Bulgarian cinema! It employs artists and professionals at a very high level. We all know the difference between film industry and cinema art.. America, Europe, and if anyone does not know, they can read on the Internet, but I want to tell you that in Bulgaria there are all conditions to do both... and cinema industry, and cinema art. I ask for your applause not for me, but for the Bulgarian cinema! [[Applause and cheering: "Bravo, bravo!" by GERB and OP.]] Thank you from the bottom of my heart!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u145	Colleagues from BSP, will you not support Bulgarian cinema? [[(Reply from MP Dragomir Stoynev: "We supported it by voting. We voted in favour of him!]] Colleagues, let's move on to the next item: FIRST MAINTENANCE OF THE LAWPROECT FOR CHANGE AND ACCEPTANCE OF THE CALLED PROCEEDING CODEX. The representatives of the National Assembly are Emil Dimitrov and Danail Kirilov. Mr. Kirilov, please present the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u146	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 854-01-78, submitted by Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 29 October 2018. At its meeting held on 31 October 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 854-01-78, submitted by Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 29 October 2018. The meeting was attended by the administration of the President of the Republic of Bulgaria Ms. Elitsa Obreshkova, Senior Expert. On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Mr. Danail Kirilov, who pointed out that the legislative initiative was dictated by the need for changes in the legal framework relating to Decision No 14 of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria of 9 October 2018, which was given in Constitutional Case No 12/2017. The bill aims to settle the legal consequences of the declaration of unconstitutional provisions of art. 247c, para. 1, t. 3 in the part in the cases of art. 94, para. Article 1 (a) and (b) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 shall apply. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure. Mr. Kirilov noted that in order to exclude contradictions in the law enforcement of art. 247c, para. 1, t. It is necessary to specify the provision by clearly defining the cases where the hearing is postponed due to the failure of a defender. It is envisaged that there is a good reason for not having a defender to be a reason for delaying the case, but that the absence of one will not result in a postponement, with an exception being allowed only in cases of compulsory protection under art. 94, para. 1 of the PPC. Mr. Kirilov pointed out that this will guarantee the rights of the defendants, but at the same time will discipline the appearance of the defender as a party in the process. In view of the reasons of the Constitutional Court's decision, consistency and consistency should be established between the prohibition on a certain type of objection to the content of appeals and appeals and protests. Therefore, an amendment to the provision of art. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 2 of the PPC, giving the cassation and protest an opportunity to object to substantial infringements of procedural rules in pre-trial proceedings relating to admission, collection, verification and evaluation of evidence and evidence. A positive opinion from the Supreme Court of Cassation was received under the Bill. The discussion was attended by MPs Philip Popov, Christian Mitev, Daniel Kirilov and Krum Zarkov. Mr. Popov and Mr. Zarkov expressed their disagreement about the Bill, stating that time should be provided to discuss it more deeply than all interested parties. Mr. Mitev and Mr. Kirilov expressed their support for the bill, with Mr. Mitev noting that it is timely and fully in line with Constitutional Court Decision No 14 of 9 October 2018. As a result of the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 13 votes for the Criminal Procedure Code, No 854-01-78, submitted by Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 29 October 2018.........................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u147	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate, you have the floor to speak. Don't we have any speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure, No 854-01-78, submitted by Emil Dimitrov Simeonov and Danail Dimitrov Kirilov on 29 October 2018. They voted 115 MPs: for 94, against 1, abstention 20. The motion is accepted. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u148	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! On the basis of art. 80, para. 2 of the Rules on Organization and Activity of the National Assembly I propose that we proceed to discuss and vote on this bill in today's sitting, as no objection was expressed, no applications were made for proposals between first and second readings, and in essence there were no contradictions in the debates in the Legal Committee on these two provisions proposed for change.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u149	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. A counteroffer? Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u150	Thank you. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, there really were no speeches here, such were made in the Commission. However, this is about the text previously declared unconstitutional, changed, of course. Let's not get ahead of ourselves. That's why I'm making a reverse offer. Nothing will happen if it is delayed by a week and the MPs are given the opportunity. I see that much of them and are not present here may not have been able to take an opinion, make their proposals between first and second readings. One week more or less won't make this void so difficult. I'm making a reverse offer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u151	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u152	A proposal may be made for a minimum period of 3 days, but let us still have a period between first and second readings. Thank you. [[Reply of rapporteur Daniel Kirilov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u153	You weren't mentioned, Mr. Kirilov, so there's no way for a personal explanation. Come in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u154	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I want a procedure in the manner of conduct to inform you as chairman of the movement under this bill. Indeed, the Bill was submitted by me and Mr. Dimitrov-Revisoro on 29 October 2018 and was viewed on 31 October 2018 in the Committee on Legal Affairs. At the time, colleague Popov objected to prematureness and said he did not have enough opinions. In fact, there was an opinion from the Supreme Court of Cassation, but he insisted that an opinion should also be obtained from the Supreme Council of Laws. I recall that this was last month, on 31 October 2018. We are now November 8th, that is, the Supreme Council of Law had a week and a day to express an opinion if it wanted to. Why, then, is it important to respond quickly to this challenge? I recall here that the Constitutional Court confirmed more than 10 contested provisions in this constitutional case, but for these two expressed considerations which we are obliged to take into account. Now the two standards are not applied, and that would make it difficult for both the court and the investigation. We can't leave the criminal procedure lightly and say: "Let's give an additional deadline." What if in those 20 days, for example, some undisputed sentence falls through?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u155	The weather, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u156	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u157	I'll put it to the vote and the House will decide.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u158	That's how we could support you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u159	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. I'll put it to the vote and the House will decide. Colleagues, Mr. Kirilov, Mr. Popov, I am voting on Mr. Kirilov's procedure to pass the bill today and the second vote. Vote 120 MPs: 95 against 24 abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Mr. Kirilov, please introduce us to the second reading.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u160	Thank you, Madam President. THE LAW OF THE amending and supplementing the Code of Criminal Procedure § 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 247c, para. 2 after the word........................................................................................................ 94, para. 1.................................................................................. § 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No No objection may be made to the cassation and protest of substantial infringements of the procedural rules in pre-trial proceedings, except those relating to admission, collection, verification and evaluation of evidence and evidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u161	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u162	Procedure in the manner of conduct. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u163	We are voting, we are voting, Mr. Ermenkov! I also put to the vote at second reading the name of the Law, § 1 and § 2 which are supported by the Commission. It's not on the Commission Report, it's the way Mr. Kirilov reported it! They voted 105 MPs: 88 against 17, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. First negative vote, Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u164	Thank you, Madam President. I voted against this bill, not as regards the texts themselves that have been proposed, but because these texts have not been able to be discussed here in the National Assembly. There is no such rate of introduction and adoption of bills. It's about a Code of Criminal Procedure, not any law, but a Code. It is said that there was a decision of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria because the Code of Criminal Procedure was once again made, how can I say, non-legal proposals which, of course, the Constitutional Court should have repealed. Again there are quick proposals, on the knee, there is no opinion of those who have addressed the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria, namely the High Council of Laws. There was no opportunity for the MPs to get to know the text well, to make their proposals, although, as I said, to give these proposals a three-day period. The adoption of changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure in one session, especially after a decision of the Constitutional Court, is in itself absurd and speaks of the high level of parliamentaryism in Bulgaria. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u165	Not like that!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u166	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mr. Ermenkov, second negative vote? In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u167	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'm taking procedure the way it is. Madam President, after the other day you allowed a decision of the National Assembly to be adopted in a procedure without being examined by the relevant committees, without giving the parliamentary groups the opportunity to express their views on it, today you allowed a change to be voted on at second reading in a bill without a Report of the Law Committee for Second Reading [[GERB lines]] and without having a Commission meeting between first and second readings, in which to examine and allow for an addition and so on. [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Madam President, in my opinion, this is contrary to the regulations that we have adopted and gives people the impression that we ourselves do not follow the rules that we adopt, and we expect people to be law-abiding and comply with the laws that we adopt in the same way. Please, I would like you to answer my question: do you have a report from the Legal Commission on the adoption of the bill at second reading, or have we now read from a piece of paper on which is the text of the change? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u168	Mr. Ermenkov, there is such a Rule in the Rules, which says that if there are no proposals between first and second readings, the bill can be adopted in second. There were no speeches, no proposals, so I put to the vote the procedure proposed by Mr. Kirilov, so... Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, for a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u169	Procedure, Madam President. Give these rules to Mr. Ermenkov to read it and he will find confirmation of what you say and what almost all MPs, and the newer ones know how to do between first and second. Is there a need? Here, Madam President, give Mr. Ermenkov the rules and finally read them. He's been a MP for a long time. Maybe he doesn't have the rules, but I'm sure he can read. I'm sure he didn't read it either. [[(Laughter) National Representative Dimitar Lazarov submitted to the President Rules on the Organization and Activity of the National Assembly.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u170	You give it to him, Mr. Lazarov, because I'm not a postman. Please! Give it to him. Colleagues, we continue with the next bill: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE APPLICATION OF THE COMMON ORGANIZATION ON THE MARKETS OF EARTH PRODUCTS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION. Mrs. Taneva, please introduce us to the Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u171	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Mrs. Lozana Vasileva "Deputy Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests" and Mrs. Irina Lazarova "Director of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u172	Please vote on the procedure so made. Vote 105 MPs: for 103, there is no objection, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Please invite the guests to the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u173	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union, No 802-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 October 2018. The Committee on Agriculture and Food held a meeting on 31 October 2018, discussing the quoted bill. The Commission's meeting was attended by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests: Lozana Vasileva and Vergina Krasteva, Deputy Ministers, Irina Lazarova, Director of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, Ognian Petkov, State Expert in the Directorate of Planting and Organic Production, and Diana Fileva. The bill was presented by Lozana Vasileva, who pointed out that the main changes are related to bringing the Law into line with the current European legislation. The possibility of challenging administrative acts before the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry as an immediate administrative authority is dismissed. The texts regulating the regime for the application of State aid shall be repealed. The provisions governing the production quotas and the approval of refineries and producers of isoglucose are removed from the Law. The order by which the refineries and isoglucose producers should submit information, the procedure for exercising control over its reliability and the competent authority to carry out checks and impose sanctions on import licences issued for sugar intended for refining shall be determined. A number of changes concerning organic production of agricultural and food products are envisaged. The Minister for Agriculture, Food and Forestry will lay down, by regulation, the conditions and arrangements for trade from a distance with organic products, labelling and control of products originating from catering establishments and requirements for controlling persons. The texts concerning the rules on accreditation of controlling persons and the documents required for the application for authorisation of control activities are revised. The relevant administrative criminal provisions for detected infringements are laid down. Texts regulating the use of the optional term for quality mountain product shall be introduced. The conditions for its use and the implementation of control over its use will also be laid down in a regulation. With transitional and final provisions organically produced foods are added as a separate group of foods in the Food Act. The procedures for the application of public intervention, aid for private storage and promotional programmes related to agricultural and food products are revised. The provisions governing the control system for compliance of fresh fruit and vegetables with applicable market standards are revised. The texts concerning the implementation of the new common scheme for the provision of fruit, vegetables, milk and milk products in kindergartens, schools and centres for special educational support shall be reviewed. The participation in the scheme is intended to be accompanied by the implementation of educational measures. The detailed signature in the Law of the measures included in the national support programmes in the wine sector is removed. As regards the sector, it is intended for farmers to submit declarations of grain production only once a year for all grain production. The transitional and final provisions shall amend the following other laws: The Water Act refines the texts relating to the compensation granted to undertakings entrusted with the operation of the public service to protect against the harmful effects of the water. It is intended to include in the amount of compensation the net costs of the company, the cost of investments and a reasonable profit, the amount of which will be offered by the auditor who checks the company's net costs documents. The Agricultural Academy Act makes legal technical adjustments. In the Law on the Centre for Risk Assessment of the Food Chain, the legal basis for issuing a regulation of the Council of Ministers on the terms and conditions for carrying out a scientific risk assessment is removed. The Tobacco, Tobacco and Related Products Act lists the hypotheses in which authorisations for the industrial processing of tobacco and for the production of tobacco products are terminated. The Food Act establishes a legal basis for issuing certificates of conformity of food with the qualities and requirements for production established by the BDS. The Association of Processors of Organic Bee Products in the Republic of Bulgaria has delivered an opinion on the texts related to organic production. From the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria and expressed disagreement with the changes related to organic production, with the transformation of databases into registers, with the increase of sanctions, as well as with the changes in the Water Act and the Food Act. In conclusion, they said they would not support the Bill, but between the first and second votes they will make their proposals to refine the texts. Following the discussion, the Committee on Agriculture and Foods with 11 votes for the European Union, without the opposition, and 6 votes for the abstentions, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Law on the Implementation of the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union, No 802-01-44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 October 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u174	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. You have the floor. Here you are, Professor Bachvarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u175	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed bill sets quite ambitious goals and they are linked in at least four guidelines: The first is compliance of the legislation in Bulgaria with regulations and changes in European legislation. The second concerns the need to improve the administrative capacity of the implementing authorities and those using market measures. The third, with the easier absorption and access of funds to those which the Rural Development Programme enables to be implemented. Last but not least, maintaining positive trends with regard to operators that fall within the scope of support and therefore have the support through the Law implementing the common organisation of markets. We firmly believe that the objectives thus formulated do not solve any of the issues with the texts that have been implemented, taking into account the fact that some of the proposals are really related to changing the regulations, but the regulations act directly. The main problem, the underlying direction of the changes is related to organic production. We know that there are problems with organic production, we know that there are audit missions, but what is currently being proposed is only to blindfold the European Commission without solving the issues facing the administration, as well as with regard to control. Moreover, in these changes it can definitely be said that a lot of lobbying texts are also lurking and there is a very serious administrative arbitrariness in relation to organic producers. What's this about? Firstly, the proposed changes are monitored and can detect a total abdication of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests from the processes related to the management of organic production. It is required and it is said that the Ministry maintains a Public register of organic producers. At the same time, however, the Ministry is not responsible for what information there is in this public register, which is some absolute nonsense to me for the simple reason that this register is still official and the Ministry should have its responsibilities. Another is the fact that within five days organic producers must register. In addition, they must have some form of electronic signature, which will be a serious problem for small and small producers. These are questions that can technically be cleared between first and second readings. Again, the Bill proposes the improvement of the control and verification system. Next thing you know, the Minister of Agriculture is gone. That is, the Ministry of Agriculture, the Minister of Agriculture in no form participates in a system in which administrative acts can be appealed. For example, the State Fund......................................................................................................... The appeal is before the Minister of Agriculture and only then goes to court, while here it is directly said that if there is a problem with on-the-spot checks, if there is a problem, any related to certification companies and control, it is not the Minister of Agriculture who can rule on these administrative checks accordingly. On-the-spot checks are also very interesting. There is no way to argue with those affected, which means that, for example, within a year they may not continue to work on the simple reason that the whole procedure is too long to realise their intentions. This law provides for a requirement for controlling companies for qualification and number of inspectors. Colleagues, this has already been done once, but we have a Bulgarian accreditation agency, which, in order to give an IS certificate to the company concerned, means that you have specialists here, you have inspectors to respond to. Who needs a second time to ask for the same, but from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests? The issue is obviously rhetorical, but it is a fact that this is written in the Bill as we already have some serious sanctions on the controlling parties here. Also totally not understood what certification and its processes mean. Why is the Ministry even dealing with certification? There is another ministry, another structure that is responsible for certification. Very often or in general, the Bill quotes a regulation: this regulation, that regulation. They are misinterpreted and misquoted. The regulations of the European Commission act directly. For organic production these are Regulations 834 of 2007 and 889 of 2008. The definitions given by saying that they are based on regulations are inaccurate, incomplete and false. The explanation of what a sub-contractor is, especially in organic production, says that these are the only companies on which the restrictions are reduced to processing and storage of organic products. If you see Regulation 889... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u176	Colleagues, please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u177	...there is a description of the processes that include organic production. In no case has the proceedings been excluded from this category. We cannot, in any form, trust, when a bill is introduced, compare with regulations, because someone has felt that so far or will use passages from the regulations to get them into the Law. Or do not insert them, they are applied directly, otherwise we all get in a situation to defend ourselves with the Regulation, but not to apply it the way it is written. Personally, I feel very bad because, when I read: we apply regulation first, second, third, I accept that this is the truth. But the fact that I have found two, three, four errors in the cited regulations is already forcing me to put all the bills into full revision. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u178	Guys, it's too loud! Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u179	I can talk a lot more about organic production. I have until 2:00 p.m. I can talk.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u180	You have time, of course.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u181	But in general, what has been done as a change for organic producers is quite serious racketeering against them, and criminal racketeering. With the Law, we will not solve the problems of organic production, however complex they may be. I'm impressed that five more laws are changing. We've always talked about this being a pretty bad practice. In the Water Act. I've been trying to figure out what a fair profit would mean that would determine an auditor. It's about the Irritative Systems, which every year in the State Budget Act receive some funds for preventive actions, as they are called. It's been 15 million so far. In the budget offered for this year, there are 19 million. Now the thesis is that in addition to the costs to be covered by the State through a subsidy for these activities, there must also be a fair profit. A Commission report is quoted without telling what fair profit means. I took the trouble of looking into it, asking accountants, auditors, et cetera. Fair profit only occurs when the price of the service transport is calculated between rural and long-distance from municipalities, and writes that it can not be more than 5%. We don't have that here. And fair market price, but an auditor to determine fair profit without having absolutely no clues on what basis it can be and what size it is, seems to me something that is a great achievement in legislation. This means that the auditor can set this value at random, provided that he has nowhere to go or how to realise this otherwise good intention, that profit is important, and the Irrigation Systems are commercial companies. In the Food Act. Now the Minister will issue a certificate that they are working under the BDS! There is a Public Register in the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. In this public register there are both companies and everything they do. What should there be a certificate for?! Who needs it?! In the Commission, I tried to ask these questions, honourable Members, I had no answer to any of them. The fact that good wishes are recorded in the motives and how many things we will change in the Law seems to me that it is not enough. There must be much more serious expertise and much more serious written texts in order to create prerequisites for the expansion of organic production, as this is a market niche that we all expect to develop and not be sanctioned. By the other laws, it seems to me that it's not even very decent with a bill, however cosmetic the changes may be, to change other laws. We will not support the Bill, but, as we have emphasised in the Commission, between first and second readings, we will make changes that will create prefixes for this law to solve issues, not create new problems, as will happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u182	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. For a declaration on behalf of a group, Mr. Mareshki.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u183	Madam President, honourable Members! It is no longer a secret to anyone who fucks with Bulgarianism the most, one of the most important things! Our dignity as Bulgarian citizens and the dignity of every citizen of any country is his citizenship! Now we are all more convinced by the words of Mr. Karakachanov's former deputy in VMRO. Mr. Kostadinov, who determines that the so-called patriots of VMRO-GNI have created a whole criminal sector, a passport mafia, that the President of IMRO has appointed a close friend and former associate, again according to the words of his former deputy Mr. Kostadinov, as the head of the Agency who is doing this, perhaps the most violent crime against the Bulgarian people and the Bulgarian state, namely the sale of Bulgarian citizenship, that thousands, and perhaps hundreds of thousands of people who have nothing in common with us as a nation, as a people have received the same document that we have. And that is just to benefit them, to enrich themselves. Because of this activity, Kostadinov called the party the "Karakachan Criminal Formation" that absolutely nothing can be done without Karakachanov's knowledge, says he is actually the real architect and creator of the criminal scheme. These things, said by Karakachanov's closest, most trusted man, sound scary. We, as part of the entire Bulgarian people, are also standing and wondering why these people are still at large and do not give explanations where they should do so, but what to wonder? I guess that's what it's like in our land! Since yesterday it became clear where the money of the Bulgarian pensioners is. Only a political cheater can promise 300 leva. a pension and a word not to peel for airplanes, and then to buy airplanes and not to have 300 leva. pension. Political fraudsters lied to the Bulgarian people. According to Deutsche Welle, IMRO's voters are the most lied to voters. We didn't believe that was true. And believe us, all night long, you're probably wondering why and where these candles came from all night we were secluded in a beautiful Bulgarian monastery, and word for word, page by page we were looking at Project Budget 2019. And we were looking for the sacral number 300 leva. pension. Not that it's enough, but at least it's something. And most importantly, this is the first point of your program. Before I even decided to pursue politics, if they asked me what these offer, I would say: The whole Bulgarian people's heads are so stuck in this thing. Alas, we did not find such a number. The 100 leva, which additionally had to be given to the Bulgarian pensioners to help at least a little better live after the robberies, which they are constantly subjected to, flew in complete radio silence for Count Ignatievo, for the purchase of eight planes! But let's say: "Okay, they have already flown away! " The Bulgarian pensioners pray for a cold water to be alive and healthy, and some must pray with their whimsical cynicism, pray securely and quickly to leave this world, so that they will not be paid the miserable pensions, but we also heard the next cynicism that because eight planes were not enough for Karakachanov, and because there was no more money for the other eight who would also want to buy, now after not adding 100 levs to become 300 levs. the pensions would now offer to reduce them to 100 BGN, because it was the same for the Bulgarian pensioner. And they would offer to reduce the pensions of the Bulgarian pensioners to 100 BGN. and with the savings of 100 leva. Let's buy the other eight planes. Now that's the point of insolence! This is what we expect to happen now and finally let the tortured Bulgarian people wake up! Look, I know that in a little while it's very likely that some primate, some premature...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u184	Be careful, Mr. Mareshki! Please! Look out!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u185	I'm totally careful! I'm very careful! And I want you to listen to me very carefully!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u186	Without using words like that! [[Noise and lines.]] Please don't call from the gym! You'll have an opportunity to respond.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u187	He's gonna come out and he's gonna start reading some kind of statement about how I was to some freak who insulted someone else's mother, slapped him or something. With such a small man, he will try to legitimize his criminal activity by seeking a crime from others. This is the big problem of Bulgarian politics throughout the whole transition that the justification of the thefts today, for the sales of Bulgarian passports today, is that they say: "Ama and she "some other employee Katya-who has done it before with Turkish passports. They don't say, "We're innocent!" They say, "Okay, but you did it with Turkish passports?"............................................... And you see, today they're even trying to twist the words of the D.A., which are still: Note: "Still disappears from the lines of colleagues and it is said that there is no evidence of Karakachanov's participation in this scheme. Only the exact sentence of the Prosecutor's Office is:.. still.......... still........................................................................................ Well, a week ago, there was still no record of Karakachanov's friend the director. We don't know what's gonna happen in a week. We hope that the Prosecution's feverishly and actively collects data and facts about his involvement in this scheme, according to his former deputy. I do not want Karakachanov to expel, for example Julian Angelov or Iskren Veselinov from the party, because do you imagine what we will hear then? [[Noise and lines. Awesome.]] Then what will we hear about the party's current situation? I don't want to. I don't even know what I have to do with my ears to not hear what they're gonna hear if, God forbid, Karakachanov kicks these two out of IMRO right now. Then they will be forced to tell the whole truth, but still, colleagues, in order to understand what I'm saying to you, and not then to muffin some things, you have to write other than books, and you have to read books. But more importantly... [[Noise and lines.]] More importantly, listen carefully, more importantly is the quality of these books and if you have come to it only to get acquainted with the work of your leader, I think you can find much more worthy and stronger authors because it is certainly not in the forehead of world literary and scientific publicist, prose and poetry. I'm not familiar with his work, I don't know exactly what it is, so it won't be hard for you to find stronger authors. Take your time and read a little more! Dear colleagues, yesterday we participated in mass in the monastery. After that, we had very nice, valuable conversations with the people who rule there. We see that they are trying to do something good, to revive the Bulgarianism that you are selling! I have something very important to tell you. God is merciful! We're sure he'll forgive them, too. After all, it's his power. He will forgive even the greatest of the degenerates because he believes that they can be repaired, but we call on you: find time between the bargains, enter a church, light a candle and pray!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u188	The weather, Mr. Mareshki!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u189	Pray to the Bulgarian people to forgive you for all the frauds and robberies you are responsible for. Thank you. [[Applause by "Volja".]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u190	Thank you, Mr. Mareshki. Personal explanation, please. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u191	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Since I was mentioned by Mr. Mareshki, I owe it to him to point out that my personal explanation then he is not entitled to a personal explanation, not to violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u192	There's no personal explanation for it on a statement either!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u193	Yes, you do. My personal explanation is that I have been mentioned and many lies have been expressed again by the stands of the Bulgarian National Assembly. First of all, I would like to ask, Madam President, does Mr Mareshki have the right to request, on behalf of a parliamentary group, a declaration. Is he a member of the leadership of the Parliamentary Group of Volja. If it's not a member, it might be a member, I'm not sure...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u194	The chairman of the Parliamentary Group of Volja was in the Chamber and she may have given him...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u195	She may have been in the Chamber, but in the end Mr. Mareshki, as Vice-President of the National Assembly more... [[Noise and lines.]] Either way, he violates the Rules of the National Assembly because I have not seen anyone from his parliamentary group, from the leadership, ask for the word on behalf of a group. And he's been allowed more than a year. After all, we must be strict about complying with the Rules of Procedure. Regarding the lies and manipulations you have spoken, I will once again state it. IMRO has never speculated in any way with the fates of Bulgarians abroad. On the contrary, we have only and always only helped. We agree with the IMRO to be examined, investigated, investigated and everything related to us to see if there is such a thing. We are ready to stand up to the lie detector, but then we will also want Mr. Mareshki to stand up to the lie detector and all his claims, lies and all the business-related things to answer the lie detector to see who's lying and who's not lying. Because it's one thing to get out of the stands and say something, it's another to be true. I hope that the investigative authorities will confirm what they have said so far that there is no data on either Karakachanov or persons associated with him from IMRO on similar schemes. If we have to, I say again, we're ready to cooperate and be checked out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u196	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u197	I'm just finishing up Mr. Mareshki's speech today was mainly about this because his parliamentary group today has three MPs being asked by the Prosecutor's Office to waive their immunity. Not us. Him.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u198	It was a personal explanation. That's enough. Thank you. Regarding whether Mr. Mareshki has the right to take the floor on behalf of a parliamentary group, yes, there is, because Mrs. Stefanova is chairman of the group. She was present in the Chamber and has the right to authorize it in order to act on behalf of a parliamentary group. We continue with the debates on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union. Are there any other speeches, colleagues? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the first vote a bill amending and supplementing the Law implementing the Common Organisation of Agricultural Markets of the European Union, No 802 01 44, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 23 October 2018. Vote 117 MPs: 81, against 33, abstention 3. The motion is accepted. For the procedure Mrs. Taneva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u199	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! On the occasion of the debates held both in the Committee on Agriculture and Food, and here in the Chamber, the remarks made by Professor Bachvarova, there are indeed texts and hypotheses that need precision. I therefore propose that the period between first and second readings be extended by seven days.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-08.u200	Thank you, dear Mrs. Taneva. I put to the vote the procedural proposal of the MP Desislava Taneva. They voted 111 MPs: for 110, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Parliamentary Control Communication on 9 November 2018, Friday, 9.00 p.m. 1. Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev will answer a question from the MP Alexander Nenkov. 2. Deputy Prime Minister for Justice Reform and Foreign Minister Ekaterina Zaharieva will answer three questions from the MPs Kristian Vigenin and Petar Vitanov; Petar Vitanov and Dimitar Danchev; and Ivo Hristov. 3. Finance Minister Vladislav Goranov will answer a question from the MP Rumen Gechev. 4. Interior Minister Mladen Marinov will answer a question from the MPs Nikolay Tsonkov and Slavcho Velkov. 5. Minister of Labour and Social Policy Biser Petkov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. 6. The Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev will answer two questions from the MPs Mihail Hristov; and Todor Bajchev and Tsvetan Topchiev. 7. Energy Minister Temenuzhka Petkova will answer two questions from the MPs Zhelyo Boychev and Tasco Ermenkov; and Hristo Prodanov. 8. The Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev will answer four questions from the MPs Georgi Mihailov; Nadia Klisurska and Donka Simeonova; Anelia Klisarova and Irena Anastasova; and Irena Anastasova. 9. The Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Petya Avramova will answer two questions from the MPs Dora Yankova; and Nikolay Tishev; and one question from the MP Dora Yankova. 10. The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov will answer a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov. 11. Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov will answer two questions from the MPs Hristo Prodanov; and Rumen Gechev. 12. Culture Minister Boel Banov will answer three questions from the MPs Krasen Krastev and Kalin Vassilev; and Evgeni Budinov [[two questions]] . On the basis of art. 96, para. Art. 3 and Art. OJ L 268, 18.10.2003, p. 29. 2 of the MNS, delaying responses by seven days have requested: - Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to a question from the National Representative Anton Kutev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov to a question with a written answer from the National Representative Philip Popov; - the Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov of a question by the MPs Desislava Todorova and Alexander Matsurev; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov of a question by the MPs Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Tsonkov. In the absence of the country in the parliamentary control meeting, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov will not participate. Due to previous commitments at the parliamentary control meeting, the Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov will not participate. That's why today's work day is over. Tomorrow, 9:00 P.M. control. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
