ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u1	Good afternoon, colleagues! There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. [[PHONE RINGING]] Colleagues, I present to your attention the Programme for Work of the National Assembly 28 "November 30" 2018. 1. Second vote on the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018 and was adopted at first vote on 6 November 2018. I'm sorry, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. 2. Second vote on the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018, adopted on the first vote on 17 November 2018. 3. A bill ratifying the Strategic Partnership Agreement between the European Union and its Member States, of the one part, and Canada, of the other part. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 15 October 2018. 4. First vote on the Bill amending the Law on Bulgarian Personal Documents. The representatives of the National Assembly are Mikhail Hristov and Krum Zarkov on 3 October 2018. 5. Second vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Radio and Television. The People's Representative Vecdi Rashidov was imported on 19 October 2018. He was accepted at the first vote on 14 November 2018. 6. Second vote on the Bill amending and supplementing the Penal Code. A joint project drawn up by the Committee on Legal Affairs on the basis of the laws adopted at the first vote on 25 October 2018 with importers: the Council of Ministers on 8 October 2018; Tsvetan Tsvetanov, Danail Kirilov, Emil Dimitrov and Christian Mitev on 9 October 2018. 7. Draft Decision amending and supplementing the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers on 23 November 2018. Point 1 for Friday 30 November 2018 8. Parliamentary control. Please vote on the draft programme so designed. Vote 160 MPs: 132 against 2, abstention 26. The motion is accepted. Draft and draft resolutions from 21 November 2018 to 27 November 2018: 1. Bill amending the Law on Medical Institutions. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Health is the lead. 2. Project of a decision to announce the town of Stara Zagora for the town of the Bulgarian military glory. Importers are Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. It's assigned to the Defense Committee. 3. Draft Decision for amendment and supplement of the Energy Strategy of the Republic of Bulgaria by 2020. Importer is the Council of Ministers. It has been allocated to the Energy Commission. 4. Draft decision amending the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The importer is Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Committee on Legal Affairs is the lead. 5. Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection against the Harmful Effects of Chemicals and Mixes. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The Committee on Environment and Water is the lead. It is also allocated to the Committee on European Affairs and Control of European Funds, the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism and the Committee on Health. 6. Draft Law on the ratification of the Protocol amending the Agreement on multilateral payments in translated rubles and the Organization of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, as well as the Statute of that Bank and the Protocol amending the Agreement on Organizations and Activities of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963 as amended by Protocols from 18 December 1970 to 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990 and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990. It is allocated to the Committee on Budget and Finance and the Committee on Foreign Policy. 7. Draft decision to complete the leadership of the Committee on Foreign Policy. The importer is Cornelia Ninova. Dear Madam President, on the basis of art. 85 of the Rules of Organization and Procedure of the National Assembly, we withdraw the draft Law amending the Copyright and Related Rights Act, No 854-01-85, tabled on 19 November 2018. Importers are Danail Kirilov, Anna Alexandrova and Emil Dimitrov. We're moving on to the Bill. Mr. Popov, come in. Procedure?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u2	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I'm doing a procedure for direct transmission of t. 1 and 2 of the weekly Programme, namely the Bill on the Budget of State Social Security and the Second Voting of the Bill on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria to be broadcast directly on the Bulgarian National Television and the Bulgarian National Radio. These are the budgets for 2019 which basically determine the fate of many Bulgarian citizens and their quality of life in 2019. This is an extremely important topic, so I hope you will support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u3	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. I put to the vote Mr. Popov's proposal for direct broadcast on National Television and National Radio. They voted 159 MPs: 59, against 74, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the second reading of the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019. ............................................... 3. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u4	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 3 and Art. 4. There are no proposals on these two terms.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u5	Statements, coworkers? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 3 and 4 supported by the Commission. Vote 158 MPs: 121 against 9, abstention 28. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u6	Under art. 5 has a proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 5 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) of row I (c) of row 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (d) of row 1.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. In para. 3 the number..159 964,7... is replaced by..170 The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u7	Statements? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 161 MPs: 41, against 93, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 5, supported by the Commission. Vote 160 MPs: 121 against 39 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u8	Under art. 6 has a proposal of Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 6 the following amendments shall be made: "1." In para. 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) of row I. "Accounts and transfers" is replaced by "1 137 018.7" by "1 191 418.7"; (c) of row 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (d) of row 1.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) of row I. the number of the amount of the financial contribution referred to in point (b) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. (c) of row 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 35000. (d) of row 1.2. The number of social benefits and benefits is 1 178 265.4 is replaced by 1 251 265.4 is replaced by 1 251 265.4 is replaced by the number of social benefits and benefits. 3. In para. 3 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 6.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u9	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u10	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Without abusing, I will only explain what is the policy that we pursue with our proposals under art. 6. We're offering 73 million in the spending area, saying where they're coming from in the revenue section. We want to implement a policy on mothers and compensation for motherhood for raising a child between the first and the second year. Here I will just mention that the policy is that in the second year of motherhood for raising a child between one and two years you traditionally freeze it by managing the state, and it is currently 380 BGN, and is extremely inadequately low this compensation for motherhood. Our proposal is in the big budget the minimum wage to become 640 BGN, and accordingly we follow our consistent policy this proposal for the minimum wage to be the compensation for maternity. That is, in order to implement this policy.. 640 BGN. Maternity in the second year requires 73 million. And here in the budget of the General Disease Fund we say where this 73 million will come from for the realization of this policy for Bulgarian mothers and children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you are, Mr. Popov, for your speech.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u12	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The main problem in Bulgaria is the demographic crisis, and in some places it has taken on threatening sizes. Nothing in this budget predicts and no measures are adopted in relation to the fight against this phenomenon the demographic catastrophe in Bulgaria. When we propose an increase in motherhood for raising a child, this is a measure in terms of combating the demographic catastrophe in Bulgaria. Three hundred and eighty. or less than BGN 400. there is no way to raise children in Bulgaria. There is no way to raise children when you do not reduce the VAT on children's foods, you do not reduce the VAT on bread, you do not reduce at all the costs that a family needs to make in order to raise its child. At the same time, you do not increase in any way the income of this family in relation to the mothers that each Bulgarian mother should receive for raising her child. This is a lack of any policy on your part regarding combating the demographic catastrophe. Otherwise loud and bright you proclaim it... we fight all the time, but only so. No concrete measures or actions are taken, which is also evident from this budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u13	Thank you, dear Mr. Popov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mrs. Jeleva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u14	Thank you. Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! It is painful to comment on this topic because this year, too, the compensation for raising a child from one to two years will remain extremely miserable. Every year when discussing the budget, we propose that it be linked at least to the minimum wage, and in this case we will propose the minimum salary for next year to be 640 BGN. and we propose that the compensation be BGN 640. to raise a child from one to two years old. And because a lot of colleagues like to go back, I want to...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u15	All we're talking about here is expenses.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u16	Yes, in the Fund we propose that the costs be increased so that there can be a more appropriate compensation for mothers from one to two years. Here I would like to quote one reference: the compensation for 2013 was 240 BGN for the first six months, for the next BGN 310, 2014, notice, it increased to 340 BGN, related to the minimum wage, which for the year then was 340 BGN, 2015. Again 340 BGN, 2016 again 340 BGN, 2017 " 340 BGN, and a minimum increase of 380 BGN. The previous year when the minimum wage is BGN 510 For the general illness and disability are provided in one family, both the man and the woman, and upon receipt of such compensation, and after the birth of a child, they will do so for many years. Therefore, I think it is humiliating that this year the compensation will remain BGN 380, much below the minimum standard of living of a family. This shows that there is no policy for young people, and not only that there is none, it is absolutely zero and there is no such support. That's why the word I'm supposed to say here, I'm going to save it, but people are going to tell it to you outside and very soon. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u17	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 156 MPs: 38, against 81, abstention 37. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 6, supported by the Commission. Vote 150 MPs: 115 against 34, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u18	Under art. 7 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. The Commission does not support the proposal. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments shall be made: "V." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para 1: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number....315 074.0.. is replaced by..330 (b) in row I, the proceeds and transfers, the total number (c) of row 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (d) of row 1.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. In para. 2: (a) in the introductory sentence, the number (b) of row I. the number of the amount of the financial contribution referred to in point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation. (c) of row 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. (d) of row 1.2. The number of social benefits and benefits is 449 568.2 and is replaced by 477 568.2. 3. In para. 3 the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for Article 7.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u19	Statements? Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u20	Again, in a nutshell. This is the "Unemployment" and its budget. We propose that the cost portion be increased by 28 million to implement policies that we have described in art. 11 These are the minimum and maximum daily unemployment benefit. This 28 million we explained where they will come from in the budget of the Fund Unemployment and from the increased minimum wage, from the increased maximum insurance income and from transfers from the state budget. Further on in art. 11 We will explain why this increase in the minimum daily unemployment allowance is required, which is currently 9 BGN. 16 BGN, and the maximum daily rate of 74,29 BGN. At 85,71 leva. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u21	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. Let's move on to the vote. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 146 MPs: 39, against 82, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the text of the importer for art. 7, supported by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 102, against 36, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u22	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 8.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u23	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 8 on the Commission report. They voted 146 MPs: 107 against 16, abstention 23. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u24	Under art. 9 has a proposal of the MPs Desislava Taneva and Irena Dimova. The Commission supports the proposal. Proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. The Commission supports the proposal referred to in point (a) and does not support it under point (b) of point (b) of that point, namely: (b) (i.e. 4 the number of the number of the 3,000 is replaced by the number of the number of the 2600 is replaced by the number of the number of the 3600 is replaced by Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 9 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in t. 3 the number 2. in t. 4 the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for art. 9. Art. 9. The following monthly social security income amounts shall be determined for 2019: 1. minimum monthly amount of insurance income during the calendar year of basic economic activities and qualification groups of professions pursuant to Annex No 1; 2. minimum monthly amount of the insurance income for self-insuring persons - BGN 560• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 3. minimum monthly amount of insurance income for registered farmers and tobacco producers• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 4. maximum monthly amount of the insurance income.. 3000 BGN..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u25	Statements? Mr. Gokov, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u26	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Article 9 basically refers to the revenue portion of the budget, insurance parameters are determined with it and since the tax insurance system in Bulgaria does not function fairly, we believe that they should be revised. In this context, I will comment on the increase in the maximum insurance income that we offer. You're actually offering it to you in your program, but not with a big enough step. I note that, according to the participants in the process of making this decision to increase the maximum social security income, making serious changes in the pension insurance system, it has been taken on a basis without complying with the principles of predictability, clarity and openness and without debates to take account of all the parties concerned. I question that this and other changes in the revenue and expenditure part of the state social security budget for 2019 meet the expectations and needs of Bulgarian citizens. Since 2000, when the maximum insurance income was introduced, it grows annually while managing GERB because in 2009 it was frozen at BGN 2000. at the 2008 and 2013 level, when it became 2200. At Oresharski it becomes 2,400 leva. and again in power GERB, and again freezing at level 2600 BGN. by 2018 with an initial idea to remain such until the end of the term of office until 2021. Now surprisingly, and in my opinion, unmotivated and unjustified is offered an increase of maximum insurance income for all insured persons to 3000 BGN, which is a step, albeit insufficient, in the right direction. I'm saying it's not motivated and it's not justified because it's been taken, I'm saying, without serious debate about it with the social partners. I will just remind you that when the maximum insurance income was introduced there was a decision to be 10 times the minimum wage, i.e. in the next 2019, if we take your minimum salary, which you offer from BGN 560, it should have been 560. The very lag of the maximum insurance income leads to an unfair limitation of the access of insured persons to compensation and we consider it fair the maximum monthly insurance income of BGN 2600. to increase not as proposed to 3000 BGN, but at least to 3900, respectively the maximum pension to increase from 910 not to 1200, as proposed and envisaged, but to 1560 BGN. with trends in the very near future dropping both the maximum monthly amount of social security income and the ceiling of pensions. This is what we propose in our proposal further to establish these parameters. I'll say a few words on that. 3 suppliing farmers. There, by the way, you set a minimum monthly amount of the insurance income of these registered farmers and tobacco producers of 560 BGN. For 2016 the amount of this insurance income is 350 BGN. If this had remained and there were no other proposals, I say quite definitely that it is unacceptable such a sharp increase of 60%. The reasons are clear, but as if the principle of determination and the criteria for determining this 60% jump are not clear to me, because when we determine this social security obligation of these people, we need to take into account whether the revenues that Bulgarian agricultural and tobacco producers have will allow them to be provided at such levels, for example at low buying-in prices of agricultural production, as this year happened with rose producers. The question is also: by increasing the insurance income, will they be guaranteed pensions other than the current ones, i.e. higher than the minimum ones? I very much hope that it will be supported, it is supported by the Commission, but the proposal for insurance income for farmers of 400 BGN will be accepted. And I welcome it. I think this will be good for both farmers and the public social security budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I won't. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u28	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House, honored guests! Two are our proposals. I thank the Commission for supporting one of them, it is about the minimum amount of the monthly insurance income of farmers and tobacco producers. You may recall that last year we adopted the principle of increasing this size stepwise in order to reach the amount that corresponds to the adequacy of the contribution and the amount of the pension that is received. With regard to the second problem, we strongly disagree with the increase of maximum insurance income from BGN 2600 to BGN 3000. We've stated them many times. First, maximum social security income must ensure predictability. What do I mean? Serious companies by September make their estimates for next year, make their business plans based on the current legislation and based on the three-year budget forecast that has been operating at that time, if you will, on the basis of election promises. There the size is BGN 2600. So what are these companies supposed to do now? These companies need to adjust their costs again so that they can be included in this maximum insurance amount of 3000 BGN. Note that the maximum insurance amount, now limited to BGN 2600, is 147 thousand, which will pay insurance contributions next year on BGN 3000. It is true that they will receive higher levels of social protection. It is true that they will receive higher amounts of insurance payments based on this maximum insurance income, but there is no predictability here either. Until now, the maximum amount of the pension has been defined as a percentage of the maximum social security income of 35% so far, next year is proposed to be 40%, but it turns out that those who have believed the legislation feel cheated now because from 1 January 2019 instead of falling the maximum amount of the pension, it has changed to 1200 BGN. Although a step in the right direction, it is not enough. This step practically lied to those who believed the legislation. One of the participants in the discussion on raising the maximum insurance income and raising the pension to BGN 1200. He said, well, 2009, when we officially, fanfare, pompously signed that agreement, we were wrong! You were wrong, but at the cost of what? At the cost of a financial penalty for those who have implemented the legislation! This is the discrepancy in behavior, and that is why we say: if you want to raise the maximum insurance income, ok, argue, do it on the election platform, so people will believe you, support it and there will be no problem. Now what does it turn out to be? Those who voted for you because you offered freezing the maximum insurance income, you lied to them and they received your trust. Those who said they wanted to raise the maximum insurance income did not get enough trust. You can see what drastic differences occur when we fail to fulfil the commitments we make, therefore, honourable Members, we propose that the maximum insurance income be frozen on BGN 2600, as it was in 2018, in order to be predictable in order to have transparency in order to allow serious companies who, by the way, vote for you not to be deceived. That's why it's about our proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u29	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? Here you go, Rumen Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u30	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Ademov, I will replicate you in relation to the minimum monthly amount of the insurance income of registered farmers and tobacco producers. Last week we were in Zagreb with colleague Bjurhan A base at an interparliamentary conference where there was no representative from GERB in connection with the new common agricultural policy. There it was Phil Hogan who said that we should, through tax policies, stimulate farmers through state instruments, that is why we propose that there be no what you said last year that we adopted a principle that the maximum monthly insurance amount should be increased. I am sorry, however, but Phil Hogan himself and colleagues in Europe offer the opposite. Therefore, we at BSP also propose to keep it at 350 BGN, as it is so far, not to have this increase. In any case, the state does not in any way stimulate small farmers, now we are additionally burdening them with these insurances. This is my reply to you, so I believe that we must respect the principle that in Europe is perceived to stimulate small farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u31	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Second line? I can't see. Here you go, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u32	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Minister, I thank you for this line, but in Bulgarian society there is a sense of injustice. The feeling of injustice also goes through the search for a link between the insurance contribution and the amount of the insurance payment. Unfortunately, we are looking for this link with farmers and tobacco producers, and we are not looking for it, for example, in the sector of Security, where just now in art. 3 We agreed that the deficit was 99 million there, although the insurance contribution in the sector was increased by 20.8% last year and reached 60.8% payment entirely at the expense of the state budget. So that's not where we're looking for justice, but here we're looking for justice. It is obvious that when we talk about a minimum amount of insurance income for farmers and for tobacco producers, we need to be aware that at this minimum amount they will receive a minimum amount of pension and here colleagues will tell you. They ask the question: well, you keep and offer to be provided with minimum insurance income, why do we get a minimum pension amount? This is the big question: can you be provided on the minimum insurance income, but this is the minimum insurance income, from there on you can be provided, not can, but must be provided on the real income. And that's the big truth. And as for whether farmers have production, based on the sale of this production, whether they can make a profit with which to pay insurance contributions, which you are implying is probably, obviously, that there are huge problems there, but this is not a problem of the insurance system. Our security system has been empathetic over the years with all sectoral policies: with the security sector, with agriculture, with miners, with categorical workers, let alone this. And that's why it came to this situation that he was hostage to the rest of the unreformed systems.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u33	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Mrs. Klisurska, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u34	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The budget is a tool to implement the catch-up policy on incomes. Allow me, before I make a statement on our proposals, to comment on what we propose in art. 9, p. 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 9, p. 1 We determine the minimum monthly amount of insurance income during the calendar year for basic economic activities and qualification groups, professions according to Annex No 1. Look at what we are doing: 85 positions, 729 economic activities, and regardless of how we increase the minimum wage by 10%, again and this year, and this was a tool of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, a tool of government to show that they are willing to raise everyone's incomes. By means of this instrument, with the determination of minimum insurance benefits by economic activities, it would be felt by the whole population, because there, in this way, the thresholds below which cannot fall for each economic activity are regulated. Now, what do we do? Of the 729 positions in this Annex No 1 more than half are equal to the minimum wage. What are we showing? What is the attitude of the government towards income policy in all economic activities? We show that people will be provided at this minimum threshold and will eventually hide their real income from the insurance system. We give this right and this opportunity. I draw attention to the Minister for Labour and Social Policy, which is here because.. I will repeat it again when the discussion was at first reading, we were gathered three committees and there was no answer to any of the questions asked, and then these questions were asked. Why? Why is there no will from the governing body to change this instrument? This will be felt by every Bulgarian citizen because the economic activities and these thresholds give this opportunity. We don't want to know why! I hope now we get the answer why? I will go to our proposals, which are related to raising the maximum insurance income. Extremely timid and symbolic increase in maximum insurance income! Once again, high income groups benefit at the expense of low income groups. I don't want to talk about justice here, because the sense of justice is not felt by this symbolic increase. We believe that the maximum social security income must be increased significantly. You don't say anything else. You say: now we increase it symbolically by 400 leva. 2,000. 600 to 3,000, but we freeze it to the end of the term. It's an extremely wrong policy! The International Labour Organisation has adopted a universal instrument: as the minimum wage grows, the maximum social income is also increased to contribute to the social security system all based on what they receive. This is just and the sense of justice will only be felt when you accept this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u35	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. For speech Prof. Bachvarova. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u36	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! I would like to return the subject and the debate regarding the provision of farmers. The first conclusion that can be drawn from the proposal, which was made by the Council of Ministers, is that without any estimates, without any discussions on the topic, the proposal is for the insurance income of farmers to reach BGN 560. In my opinion, the lack of dialogue with regard to this step has led to the fact that there are different proposals for another year in parliament during the discussion of the Law on State Social Security. Colleagues from GERB and DPS offer minimum insurance income to reach 400 BGN, yet it seems to me that there are no arguments for this. Because arguments should be sought not in what we decided last year, that is, gradually increasing, because there is reason for this in the long term, but for what the economic situation in the country is. Our offer is 350 leva. to stay. The reasons are in several directions. Three hundred and fifty leva, why? Because increasing the minimum insurance income leads, firstly, to dropping farmers every year from support or at all from the insurance, about 40 thousand are farmers who are being provided. Believe me, after this step for the second year in a row 50 leva. increase, next year they will be even less! In principle, farmers' income is determined by income from the realization of production. A few facts. The national statistical institute reported for 2018 for the first six months that the prices of agricultural products per producer decreased by 5,8 percent, such as those in plant farming by 8.5 and those in livestock farming by 2.6. Her third quarter trend is the same. What you expect as revenue from the realization of the production, and it is even seasonal, will not be realized. Farmers have no way of providing these funds. Believe me, if they have opportunities, they will be provided at higher rates! Secondly, last week, the State Fund....................................................................................................... And in order not to have a problem with their services, not being sanctioned with subsequent payments, respectively, due to them, the Governing Council made such a decision last week. Last but not least, in almost all countries in the European Union, subsidies are not taxed. Whether you are small, whether you are average, whether you are a big farmer, the subsidies in Bulgaria are taxed. So, at some point we say that they must be provided and regardless of what the farm is, the subsidy is taxed on those farmers who rely on them in order to maintain their income. Believe me, if we increase the step by 50 BGN, next year the reduction, as it goes, by 7 to 8% will reduce farmers, that is, they will have absolutely no insurance. My request is to review the situation and the proposal we are making to freeze the minimum insurance income of 350 BGN. For 2019, so that those we rely on for small and medium-sized businesses can continue to exist. Otherwise, no one's bankruptcies are necessary and cost much more money to the state than to maintain their income through production in agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u37	Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Colleagues, we're going to vote. Firstly, I will put to the vote the unsupported proposal by the National Representative Mustafa Karadaye, not supported by the letter "b." They voted 132 MPs: 30, against 88, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 141 MPs: for 48, against 70, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. And now I'm putting to the vote the editorial of art. 9 on the Commission report. Vote 141 MPs: 86, against 40, abstention 15. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u38	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Under art. 10 has a proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments shall be made: l. From 1 January to 31 March - 207,60 BGN 2. From 1 April to 31 December The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u39	Statements? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u40	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start with news from a month ago. It reads: "The Pennies went out to protest under the windows of power. They insist on recalculating all pensions. Elderly people offer minimum pension to become 308 BGN, which is 55% of the minimum wage. Another request is the ceiling of pensions, which is currently BGN 910, to be removed! What's happened since then? Nothing at all. You were deaf to their fair demands. I know these are elderly people, sick people, but they are, above all, decent people, decent Bulgarians. And they deserve a decent old age! You can't do it with 200 leva. a pension to live. You can't survive. Because it's 200 leva. One month's pension is as much as your wage, honourable MPs, for one day, and they have to spend one month with these 200 BGN. That is why we propose, and we have proposed, and now in art. 10, t. 2 the number s "219,43 BGN" to be replaced by "300 BGN." Dear gentlemen Patriotti, you are being referred to....................................................................................................................................................................... 10, t. The 2th number of the traditional proposal, Mrs. President, should be replaced by BGN 300. However, the attitude towards these demands of the protesters, of the Bulgarian pensioners is seen throughout the budget, including in art. 10, where there is absolutely no movement of pensions, at all thought about how to survive with 200 leva. in Bulgarian terms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u41	Just tell me: this is an editorial amendment, you're making it where? [[Declarations with MP Philip Popov.]] From 1 July to 31 December it will become 300 BGN.? Okay. - What's the line? I won't. Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u42	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! We've come to a very interesting moment.............................................................................. 10 which determines the minimum amount of the pension for insurance service and age under art. 68. I'm saying it's an interesting moment, because there are some things that I'm going to say and I'm going to be very careful when I talk, not to offend any of my colleagues, but as a matter of fact, these things have to be said. I remember some election promises of 300 leva. minimum amount of the pension, from promises in the election platform of the United Patriarchs. Now that I see it, we're a long way from 300 levs. and there is no such proposal for 300 BGN, made by the parliamentary group of the United Patriarchs and at the adoption of the second budget of the Forty-fourth National Assembly. This means only one thing: that you gave up your promise and with the support for this increase in the minimum amount of the pension for internship and age by 5.7% of BGN 207,60. on BGN 219.43, and from July 1st next year, there is no way to say that until the end of your term of office you will reach your election promise. minimum pension. You prove in practice the claim from the wing phrase of Otto von Bismarck: The most false is before elections, during war and after hunting. [[Radio.]] Just listen to the facts, and then you'll argue and we'll comment. I remember how from this tribune at the beginning of this term from the parliamentary group of "United Patriarchs" it was said that when on 30 November 2016 you offered an increase in the minimum pension of 200 levs and a claim of all other pensions, the other proposal "to increase 300 levs," but without the benefit of the others, you did not receive support from the then parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Then the thesis changed and the claim was that the parliamentary group of BSP supported you, but with few votes and did not reach 5 votes to accept your proposal. These statements, which represent untruths, were uttered by Volen Siderov and Slavcho Atanasov. You may think that an untrue, repeated hundred times will become true, but it is not. Therefore, dear patriots, after every statement you make in this direction, I will tell you the truth. And it is: "In the event of a vote held on 30 November 2016, at 13.22 pm, on your proposal under the State Social Security Budget Act for 2017, a second vote under art. 10 of the proposal..... by Valeri Simeonov and Krasimir Karakachanov, not those who are now hitting on the chest and saying that they have offered it, and Volen Siderov finally, for minimum amount of pension for insurance internship and age 200 levs and reclaiming of all pensions. The results of this vote are: 143 MPs voted: 69, against 13, abstention 61. The parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria and 38 people voted: 30 for, without opposition and abstention. Eight MPs are absent from the vote. The Patriotic Front and Ataka groups, who have already reached an agreement on a common coalition at that time, voted as follows: the parliamentary group of the Patriotic Front (Patriotic Front) of 21 people voted 13 for...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8 MPs from the parliamentary group of the Patriotic Front are absent [[crowd cheering from OP]] The group voted 6 for the group, without abstention and abstention, 5 MPs were absent. There are 13 MPs missing from the voting, as well as 41% from the group and 8 from the supporters, i.e. BSP 21% from the group. In the re-voting requested by the Patriotic Front, by your colleague Bajraktarov, the results are similar. They are also analogical for the vote for 300 BGN. So either speak the truth or be silent. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Not that it matters going back to old things, but it's in truth that you don't have to repeat it from this tribune, it won't become pó truth. The bigger question is: why now, honourable Members of the Patriotic Fronts, are you not proposing the promised increase in the minimum pension and, more importantly, why do you not support our proposal to reclaim pensions, which is also your election commitment? Maybe because you're threatened by the big coalition partner that you're gonna break the coalition and tear down the government, and you're not out of power! [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] From now on, it is better to remain silent and not mention this shameful fact about you when you offer something with a clear awareness that you do not want it to pass, and you blame the other parliamentary groups for failing in your wishes. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u43	Thank you. Are there any lines? Mr. Simeonov, the line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u44	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Mr. Gokov, of course what you say is manipulation, as I hear on the subject of pensions. The truth is that in the vote on the public insurance budget 2016, first item when the budget balance was voted on - a revenue and expenditure portion - and on which it depended whether there will be money for the increase of the pensions of 300 leva, you gave 4 votes. The vote subsequently supported by these 20 people whose votes you gave did not change anything because the first item was not voted on. One more thing: you were wrong with the group of the Patriotic Front, which then was 17 people. One more thing, I didn't want to say this, but before the budget vote we had a meeting in the House of West with your leader Mrs. Nino, Mr. Gechev, and I think there were two other people who you definitely said you would support our proposal for 300 BGN. You didn't do it in the gym. You played vaudeville, you once again played the theater "what you are doing at the moment." And on the question of whether and why we have not fulfilled our election promises, it is high time to stop speculating, because when you are in coalition format, you cannot fail to comply with the larger partner and everything that is signed as a management program is the result of lengthy and difficult negotiations. Another thing that nobody says: if it wasn't for the Patriots' presence in this government, the minimum pensions wouldn't have been increased to 200 leva. Sorry, minimum pensions were raised to 200 BGN, and this happened at the beginning of the government, not under the tested Byzantine method, when you manage at the end of the government, so that the next government will take care of how and where he will get that money. That's the fact. [[Applause from OP.]] And from this increase, which, of course, is not a big deal against the background of prices, the condition of the people of the third age, but still this increase took advantage of 823 500 people. This was the result of our firm position that minimum pensions should be increased. On the other hand, we also managed to put the corresponding text in the Programme for Sustainable Governance... for the management of the coalition government by the end of the term of office, and to achieve this figure by chasing and convergence of the minimum pension with the minimum threshold of poverty.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u45	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Are there any other lines? Here you go, Mr. Nikolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u46	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, in retrospect, each party comes out with a specific programme and protects it in order for voters to recognise it and vote for it. Given that no party eventually gathered enough votes to make an independent government, as Mr. Simeonov said, the first and second-in-command parties should be able to make a coalition government. As a result, there is a government made by GERB and the United Patriarchs, BSP are in opposition with their program, with which they could not find enough voters. Nobody pushes them, no negotiations, so BSP changes their program. But what do we observe a year and a half after that? BSP abandoned their program without anyone pressing them without any negotiations and made a new programme. What about a vision for Bulgaria? The old program or the new program? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And now you're explaining. Shouldn't you have explained when the election was supposed to be? Now you're suddenly explaining in some way a deja vu, a new program. In a new way, you explain to people and change some of your election promises, or you develop them, I don't know. I read the program, but anyway, this is a completely different topic. I mean, when the Patriots are trying to reach their goals, though not to the limit, they've achieved something, and what are you doing right now? You are changing what your constituents have given their vote to you. It's hypocrisy to me. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u47	Thank you, Mr. Nikolov. Is there a third line? I can't see. For the doppelganger, Mr. Gokov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u48	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Simeonov and Mr. Nikolov, thank you for your lines. I think you shouldn't have replicated and stayed quiet at all, because you've been lying to people about what you did in 2016 with the budget and it's a little weird now that the facts are being exported... If you want, I can print out the transcripts of who voted how. This is no secret, it is on the website of the National Assembly and journalists can check what it is about... who is telling the truth and who is telling the truth. I remember very well then that you had two proposals with the recalculation of all other pensions, the other proposal was 300 BGN, and somehow you had conveniently missed the recalculation of pensions then. You received full and unreserved support from the parliamentary group of BSP left Bulgaria. Mr. Simeonov, I am glad that you then had a proposal and negotiated behind the government with an opposition party to support some proposal, but remember that you in the previous Parliament supported this government and now support it. It doesn't really matter what we said back then, because it's in the past. I'm only saying this as a matter of fact because I've had enough of this tribune for two years to repeat the same thing. You can continue, but it won't be the same anymore, because there are facts and data from the transcripts. So, about the past, the past. Let's talk about now. Now say: after Philip Popov made a proposal a little while ago for 300 leva. pension, you have the wonderful opportunity to support this proposal, but will you support it? And how many people will you support this proposal with? We'll watch the vote and from now on, when we repeat the mantras that BSP wanted something and didn't want it, we'll watch what you want and what you don't want. I am fully aware of the situation in which you are present that what you want cannot be done because of the big coalition partner. I admire what you did for achieving those 200 levs. In a head-on collision with the coalition partner. Just remember that along with those 200 levs. an increase in those people you claim to be 800,000, they are less, and all those who receive a minimum pension have become 800,000, but I just want to tell you that you have made a very serious problem in the pension system. And that's why you had to go into this fight, except that you raised the minimum pension, you had to at least ask for a minimum recalculation of the other pensions, because that's not fair. I'm running out of time and I can't answer Mr. Nikolov, but he basically didn't have much to say to me except for some excuses that who couldn't do what and what couldn't. Now you're in power, and you're doing what you have to do for the people you promised it to. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u49	Thank you. Any other speeches? Mr. Atalay, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u50	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My fellow Members, I would not have taken the floor, I am not an expert and a specialist in retirement. Mr. Gokov, I don't know what Bismarck said, but I thought of the debate just a while ago when from this tribune those who are currently called OP offered 600 leva. pension. Then, from this tribune, we said populism is a harmful thing, and with these populists GERB made a government. Now we go out on this stand and we say that if it wasn't for O.P., the ground would stop spinning. Colleagues, your populism puts you on that pedestal, where you can see all that you're reflecting. There is no way that just a while ago you won elections with a promise of 500 leva. a pension, and today to go out, it's a good thing they were OP that you happen to have 200 BGN. Retirement. A lot has happened with this OP. [[Radio.]] The state has reached such a size of outrage and nationalist statements, and such a decline that all the way to GERB are wondering how to get out of this situation. You took them out into the street, but you couldn't find the right expression and tell them that in art. 10, t. 2, the number 219,40 lv. It doesn't suit them. They're still so poor, even poorer than when we were in power. What you promised yourself, what you are currently distributing, these portions from the Agency for Foreigners, and it has come to this day to your outrage to refuse to support in art. 10, t. 2, the number 219.43 becomes BGN 300 is a complete outrage. And if today you do not support the number 300, you should go out and explain to GERB, and to everyone in this room why and how you keep our parents underprivileged with whom you won the elections. Then, if you want to do another populism, let's offer 600 BGN for you today. What will you do then? Colleagues, from DPS we offer in item. Art. 2, Art. 10 numbers 219 to be 300 leva. My language is beginning to loosen and I will explain to you how much more outrageous you are. The support of GERB is unreserved to you in what you are doing. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u51	Are there any lines? Here you are, Mr. Simeonov, for the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u52	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Ramadan, another manipulator of the National Assembly's stand, unfortunately. Nowhere, never in the election campaign of the United Patriarchs was there the figure 500 leva. minimum pension. Three hundred! That's the only thing that's been going on, not 600, not 500. So stick to the facts. Yes, well that they were the United Patriarchs, I will say this once again to raise the minimum pensions................................... the shamefully low minimum pensions in Bulgaria. As sad as you may be, it is a fact, despite all the relevant ones, I would say, not particularly favorable consequences for others. That's what we've done, Mr. Gokov! That's what we've done! Let's see what you do.! It was a good thing that the MP and we didn't have a second pro-Turkish party in parliament. It's gone! And you went to fourth place! [[Applause and cheering from OP: "Bravo! "]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u53	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Another line? I won't. Will there be a hole? Here you are, Mr. Atalay. [[Voices by "United Patriarchs": "Op, op, op.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u54	Yes, you became the third political party and just a week ago you sat in this place! Thank you. [[(Radio, applause.) National Representative Julian Angelov wants the floor.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u55	There's a statement. Mr. Angelov, you're next. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u56	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Honourable representatives of the Patriots Group! I will repeat your proposal, after which 318 thousand voters voted. You lied to them again when you made an offer in the hall for 300 leva. A minimum pension from you voted only 13 people. In the same way you told 318 thousand voters that the minimum pension will be 300 BGN and currently it is 219 BGN. It's far below BGN 300. I will say to the management: 1 290 000 Bulgarian pensioners - you are currently patting in the chest that you give 40 leva for them. Christmas supplements. I don't know! That's £40. will not be enough for increased electricity prices, even though you pat yourself in the chest, that you give money and support for heating. [[Noise and lines from OP and GERB.]] They won't have enough! These 1, 290 000 Bulgarian pensioners live below the poverty line. Don't forget that! The only fair solution in this case is an increase in the minimum pension and a recalculation of all pensions, because the scissors are huge. [[Extreme noise and lines from OP.]] The elderly who worked for 40 years and imported into the social security system are currently living on the verge of poverty. And this should be your signal lamp every day, which should wake you up and make you reconsider your policies with regard to the elderly! What do I tell the Patriots? You lied to 318,000 voters, you keep lying to them. It is high time, after all all Bulgarian voters, all Bulgarian citizens will understand what is consistent, which is the fair recalculation of all pensions. And never again to believe in this patriotic formation, of which only 13 people, I repeat, voted on the proposal to raise the minimum wage a year ago.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u57	Don't scream! We hear you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u58	Allow me to raise my voice because, Mr. Chairman, on the right side of this House, people do not know how to behave, and they are MPs. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u59	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u60	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mrs. Klisurska, I cannot agree with you that you are blaming the United Patriarchs for not standing up for their election promise just for 300 levs. minimum pension. They also said how this pension will become 300 leva. They also had a second focus on their election promise. Therefore, if you can ask them from this tribune: in a year and eight months, how many pensions have been taken away so far from the so-called illegal, fraudulent invalids? Why hasn't this been done since they've been in the station for a year and a half? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u61	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Is there another line? I can't see. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u62	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr Nedyalkov, thank you for the line. Do you remember where the money would come from for what you promised? From the suspended concessions! Remember?! And now you give the concession to Sofia Airport! And that should also be written in red letters. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u63	Thank you. To speak, Mr. Angelov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u64	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! It's bad when someone gets a new haircut and screams out of the stands and thinks they understand a lot. [[(Radio.) Loud noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u65	Mr. Angelov!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u66	When someone is talking, they really need to check the facts, because from the "United Patriarchs" we are consistent in what we are doing, including for false disability pensions, there has been a change in the Regulation and it has been working for several months now. If you don't know this, then it's worse for you. That is, you are not familiar and you do not know what is happening in the country, but you want to manage and give assessments. There was also talk about our constituents. Of these 318,000, only 20% were retired. If you are not aware of this, let me tell you this, there are data from the sociological agencies. We didn't count on lying to the pensioners to win elections or win votes. We have proposed what we think is right. What is worse, however, is that we have just heard from this tribune how representatives of the BSP say that raising the minimum pension that we have made has not stopped-and-stopped! That's what Mr. Gokov said. Explain it to those few hundred thousand who are taking a minimum pension that it is not fair to raise the minimum pension. That this is unfair! Get out there and explain it on the street. Say, "You are unfairly taking 220 BGN next year, you should take 150 as much as Oresharski gave you. [[Loud noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u67	Why are you screaming?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u68	As much as Oresharski gave you! You have to take 150 leva, you won't take 220 leva. That's unfair. Go out and explain it, because that's what you think. Here, you've shown your true face BSP. You showed that you wanted to keep people poor and miserable. We're doing what we can because we've been voted so much. If we had 121 MPs, we would do everything we have made as a commitment. What did you do but lie and manipulate?! I haven't seen anything substantial from you. You can't even come up with new proposals, copy those of the United Patriarchs. Well, think of something, ladies and gentlemen of the BSP. You want to manage together with your colleagues from the DPS, you want to manage together in the next term. [[Reply from the National Representative Georgi Gokov.]] Here we have heard other illiterate speeches. There is no such thing, Mr. Atalay! Where is this foreign agency? Where is this foreign agency?! How can you come out of this tribune and speak illiterately?! It's illiterate! Finally, I will finish only for your future coalition partner DPS. I've said it from this tribune: we can be bad, we can be all kinds of things, but we're consistent and we do something about the state and we protect national interests. [[Extremely loud noise and lines.]] But DPS, DPS, or as people say: de graze, grass doesn't grow.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u69	Thank you. Are there any lines? [[The National Representative Ramadan Atalay wants the floor for a personal explanation.]] First of all, we're done with the speech procedure. Three lines have already been stated. Mr. Gokov, please specify yourself with Mr. Popov. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u70	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I thought I'd take a personal explanation so Mr. Angelov wouldn't be able to throw brains out of the stands, but there are other lines, and I'll explain it to you, Mr. Angelov. I think getting hysterical from the stands and waving your hands doesn't make you stronger. The insult you made to your colleague that she was screaming from the stands, you were screaming three times as much as she was. Essentially, Mr. Angelov, although your line had nothing to do with what we are looking at in today's budget. I very clearly want to hear all MPs, if you will through the media and people in Bulgaria: I and BSP argue that the increase of the minimum pension, only and only of the minimum pension, violates the principles of insurance. It is necessary, together with the increase of the minimum pension, to increase everyone else in proportion. This can best be achieved by recalculating all pensions with average social security income from a later year. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] And when you ask what we did for these people? Well, we've done a lot, Mr. Angelov. At the time of the bad coalition, which you blamed so much, everyone's pensions rose by 108% on average, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Angelov, in 2007 we recalculated all the pensions of all Bulgarian pensioners! Then, Mr. Angelov, I ask you a question: can you imagine what pension the Bulgarian pensioner would have had now, at the moment, if the pensions had not been recalculated in 2007? Can you imagine, Mr. Angelov, if your coalition partner hadn't violated the Bulgarian legislation, once again I am paying attention to you in art. 100 of the Social Security Code, and it was updated in the previous term 2009 - 2013, four years with 5% each, under the Swiss rule, the pensions of Bulgarian citizens would now be 20% higher, Mr. Angelov. There is much to tell you what we have done, but very little you can tell me what you have done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u71	Mr. Gokov, thank you. Mr. Ademov, second line, third line, Mrs. Angelova. Here you go, Mr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u72	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Angelov, it is with great surprise that I understand that, apart from passports, you also know about pensions. [[Laughter and applause from DPS and from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I want to tell you something that you need to remember. What you have done is an element of social assistance, not social security, because you take from everyone to give to those who are the poorest. It's another system. The social security system wants there to be justice so that there is no harm to the sense of justice, because in Bulgaria we are overly fair, overly solidarity and that is where the sense of injustice comes from. What do I mean? Those who receive a minimum amount of pension must not, during the insurance, increase their pensions. We have to go through support because the system of insurance has its own principles and rules. When you break these rules, then we come to what is at the moment - we raise pensions with a political decision, because the minimum amount of pension is a political solution, but we do not take into account the fact that 70. 80% of those people who receive a minimum amount do not have the necessary social contribution to receive, which requires redistribution, and this affects the sense of justice, dear Mr. Angelov. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u73	Thank you, Mr. Ademov. Third line, come in, you have the floor, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u74	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Angelov, in your speech you forgot to say that this has been repeated several times the increase in 2008 from 20% we paid it in 2009 In the worst year of economic crisis you have lost [[Applause from GERB]] Bulgarian citizens then. When you managed in 2013 and 2014, when you had the opportunity to make the budget of state social security for 2014, what did you do, honourable Members on the left? You increased the pensions by 2.7%, increased the minimum pension by BGN 4.50. It's 150 BGN. At 154 leva. Then, Mr. Gokov, why didn't you, when you were managing, propose a recalculation of all pensions with income from previous years? Then why didn't you? We know that you are kings of populism, bankruptcy and deficits, but do not deceive Bulgarian citizens [[Applause from GERB]] That you can spend more than you have. [[Applause and cheering from GERB: Bravo! Bravo! "Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u75	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. We're gonna finish the doppelganger procedure. Wait a minute. Those were the lines. For the duplicate the word has Mr. Angelov, then the personal explanations that were requested. Here you go, Mr. Angelov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u76	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Thanks for the passionate lines. Mr. Gokov hadn't understood yet. I wasn't making a line, but a statement, Mr. Gokov, otherwise you couldn't have made a line in general. When you go out on that stand, you need to know what procedure you're talking about. I will remind you of the facts, you are specialists in making pensions in Bulgaria three dollars. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You're the biggest specialists. [[Applause from OP and GERB]] , bigger specialists than you to make the pension three dollars there is no in this country! Even the DPS can't do this thing! [[Applause and laughter from OP and GERB.]] Even the DPS can't do it! [[Applause from OP and GERB.]] Such incompetence and incompetence is nowhere else! Three dollars pension, remember that? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You don't remember him! Well, if you don't remember him. I'll say it again. Mr. Gokov, it has become clear to me and let everyone who receives a minimum pension in Bulgaria, BSP says that they undeservedly have an increase in the amount of the minimum pension, it is not fair because they have no time served! That's not true! People had 40 years of service and took 160 leva. pension, it's a fact! Why are you lying from this tribune? For a colleague from DPS, Mr. Ademov, about passports, you have to answer, and you have to answer elsewhere because under your management thousands of the Republic of Turkey, which are under the exodus agreements, received Bulgarian citizenship. Who was pushing in that direction? When you talk about passports and passport mafia, remember what you were doing then, and we, the United Patriarchs, stopped them in the last parliament. All these expatriates from the Republic of Turkey, we stopped them, and that's a fact, and that's why it hurts! What lies to draw, the Bulgarian national interest, while the United Patriarchs rule, will be above everything and you will not get the deals! [[Applause from OP and GERB. Noise and lines from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u77	Thank you. Personal explanation and manner of conduct. Then Mr. Ivanov's statement. A personal explanation, Mr. Atalay? [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u78	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues... [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u79	Can I have some peace and quiet in the hall? We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u80	For now, I'm still Atalay, if you have anything else in mind, it won't happen to you. I think the only argument that my colleague in this tribune presented was only his high tone. After I found out from his literate statement that he didn't know anything but passports, and in all those things that were going on about passports, I realized that wherever the DPS went, grass didn't grow.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u81	That's right!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u82	Colleagues, where you went, there was only corruption...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u83	Mr. Atalay, we're listening to a personal explanation, excuse me.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u84	My personal explanation, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u85	Go back to the procedure. What is it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u86	My personal explanation... I can tell you that if after what's going to happen after the next election, what you did as a fence, it seems to me that you're only going to keep the fence, with a lot of people from here, we won't be able to see each other. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u87	Thank you. Mr. Gokov also asked for a personal explanation. Here you go, Mr. Gokov. [[Noise and lines from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u88	Do me a line, there's no right to a personal explanation!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u89	Mr. Angelov gets horny again. I'll explain myself to Mrs. Angelova. When she mentioned me, I raised my hand to the moment... [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u90	I get it, yeah, yeah. Sorry, not the line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u91	Explain it to Mr. Angelov if he wants to know. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] Really?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u92	Mr. Angelov, let's hear it. In due course, please. [[Relations from the National Representative Julian Angelov.]] Please. We're listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u93	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Now, in order to reassure Mr. Angelov not to become so inflamed, I will say that my personal explanation is to Mrs. Angelova, she mentioned my name to me unfoundedly in her reply to you. She asked me a question: what did I do to raise pensions during Oresharski's time? Well, I was then a MP and we restored the Swiss rule to art. 100 of the Social Security Code, which four years, Mr. Angelov, was not applied by Finance Minister Simeon Djankov at the previous government, Mrs. Angelova. [[Noise and lines.]] That's my personal explanation to you. When you say we paid them, did you take them out of your pocket, Mrs. Angelova, that money? [[Noise and lines from GERB.]] Did you take them out of your pocket for handing them out to these people, or did you collect them from everyone to give out pensions?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u94	Mr. Gokov, this is about your personal explanation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u95	The last thing I want to say is, stop suggesting here, whoever Mrs. Angelova and Mr. Angelov are against increasing minimum pensions. Once again and for the last time, BSP is about recalculating all pensions, because this is the fair one. The minimum pension must be increased because by 200 leva. There is no way for a Bulgarian citizen to live, but if it is 212 BGN. and pay for her medicine, her warmth, and not to be poor, and to survive on the brink of everything. Stop suggesting this on behalf of BSP, that's not true! We want an increase in the minimum pension, but a proportional increase in all other pensions according to their social contribution. That's my personal explanation and stop speculating about it!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u96	Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Mr. Letifov, in the manner of conduct. Here you are, Mr. Letifov, you have the floor in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u97	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct it, and it's all about you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u98	I'm listening.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u99	First, to tell you the truth, Mr. Gokov did not make a mistake by saying the line, because essentially Mr. Angelov's statement was a line. There was nothing to the substance of her statement on the article we were looking at. Then came Mrs. Angelova, who made a line of Mr. Angelov's line, and when Mr. Atalay came out, you got goose bumps in the back, didn't say anything else. So, whoever yells more than O.P., you encourage him over time for at least one minute on top. I ask you to follow the Rules of Procedure even to colleagues from the OP who are from your parliamentary group. I understand their DPS fiction and the desire to look like a DPS at this rate, and with this behavior it can't happen, I'm sorry. Please follow all the rules. Thank you. [[Applause from DPS.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u100	The call to comply with the Rules is always up to date, but I did not understand the particular occasion. Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u101	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, I appeal to you in the manner of conduct, as you did not allow Mrs. Angelova to practically repeat the line rather than the line of Mr. Angelov's speech. It is right for you not to allow such a procedure, or if you allow it, to remind Mrs. Angelova who reached into the Silver Fund. That wasn't Mr. Djankov, because we're talking about pensions. Secondly, regarding the speech, also with a rather large pathos, of Mr. Angelov, it is also appropriate to remind him how the national interest is defended, and this does not happen categorically through the sale of the most expensive of Bulgarian citizenship. If you want to, make a reference, Mr. Angelov, in "EURO AKTIV" everything there is written about you, about the whole OP. [[Reply from MP Julian Angelov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u102	In the manner of conduct, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u103	Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u104	Yes, Mr. Popov. I hope you understand that I cannot interfere with the content of these speeches. So to remind and direct the speech is not possible from this tribune. You're welcome to join us in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u105	Mr. President, you are really allowing speeches and suggestions to be made in the way of the procedure. What Mr. Popov did right now was disgusting. Can a lie you're repeating from this tribune, think it's true...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u106	Mr. Angelov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u107	What they are doing should not be allowed, because all that has happened to these problems is thanks to their rule during the time of Oresharski, who refused to recognise the Bulgarians from Macedonia as Bulgarians, and the people from Turkey were nicer to them, it is a fact! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u108	Mr. Angelov, thank you. It wasn't my address, but we're done with this procedure. Is there a statement? Mr. Ivan Ivanov wants the floor... [[Noise and lines.]] Yeah, the way you run it? Have a little more patience, Mr. Ivanov. Come in, Mr. Atanasov. I'm listening to you in the manner of conduct. Let's limit ourselves to that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u109	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! I'm going to lower her level of emotion a little bit as a lawyer, and 26 other lawyers in this Parliament are in total, and you yourself, Mr. Notev, are one. I will have to tell you that in this Parliament, a large part of the MPs have been charged by the prosecution. Does that mean we have to condemn them before there's a judgment? Everyone is innocent until proven guilty. You can see how many charges are subsequently dropped in court and the judges have given a sentence of not guilty. Then will you apologize to these people here, from Parliament, who you now condemn as guilty? My request is this: pronounce yourself when there is a judgment in force. Otherwise, we look like a system known 70 years ago, in another big country, Soviet Russia, prosecutor Vishinski, you know Stalin's personal prosecutor when there you have to prove you're innocent, that's the perverse... and Thomas Torquemada did the same thing five centuries ago. [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u110	Mr. Atanasov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u111	That's the way it is, because I refer to Mr. Notev as a lawyer. [[Heckling]] You can't, colleagues, until there's a verdict in force, you're condemning people! Remember that thing, it's not right!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u112	Thank you, Mr. Atanasov. Once again, I am convinced that the procedure is really not used for its intended purpose. I'm asking you very much to take this into account. Mr. Ivanov asked for the floor. Here's your speech, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u113	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! After this patriotic drive in the fall of the quality of life of Bulgarian citizens, let's go back to the reality of what is written in the texts of art. 10. I cannot understand why the main culprits for the serious condition of the Bulgarian pensioners, namely the ruling main party GERB, are silent and do not take any attitude. They used to play lines and banter a couple of times around here and stuff. Second day, we don't hear the minister say a word about it. We do not hear the specialists of GERB to open a story about what they think about the quality of life of Bulgarian pensioners. We're thinking about the size of the minimum pension right now. I'm sorry, but this is a live mockery. The colleague Popov made an editorial proposal for 300 BGN, at least to make a small gesture for these people, although this does not solve the problem at all. The problem solves the recalculation of pensions. Here the main culprits for this burden, for this grave condition of Bulgarian pensioners, are precisely the real authors of this text. And these aren't those Patriots there, in the corner of the hall, who here tell us how they wanted to make the pension 300 or 400 BGN, they just have no say. The main culprits are the ruling by GERB because they are the authors, they have written the text here. Neither the Minister hears what he says, nor the Social Commission, where the overwhelming majority are representatives of GERB, nor anyone. Say something, people! Behind these proposals we all know that there are even heavier burdens and worse days for Bulgarian pensioners. We've said it, an increase in the price of electricity, the heat, the wood, no social packages, all this stuff goes into their pocket. Where is this increase of seven leva and sixty pennies going? It goes into the monopoly pocket and there is no compensation in that direction. Take some attitude! At least support the minimum pension to become 300 BGN. Support further our texts to recalculate these pensions, because whatever you say to us, the only recalculation was during the Triple Coalition. And these people have been getting 1.50 BGN for so many years, 2 BGN each. Some ridiculous amounts that really are a mockery. Here you have been told that a million and three hundred Bulgarian pensioners live on the edge of survival, medicines can not buy. Yesterday we accepted the budget of the Health Insurance Fund. What happened out there?! No opportunities for these people to survive. I wonder if they'll make it out this winter.! [[Noise and lines.]] Let's hear what you think! Enough of this squabbling here! We've seen what patriotism in pensions means, but let's finally hear what the Ministry thinks, what the government thinks. To say eventually, will we have pensioners in a year or two or not?! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u114	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? Mr. Angelov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u115	Mr. Ivanov, I couldn't understand the position of your parliamentary group. I'm replicating you to find out what you really want. You want to index all pensions without raising the minimum pension because it's unfair to others, or you want to raise the minimum pension, which is unfair to you, but you want it? I can't figure out exactly what you want to do, because there's a little difference in that. [[(Voices from BSP for Bulgaria]] If you only want an indexation of all pensions, because this is the fair way, i.e. those who have a minimum pension at the moment will quite minimally increase and will not become either 300 BGN or 250 BGN, that is to say you are contradicting each other. Your MPs are questioning one of them that raising the minimum pension is unfair, and now you are proposing actually raising the minimum pension. What's fair, what's not fair?! In what way do you want to solve the problem of Bulgarian pensioners, I did not understand because you expressed different positions. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Here, I'm debating the subject we're talking about. I'm not talking about socialism, about something else, like you want to bring patriotism and so on. Understand, first among yourselves in your parliamentary group what you want to happen. Get it together! Because what we have done is from next year all Bulgarian pensioners will have nearly 6% increase. Over 800,000 Bulgarian pensioners will have their minimum pension over BGN 220, that is the truth. [[Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u116	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Mr. Popov, the line. Mr. Popov, I recall that your line should be directed to Mr. Ivanov's speech, not to Mr. Angelov's reply.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u117	Of course, to Mr. Angelov's line what you said, I have no relation. Mr. Ivanov will decide whether he will respond at all and whether he will be able to explain it to him. This is probably a difficult, impossible task for our intellectual push. Dear Mr. Ivanov, the proposal in the budget they offer is for 219 BGN. pension. Divide it into 30 days. 7 BGN. a day per person, about seven levs and something. How do you live with 7 leva?! Because this is where you throw a percentage of 6%, and here's the truth. a day. The one who gets a minimum pension must live with 7 leva. Every day! Ask the government here how to live with 7 leva. A day? Of course they don't know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u118	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there another line? I won't. Mr. Ivanov, can you use your coat? You have the floor for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u119	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Angelov, first of all, I think that literacy comes first and you should learn to read carefully the texts that we have imported. Secondly, I don't know why you're going out to make a line at all, because it's not up to you. You are yet another part of the so-called patriotic lies. There was a movie "Patriotic Games" with you is..........................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u120	Mr. Ivanov...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u121	The only way to get out of this ridiculous situation is to support what the BSP is proposing. You are looking at what we are voting for, and you are voting for. The main culprits, again I say, about the created situation are the ruling by GERB and they take no relation. Yes, Mr. Popov, you are very right, because this increase will come after paying the winter bills by paying the expensive wood by paying the expensive electricity, the expensive steam and eventually these seven levs will be taken in the advance they will have to give, by the end of the year people will be obliged. That's BGN 217. They won't be there, because the drugs will have increased with the new drug policy. It's the truth! Genocide over the Bulgarian pensioner is a fact. That's it! By the end of the year, you may expect there to be no pensioners to relieve the pension system. That's what I expect from you. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u122	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any speeches? Mr. Gurnevsky, for a statement? [[Noise.]] Mr. Gurnevsky withdrew his request for a statement. There are no other speeches. We shall close the deliberations under Article. Ten and we're going to vote. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of MPs Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 171 MPs: 84, against 65, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. Mr. Kutev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u123	I'm asking for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u124	Dear MPs, we will repeat the vote on Mr. Kutev's proposal. Revoting the proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs for the content of art. 10. They voted 177 MPs: 87, against 67, abstention 23. The offer is not accepted. We are going to vote on the amendment proposed by Mr Popov to the text submitted in the Commission Report. We vote on Mr. Philip Popov's proposal. Vote 177 MPs: 87, against 82, abstention 8. The offer is not accepted. It's a re-vote. Here you go, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u125	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I'm offering you a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u126	Thank you. We are re-voting the proposal of MP Philip Popov the editorial amendment proposed by him. Vote 186 MPs: for 89, against 79, abstention 18. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the import text of the Commission Report proposed for art. 10. They voted 193 MPs: for 110, against 65, abstention 18. The motion is accepted. Negative vote. Mr. Nedyalkov wants to explain his negative vote on the text of art. 10. You have the floor, Mr Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u127	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen! I would like to say that with this amount of minimum pension, we are deepening the process that more and more, especially in rural shops and shops, stop at the end of the month giving products to people who want. Since we're always talking in numbers, I want you to figure out what the increase from the middle of the year is? According to you, the minimum pension is raised from 207.60 to 219.43. Divided into 180 days by the end of the year, you should know that the increase is extremely large Thank you for what you did. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u128	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Mrs. Angelova, come in, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u129	Under art. 11 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "VII." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the figure The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u130	Are there any speeches? Mr. Gokov, come in. A next statement has already been made. Third speech, Mrs. Zhekova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u131	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I hope that you are aware that overall unemployment benefit is an essential element of all European social systems. Even though in Bulgaria unemployment benefit is basically a dirty word. Workers and employees are provided against the risk of losing their jobs and this should provide protection for them and their families and help their income when they have lost their jobs and are looking for a new job. You give them peace and opportunity to spend more time finding a new job that corresponds to their education, qualifications and health, as well as their skills and expectations. You give them time and opportunity to requalify. This unemployment benefit helps alleviate the problem of lack of skilled labour and increase economic growth, if you will. Therefore, in the first vote of the state social security budget, I drew attention to the fact that despite the increased amounts of minimum wage and maximum social income, the minimum daily unemployment allowance of BGN 9 is frozen. and the maximum size of BGN 74,29 This violates all the principles and norms established by the Social Security Code. Not to mention that this is a neglect of the recommendations and requirements of Convention No 102 of the International Labour Organisation for Social Security of 1952. For the misunderstandings, this is not aid, it is compensation, and the purpose of a compensation is to provide a certain income from work when the insurance event occurs, in this case unemployment, compensation to replace this income from work in an adequate manner. These levels of unemployment benefits, which are established by the budget for the state social security.. 9 BGN minimum daily amount, which makes 189 BGN. monthly, in no case may it be considered adequate or adequate substitute for labour income. To make it clear what I'm talking about, I'll make a few comparisons. Minimum daily average amount of unemployment benefit for 2019 9 leva. per day, i.e. BGN 189. a month. This will be a total of 33.75% of the minimum wage you are predicting for 2019. BGN 560 Last year it was at least 37% and last year it was 40,53%. And just because of the comparisons you very much like to make, I will go back to the distant 2008 Triple Coalition to tell you that then the minimum compensation was 63% of the minimum wage. And now, after 10 years, GERB is 33.75% of the minimum wage, which is not for applause at all. You should be impressed that this compensation is only about half of the official line of poverty for 2019, which you set at BGN 348. It is unacceptable to treat the unemployed who have been properly provided and provided. If we follow the logic of determining this compensation established by the Social Security Code, which has an upper limit of 60% of the average insurance income of the person with a minimum wage of 560 BGN, the minimum daily amount of the unemployment benefit must be at least 16 BGN. Our country has a commitment by 2020 to reduce the number of people living at risk of poverty, so it is unacceptable for the insurance system to generate poverty, and this frozen amount of compensation does so. It is not that with other benefits and pensions the insurance system does not generate poverty and does not dissolve the scissors of inequality, but it is now unacceptable here. If the logic and rules for determining the amount of unemployment benefit are respected, a change in its maximum amount should also be changed, and in the case of planned insurance income from you to 3000 BGN. to be established at BGN 85.71 and the average daily compensation I told you should be at least BGN 16 I'll say it again. [[GERB's line: "No need! "]] , such an approach to freezing unemployment benefits is unacceptable and justice requires, and that is why our alternative proposal is after the legislation sets the upper limit of compensations to 60% of the average social security income of the person, to determine the lower limit of 60% of the minimum wage, the minimum social security income of 16% per day. Otherwise, the motivation for the need to provide for such low benefits, which are below the poverty line, is devoid of consideration. There is a need, Mrs. Angelova, to make an adequate vote. At the end of this, I'd like to congratulate our friends from...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u132	Wait, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u133	... The French Parliament. The delegation that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u134	Mr. Gokov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u135	...I suppose you'll be announcing it yourself. Greetings. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u136	Supposedly, yeah. Thank you, Mr. Gokov. Dear MPs, guests of parliament today are our colleagues from the Friendship Group with Bulgaria at the National Assembly of the French Republic, led by its Chairman. [[All rise and greet guests with applause.]] The French parliamentarians are on an official visit to our country. Please welcome them to the Bulgarian National Assembly! Let's move on. Are there any lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I won't. Are there any other statements? Mrs. Jeleva, come in. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u137	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! The colleague before me quite well, motivated, explained why we offer a higher threshold or higher compensation per unemployment day. From what has been said so far and from the debate before, we see that there is nothing social, nothing fair in our proposed budget for state social security, and then, in the next topic. The first injustice will increase the maximum insurance income, but we freeze the maximum compensation per day. It's not logical, it's not fair. The other injustice is 9 BGN. per day, or about 180 leva. a month. In this way, the insurance system actually guarantees extreme poverty for the people who have provided themselves for it and have made their contributions to the Unemployment Fund. By dropping out of work, a Bulgarian citizen, given that the minimum wage for the next year, is BGN 560, as you will probably accept it, will be about 32 " 33%." And that compensation should be 60%. If he was providing himself on the minimum wage, it should be 60%, as we suggest. You're not going to accept this offer, as you've proved before, and since we've been talking about percentages, I want to tell you here at the end of the day. Every Bulgarian citizen will be harmed every month by 160 BGN. for not getting 60% of his work compensation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u138	Thank you, dear Mrs. Jeleva. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u139	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! I ask my next question to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and he is related to this proposal under art. 11, because, as you can see, colleagues, there is no one on the right side of this House to come out and argue the proposals that we are now looking at. Dear Minister, why are these restrictive measures on social security rights related to short-term benefits? As you can see, if you notice at all, in art. 7, which passed just now, we voted the Unemployment Fund, and if you notice the figures in it, you will see an increase in the cost share, but the levels of short-term benefits remain the same. How, gentlemen, when you increase the minimum social security income, the minimum wage, the maximum social security income, they remain unchanged? One more question. If we look at the data of the National Statistical Institute and the NSI, last year there were 29,000 fewer unemployed at the end of the year, which shows a reduction in unemployed people. Nevertheless, we are seeing the increased spending part of the Fund of Pensions and we are not moving the compensation for short-term benefits at all. My question is this: last year, with the state social security budget, if you remember, we increased the time limits on which people are entitled to go and receive such compensation. Last year people should have worked nine consecutive months, they should have worked 12 consecutive months already. And we give them crumbs. Nine leva is the compensation received by unemployed persons who are released on almost all grounds of the Labour Code! Nine leva a month makes 180 leva. We are talking about unemployed from all kinds of qualification economic activities, we are talking about unemployed people who go there, not to receive their compensation, but ultimately not always everyone who is in employment gets the adequate work of what he can give, the adequate work based on his competences. That is why it is possible for anyone who has imported into the insurance system who has submitted to the insurance system to receive such compensation. Last year, the government's arguments for the increase in unemployment benefits were exactly the same. We raise the minimum wage, so it is also imperative that we raise the short-term unemployment benefit. But we're not holding him. The adequate offer is to grow, and what we do with our proposal is to grow from 9 to 16 BGN, in line with the growth of the minimum wage, in line with the growth of the maximum insurance income, in line with the growth of the minimum insurance income, in order to have justice and in order for people who go to the employment offices to receive their adequate compensation on the basis of the contributions they have paid. I will also say two sentences regarding the maximum unemployment benefit. How is it that when you increase the maximum social security income, you don't move the maximum unemployment benefit? The fair thing is to be proportionate to what you do as an increase. I expect the answers from you, Mr. Minister, on the first questions I asked for the revenue part of the state social security budget, on the thresholds for basic economic activities and this issue, which is related to short-term benefits. I hope that, by the end of this meeting, by the end of the examination of the state social security budget, at least in this House, we will receive the normal answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u140	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I won't. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Angelova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u141	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We will not support this proposal by the BSP parliamentary group. We have enough serious arguments not to support the increase in the minimum daily amount of unemployment benefit and the maximum daily amount of unemployment benefit. As long as there is a permanent one year unemployment in Bulgaria is at the lowest levels for 10 years............................................................ in the IT sector....................................................................................................................................................................................... You want to increase the minimum unemployment benefit. This is ridiculous! That is, you want to stimulate the occupation of unemployed, namely instead of making people quickly realize on the labour market with this shortage of labour, you propose to increase the unemployment benefit significantly, Bulgarian citizens should stay home and receive unemployment benefits and we should import labour from third countries. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] This comes out practically. Next, you did not say who in Bulgaria received minimum unemployment benefits. These groups of categories of workers and employees get it. First, upon termination of the employment relationship at the request of the employee or for his guilty conduct, that is to say disciplinary punishment, and when the employee has decided to terminate the employment relationship himself. There is a third hypothesis at the initiative of the employer against an agreed compensation, i.e. compensation between 4 and 6 salaries. Only in these three cases workers on termination of employment receive this minimum unemployment benefit. Everyone else gets another order. But you don't say that! So, we should stimulate those who do not want to work, who have quit work, who are disciplinaryly fired or those who have negotiated with the employer and have taken together 4 or 6 salaries, we should stimulate them by increasing their compensation and staying at home, not working, but being dependent on the state. There is no way to support this proposal by BSP colleagues. It is devoid of any logic and is not relevant to the actual state of the labor market in Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u142	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. First line, Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u143	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Dear Mrs. Naydenova, what you said about stimulating people to work, I give you a simple example. Lawyer at a firm, starts, works on grounds of art. 70 in favour of the employer, which is within 6 months. Dear Mrs. Naydenova, a qualified person working, does not receive the relevant, how to say, agreed working conditions and the corresponding remuneration, under art. 70 the lawyer concerned shall have the right to leave, respectively, and the employer shall have the right at any time to terminate his relationship. He has the relevant qualifications, worked consecutively for 12 calendar months and goes to the Bureau of Labour, not to receive the corresponding compensation, although he has contributed his insurance, but to find an equal job for the qualification he receives. The other grounds, Mrs. Naydenova, which you commented were at the request of the worker, according to art. 325 When the mutual employment agreement is terminated, anyone entitled to go and receive short-term compensation shall receive the minimum short-term compensation. We're talking about all the qualifying groups here. Just because he leaves the workplace by mutual agreement does not mean that he ultimately wishes not to work, but simply wishes to receive what was agreed in his employment relationship, but does not receive it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u144	The weather, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u145	Enter these hypotheses! Under art. 326, when the worker is terminated with notice, it is still because it does not meet what is given to him as working conditions.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u146	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u147	So, Mrs. Naydenova, when you mentioned the third countries, follow the statistics...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u148	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u149	I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u150	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u151	Third-country workers are underqualified.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u152	Mrs. Klisurska!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u153	Time, time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u154	And here we're talking about people who work their jobs, who want to work for what they've been studying for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u155	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any other lines? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u156	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mrs. Angelova, you probably did not hear when I told you that unemployment benefits are an essential element of all European social systems, but not of the Bulgarian systems. Because in Bulgaria he manages GERB and everyone in GERB think like you, Mrs. Angelova. I said in my speech the main thing about unemployment benefits. In Bulgaria unemployment benefit is a dirty word because you made it such and now with all your speech you confirm my thesis. Low levels of unemployment, labour shortages, jobless profession, what does this have to do with the insurance system and with the provision of people? I'm making sure there's an insurance risk. In this case, this insurance risk is unemployment and you are explaining to me because it was low unemployment, I must not receive adequate compensation!? Are you aware that the benefits are intended to be so adequate that in most part they replace the income from the work they receive? Or is that none of your business? It is important for you to condemn people that they are unemployed and give them low benefits. It must be very nice, but somehow it doesn't work! Do you know, by telling me about the qualified in Bulgaria, how many percent of them receive minimum unemployment benefits? Check with the National Statistical Institute, they will tell you what is the percentage of the minimum compensation received. So these mantras that you mention here about importing labour, solving unemployment problems, the shortage of labour through the insurance system, you're very confusing this job and you're far from the truth. So when we've adopted some principles in the Social Security Code for 60% of what we're doing, we're going to follow them!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u157	The weather, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u158	Yeah, I'm coming. We will also respect them when determining the minimum compensation and when determining the maximum compensation, because no one is talking about the maximum compensation when you care a lot about these high income groups, but you should mention that you are also limiting the maximum compensation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u159	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u160	And you tie the hands of those who worked abroad and wish to receive their unemployment benefit in Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u161	Is there a third line? I won't. For the coat, Mrs. Angelova, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u162	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I turn to the replicating Mrs. Klisurska and Mr. Gokov in your lines I did not see any logic and competence to protect your proposal. You are manipulating Bulgarian citizens again by talking about unemployment benefit. We are currently talking about minimum daily unemployment allowance and maximum daily unemployment benefit. The minimum daily unemployment benefit, Mrs. Klisurska, is obtained from three groups. I'd like to repeat them once again, you've obviously read the Labour Code and the Social Security Code a little bit. [[Radio in BSP for Bulgaria and shouts: "Eee! "]] You have many gaps in this regard. [[Noise and lines in BSP for Bulgaria.]] One and a half years on the Social Committee is short. [[Laughter and lines in "BSP for Bulgaria."]] The minimum daily unemployment benefit is obtained in three cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u163	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u164	At the request of the worker and the employee to terminate the employment or service in the event of disciplinary punishment. The third case is when the worker and the employee agree with the employer against payment of compensation between 4 and 6 salaries.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u165	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u166	We're talking minimum daily compensation only in these three cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u167	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u168	What do you suggest? You want people to work or stay at home on the alimony of the state and receive benefits from the state.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u169	That's not true!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u170	Is that what you're stimulating? Are you stimulating unemployment or the labor market? Absolutely unacceptable proposal without any logic. We cannot support this proposal! [[National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova wants the floor.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u171	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. You can't use a personal explanation after you've done lines and you've got a douche bag!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u172	Procedure!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u173	Please, Mr. Gokov! Come in the manner of conduct!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u174	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Madam President, in the form of a procedure in the manner of holding you shall stop when no truths are spoken from this tribune. I say this with the clear awareness that I am partly violating the procedure, but we cannot mislead all Bulgarian citizens by speaking out of this tribune from the level of my own incompetence. The minimum compensation is not obtained only in these three cases, but in a number of other cases.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u175	The lead can't assess anyone's competence and his sense of whether he's readable enough or not.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u176	Of course it is, only that Bulgarian citizens should not be misled.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u177	Thank you, you've abused the procedure. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. We are voting on Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal, not supported by the Commission. Vote 139 MPs: 52, against 72, abstention 15. The offer is not accepted. We vote on the text of the importer as art. 11. They voted 145 MPs: for 89, against 54, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Honourable Members, a 30-minute break follows, and then we will continue to work with the following texts. (After the break.) We start with one message: Today, on 28 November 2018, it was received and will be sent to the MPs A general draft of the draft laws amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act adopted on the first vote on 23 November 2018. The project was prepared by the Committee on Transport, Information Technology and Communications on the grounds of art. 81, para. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The communication shall be made in view of the time limit for written proposals for a second vote. Let's continue with art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u178	Under art. 12 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The 12th The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u179	I'm opening the debate. Are there any statements under art. 12? Mrs. Sidorova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u180	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 BSP's group for Bulgaria is proposing the compensation for raising a child up to two years of age to become 640 BGN. What the government offers condemns Bulgarian mothers to poverty for another year. Three hundred and eighty leva in the price of children's food, in the price of children's clothes and shoes, leaves Bulgarian children in poverty and deprivation. How to live with 380 leva.? How do you raise a child? So I guess you're gonna tell me, we're making this offer to get the mothers back to work. What employer agrees to take a mother with a child a year and two months for example? In Sofia, how do you give a child to a nursery? You record it before it's even born? Waiting? In Varna, in Burgas? In small towns, employers get angry when mothers go to hospital, and you know that children are sick, and very sick. After the third time you're in a hospital within two months, they say to you, "Go watch your child, we don't need you anymore! " This measure, which you propose, will not bring the mothers back to work, will simply condemn them to poverty, will condemn the Bulgarian children to poverty. You know we're out of here. You know that fewer and fewer Bulgarians are born. What you're recording means even less Bulgarians! Support the proposal of the BSP for Bulgaria It guarantees a decent existence for our children. I believe that in this Chamber, reason can prevail. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u181	Thank you, Mrs. Sidorova. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u182	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Three hundred and eighty leva is currently offered by the management compensation for raising children from one to two years old and from what we see in the long term, there is no possibility that the compensation for raising a child will increase. Three hundred and eighty leva equals 12 leva. a day for raising a child in a family that brings all its work money into the Fund throughout its life, even though it benefits only within the first to second years for raising a child. On this point in particular, I read the comments of the Minister of Labour and Social Policy and the Manager of the NSI. You know what the manager of the NSI said last year when you were managing, with BGN 1.33. You raised this compensation daily from 340 to 380 BGN.? He says these are effective methods of helping families. These are policies I stress, the manager of the NSI says: policies to promote birth rates and reconcile personal and family life. Since you have a vision of these policies to promote employment, reconcile personal and family life, why do you not offer an increase in the compensation for raising a child from one to two years after you are currently increasing the minimum wage, maximum social security income and every working Bulgarian citizen will be importing into the insurance system, in this Fund, to receive the mother when she gives birth, the corresponding compensation? There was an effective instrument, and I will return the years of 2007 when during our management this compensation for raising a child was linked to the minimum wage. In our opinion, this is the fair treatment of Bulgarian mothers. It's not enough at all. Our proposal at the moment is the compensation to be BGN 640 because our proposal for the growth of the minimum wage is BGN 640. We believe that if you pay attention in this article at least to the startling demographic figures that show that only 53,000 were born this year. Bulgarian children, to show our attitude that we need Bulgarian children, and parents to have faith that the insurance system in which they import will somehow restore those rights for which they have imported, they have respected. So accept our proposal for an increase in child benefit, because this is a policy in the right direction in combating low birth rates, and a policy with which families can reconcile their personal and family lives with their labour rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u183	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Mr. Gokov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u184	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear rulers, honourable majority! I'm addressing you, although I doubt your social sensitivity. However, I think we have a consensus that parenting changes the rhythm not only of the personal but also of the professional life of young people. It is good that some more socially sensitive legislators, along with their obligations, have also introduced rights. One of these rights is the compensation for raising a young child from one to two years, the aim of which is to support financially parents who have decided to raise their child without help in their second year. Unfortunately, there is no mechanism in the years and an objective criterion for determining the amount of this monetary compensation, but it should in no case be an excuse and a reason to freeze this compensation at unacceptable low levels. Mothers are tired of protesting, although inadequate amounts and freezes of this compensation are one of the most irritating social actions during the budgetary procedure. The majority expresses concern about demographics, low birth rates, ageing populations, but only fairy tales and declarations, rather than showing concern for young people, for mothers in practice and stimulating them to create families and to give birth to children. You limit yourself to point out that motherhood in Bulgaria is one of the longest, but you miss the fact that the benefits are inadequately low and the childcare facilities are insufficient to provide care for the young children. By freezing this compensation, you are punishing exactly the working and providing future mothers, without prejudice to those who are on social assistance. There is no joy for mothers who will raise their children from one to two years, because the compensation will again be as much as it was this year and the previous year a little less. Even though there is an increase in wages, an increase in insurance in absolute value, even though there is inflation, you know one thing............... you are.......................................................... As you have frozen it for two years in your previous reign, four years in the previous one. Despite the increase in the minimum wage by 9.8%, the expenditure in the budget for child benefit after the first year decreased due to the demographic collapse due to the significantly smaller number of children who are born and the amount of compensation remains 380 BGN. That's cynical! I see that the Committee on Budget and Finance has rejected our proposal that the amount of compensation should be 640 BGN, as is the minimum wage that we offer without being tied to it. So even if the compensation for raising a young child from one to two years is not linked to the minimum wage, then we should all think that a certain ratio between benefits and minimum wage should be maintained, as it is about insurance payments and public moods are not in favor of those undertaken by the governing freezing of insurance payments at inadequately low levels. The compensation established by the budget for the next year, its freezing at the level of 380 BGN, on top of that is very close to the poverty line of 348 BGN. Are we not bringing these young people into poverty, or does the majority underestimate the role of this compensation in the fight against poverty that is supposed to lead with this poverty? The parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria is consistent. When managing, this compensation for raising the young child from one to two years of age is linked to the minimum wage and is equal to it. When in opposition, he proposes that the government be bound by the minimum wage and equal to it. This is exactly what we are proposing now: the frozen and shamelessly low compensation for raising a young child from one to two years to increase from 380 BGN. at 640 BGN as much as the minimum wage we offer. So the increase is 180 BGN. of this compensation and it is monthly. It takes 78 million. lv. further to ensure this increase and I believe that the Bulgarian mothers deserve this 78 million instead of giving them for sanitization with unproven efficiency, for repairs of Grandomian repairs to the centers of major cities with management of GERB. We should give them to Bulgarian mothers and Bulgarian children. I am far from thinking that with this increase even the levels of 640 leva. Motherhood will be adequate to the expectations of these mothers, but you will agree with me that 640 leva. is far better than 380 leva.? However, in some way to testify to these people that we think of them as a National Assembly, as people who came here to do the will of the people. I am sure that you also know that the public expectations, the expectations of these mothers, are for a significant and adequate compensation for taking care of their children and staying temporarily unemployed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u185	The weather, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u186	Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u187	Thank you. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Angelov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u188	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Gokov, I agree with you that the Bulgarian state should make it possible to reduce the ugly and bad effect of the demographic crisis on the Bulgarian population. My proposal is: let all parliamentary groups make a joint programme and not hand out money to the kapak, but see where the demographic crisis is. It is where are the literate parents where the parents work, and the Bulgarian state should stimulate precisely those parents who have secondary, higher education who work. You're suggesting that we give again to a kapak, which is not correct because we won't solve it. It may have some minimal effect, but we won't really solve the problem where it's at stake. The problem is in those people who are literate, those people who work don't have children or have one child. If you want us to do something, because we, the United Patriarchs, have a lot of things that we have prepared in connection with the demographic crisis. If you really want this great scourge of Bulgaria to be resolved, do not make any proposals to be dealt with on a calpat because it does not solve anything, but instead finance only certain antisocial layers, and none of them produce anything good for the Bulgarian state. It's a fact.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u189	Thank you. Second line? To Mr. Gokov are the lines, I recall. Are there any other lines to Mr. Gokov's statement? I won't. Here you go for the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u190	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mr. Angelov, thank you for the constructive proposal you are making right now. In my opinion, all ideas in this direction are welcome to deal with the demographic crisis. I don't think there's a MP in this room who doesn't think in that direction. I am far from thinking that with our proposal to increase to 640 leva. the compensation for raising children from 1 to 2 years in some way solves the problems with demographics. It helps these mothers to take it easy to raise their children and feel safer, just a little more secure when they decide to raise a child. I am expressing my personal opinion that I agree to debate and talk about this in working groups, if you will, in individual discussions, and I am sure that my parliamentary group will not refuse such a conversation because I do not want to annoy you, but in the Vision for Bulgaria, which we have done, there is one section. I'm not picking on you, please read it to see that we have a lot of ideas and a lot of them are probably consistent with what you're proposing. I am sure that they also coincide with what the people of GERB's parliamentary group think. Another point is that we really need to gather all the parliamentary groups, if you will, extraparliamentary parties, decide once and for all and draw a programme in this direction to deal with the demographic crisis. It is a very ambitious word to limit the demographic crisis, to alleviate the demographic catastrophe and to follow it, and to know that whoever comes to power will follow those rules that we have laid down in this programme, a strategy, whatever you want. The Minister will tell you for sure that we have a strategy to deal with the demographic crisis, but something is not working because we are constantly decreasing. We must either update it with the will of all Members of the National Assembly, or I do not know what to do, but this strategy is currently not working. There's only one thing I don't agree with you, which you said we're handing out money to a dickhead. These are not benefits, understand it, these are benefits. These people were providing themselves, so these people were working when they were paying insurance, so they were getting a right to compensation. This isn't handing out a dick. Now I won't talk about how adequate insurance contributions are for these people. When these people are being paid back in public social security, we must guarantee them some adequate compensation for the fact that some social security event has taken place in this case is raising a child, where the legislator has decided that there is such a case. When he had some income from labor, we need to compensate him a little more adequately. The other thing you're talking about, and I agree, is welfare, but we need to be careful there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u191	Thank you. We continue with the speeches. Mrs. Dora Yankova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u192	Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I strongly join the proposal of our parliamentary group, where I have also signed that it is necessary to increase the money compensation for raising a child to 2 years. I don't plan on doing some apology regime, see, if there are any places, if there are no places in kindergartens and how employers think. In the program of the ruling coalition you have recorded as a main goal the fight against demographic problems, and in Bulgaria they are critical. Parallel to this, I got to know carefully the document that the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences made on the occasion of demographic problems. One of the main highlights there is motherhood, birth rate and promotion. Dear colleagues, it is about Bulgarian children, their upbringing in a good environment, motherhood and family. There is nothing better than the volition today in the Bulgarian National Assembly to be with good news that the money of 380 BGN is increasing. £640. I'm addressing the ruling coalition. Imagine a single mother who has decided to give a son or daughter to Bulgaria, how with 380 BGN. She'll buy clothes and food, and what will she do? She'll be dependent on social services again? Why should we marginalize these environments instead of giving her a decent opportunity to also have the opportunity, raising her child, to be able to eat and get into the work rhythm as she sees fit? I'm not a supporter and I'm not a slave to this, you see, we have to pressure mothers to go to the labor market quickly. Let mothers raise their children, and children need their mothers in the early years. Therefore, I appeal to all of you to agree on issues for children, the youngest children, the Bulgarian family and indeed on demographic issues - even though this is an opposition proposal, support it. He will win the National Assembly, we will win all of us, mostly the parents who raise these children, and this will be a good sign that we are truly united on certain issues. I therefore refer again to all of you: think about your electoral areas, about the people you meet, about the environment, about Bulgaria, which we represent, about the big divisions, about poverty and support the proposal. It's an alternative, a good offer. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u193	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Are there any lines? I can't see. Next statement, Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u194	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I want to look at this issue from a slightly different angle, first to make it clear what it is about. It's about the allowance for raising a young child from 1 to 2 years of age. Mothers are entitled to this compensation after they have completed their leave for pregnancy and birth, which in Bulgaria is 410 days with the second year. I am not going to dwell on how long this leave is going to be, if it is the longest one in Europe and so on. That's another topic. I mean, it's just about the insured mothers! In order to receive such compensation, you have to make a contribution, and separately, when calculating the amount of that compensation, you go back 24 months to avoid playing with the income. From then on, the monetary instrument we are talking about now, and this year to be 380, next year to be 600, will immediately trigger the next request. Next year, there will be a demand for even greater compensation. I want us to understand the difference between this insurance payment and labour income. The insurance payment is a substitute payment of income from labour. If we think about it from this point of view, we need to ask ourselves this question: should we have policies for families with children, for mothers with young children to be of an integrated nature; policies that enable flexible employment; policies that enable social services; policies that enable remote domestic work and so on? Only labour incomes are those who can guarantee the dignity of every Bulgarian citizen, because insurance payments, whatever they may be, will be required to be updated next year. I am convinced that no one in this room believes that neither 380 nor 640 nor 1000 can take adequate care of children between 1 and 2 years of age. If we solve the issue of nursery and kindergartens, if we resolve the issue of mothers being able to go back to work, given that there is someone to look after their children, then they will receive income from labor and will not rely on insurance payments. Insurance payments will receive only those who are struggling to have a realization on the labour market. From this point of view, we need to think very seriously about whether we should only use a monetary instrument, which at some point will always be insufficient, or should we use a complex of measures. For many years I have proposed that this insurance payment be increased, but I have come to this conclusion and I will try to tell you now: it is not enough and only that is the important thing to have guarantees for incomes from work.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u195	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are there any lines? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u196	Dear Madame Chairman, Dear Minister! Dear Mr. Ademov, I treat you with respect as a member of parliament and as a minister who understands this policy. Yes, you're right, policies are needed, but while these policies are gone, let's give this opportunity now. This year, if necessary, to vote 640 and in the next year, and as President of the Commission, in Parliament, to express common will and to sign these policies. In the big cities, where yes, there are places, in the middle cities there are infinitely many seats in the nursery for demographic reasons, but in the periphery of the big cities where there are piles of settlements of 13, 14, there is no work there and parallel to this there is no possibility to live with 340 BGN. It's hard on these families. If opportunities and tools are found through home work programs, each mother will have the dignity to work and take care of her child. Once again, I turn to you: let us now take this step, and for next year we have a scheduled policy, and then we say that constructively and step by step we solve demographic problems. Therefore you are infinitely right, but let us take this step this year and not take the other steps next year, but accept the complex of measures as policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u197	Thank you, dear Mrs. Yankova. Second line? A hole, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u198	Thank you. Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mrs. Yankova, I agree with some of your arguments, but you know a lot of my profile. I've never been a supporter of the principle. Let's give it up, because this principle is always at the next stage causing a new request, updating the principle. Let's give it up. That's why I think it's high time we decided some of those policies I was talking about earlier. There are already steps in that direction. You know that there is already a chance that the mother will return to work after the child is six months old and get half the compensation. Flexible instruments of this kind are needed to be able to solve this problem. As for the fact that there are not enough jobs in small towns, here we are again returning to the principle of the social security system to solve problems in the labour market. We can't do that, we can't do that! The insurance system cannot bet it as a sacrificial lamb, I apologize for the word of all other sectoral policies: let us help the families, let us help the miners, the army and the police, let us help the farmers. Then the next thing you know, we're wondering why the pensions are so large. Therefore, each system should work in terms of principles, so that we do not create conditions for problems of the social security system as a whole.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u199	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Dear Mr. Chenchev, you have a statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u200	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! I can't help but agree with my fellow Members from my parliamentary group. They well enough argued our motives for the proposal. However, I resent the following fact, and here I address the honourable Minister. Mr. Petkov, you're a minister. Two days of debate on sensitive topics. You are here as a conductor of politics in your portfolio sector. Do you have an opinion? Is that how you feel about what's being discussed here? I urge you to stand up and say otherwise for the people outside your name and you yourself will appear as one of the demons in this sector for the people. I urge you to say it. Our proposal is well-grounded enough. We tell her where the money's gonna come from. It's not much, 78 million. lv. It's from the budget. You, as minister of the press, understand, I say it best: there is no way you can sit around and accept everything, yet you have gathered enough impressions from the debate. There were a lot of constructive things about him. And on other important matters, you kept quiet. Is that how a minister should do it?! I think everyone here in this room has parents, elderly people. You have to demonstrate this social sensitivity, because you are a minister, a minister! So I'm going to take the liberty of saying one more time, "Bissere, say it, say it!" Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u201	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. - What's the line? Mr. Kirilov. [[Replications by National Representative Hasan Ademov.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u202	I'll be careful, Mr. Ademov, I promise. Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I want the floor for a reply to the speech of my colleague Chenchev because since yesterday he dominates a line in the speeches of colleagues from the opposition: they are all looking for empathy and statements from importers or identification with our parliamentary group. I remind my colleague Chenchev that the members of the Council of Ministers are entitled, but are not obliged at the invitation and at the request of any MP in the debate to answer. Obviously, it affects your vanity, obviously it doesn't correspond...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u203	Be careful, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u204	I'm limiting myself. ...doesn't correspond to tactics and so, by limiting myself, I would like to stress the following. Don't use that suggestion. What the Council of Ministers had to say, he wrote it as a proposal. When the Minister wants to make a closing or supplementary statement at a particular time, he has that right under both Constitution and our rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u205	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Another line? I won't. Dear Mr. Chenchev, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u206	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! First of all, this is not about the vanity of the MPs. It is about the Bulgarian population, about the Bulgarian citizens. Normality requires it in such a heated debate, I repeat, on socially sensitive subjects. And there are people outside right now, and there will continue to be not only here in Sofia, but in the whole country because there is discontent. You're a minister of the press. We know very well when your ministers are getting up to talk here. We are also all witnessing how your ministers are silent, and not only our proposals, but yours. Then it turns out that they are one, with an excuse for the expression, but this is how Bulgarian citizens perceive them...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u207	And you be careful, Mr. Chenchev!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u208	Yeah. ...dolls of threads because a minister in this country is a sufficiently erudite man with a high level of expertise to have his own opinion and to become here from the highest tribune in the country, and to say it. I think there is nothing wrong with every Bulgarian MP wanting at any moment to hear the minister of any sector. Mr. Kirilov, thank you, but this is not about our vanity. We want the minister to get up and tell him what he thinks about it. Agree, I think there is no one here who does not agree that these are extremely important topics for the elderly and for the working Bulgarian citizens and for the children. Keep that in mind and just show responsible behavior. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u209	Thank you, dear Mr. Chenchev. Any other speeches? You have the floor to speak, Mrs. Zhelyazkova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u210	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The important thing to note is that our national legislation protects the person who works extremely hard and pays special attention to pregnant women, mothers and breastfeeding women. When we focus on protection against dismissal, regulation of night work, work building, leave, childbirth compensation, there are many other mechanisms in our laws that protect and protect, as well as enable workers. At the same time, another important fact to note is that we, as a country, have the longest maternity leave compared to the other countries of the European Union. It's 58 and a half weeks. Taking into account the rapid pace of development of our surrounding world and the dynamics with which the labour market is developing, our primary duty and priority is to work for mechanisms that encourage mothers to return faster to the labour market, preserving their labour competences and habits. Therefore, on the agenda before us is exactly how to stimulate and support women to get back to work early, especially given the lack of employees in the labour market. In this regard, as of 1 June 2017, it is possible that, if they return early to their place of employment, mothers will benefit from receiving, in addition to their salary, and 50% of the maternity due to them. This works as a measure and the number of women who return early to work is dramatically growing. In the last nine months alone, 12,300 women have chosen this step. Another main support for young mothers who want to get back to work is the Employment parents scheme, which is funded by European funds. Parents whose children are not admitted to gardens can rely on help. This scheme provides them with a babysitter for 18 months and only within the framework of the launch of the program so far over 1417 families have taken advantage of this opportunity. That is why we believe that if we take the step to increase funds between the first and the second year, it will not stimulate young mothers to return to the labour market more quickly. You guys, from yesterday to today, you're basically constantly talking about how there's no footage, how people don't have a job. This is a measure by which we really encourage young mothers to return to work and be able to receive higher pay by giving them 50% of motherhood. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u211	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. Mr. Gokov, first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u212	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, I thank you that, on behalf of the ruling majority, you have nevertheless taken some consideration of these proposals in this budget, because as far as I am concerned, you are the first to speak on this issue. However, I would like to draw attention to the fact that you have again limited yourself to noting how big motherhood is in Bulgaria, that it is one of the longest, that I do not know what has been done. I'll pay attention to you, first of all, that you didn't do it, and it's in spite of you. If it's up to you, you'll take it away, only you can't take away the social rights granted once. Some lawmakers back in time, much more socially oriented and sensitive than you, have given this thing as a right and you can't take it away. You also missed the fact that the benefits are inadequately low. You've turned the mantra again that mothers should get back to work early. Well, that's very nice, but tell me how to get back to work a mother who doesn't want her there; the mother of a sick child, whoever comes back to work, should go on vacation often? You're always talking about public administration where things like this are tolerated. Tell me, how does a mother return to work with a private employer and what is the attitude of a private employer to a mother who raises her child, especially from one to two years old? The attitude of Bulgarian employers towards mothers with children even after three years is terrifying and imagine the attitude towards mothers with children from one to two years old! You will not solve the issue of qualified labour in this way. The job is done either with the carrot or with the stick. You hit with the stick, but better with the carrot! The step you mentioned about mothers returning to work and receiving additional compensation is for admiration, but it is not enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u213	Thank you, Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u214	Continue with the incentives and mothers will want to go back to work alone without forcing them with low benefits. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u215	Second line. Dear Mrs. Klisurska, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u216	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, I sincerely wish you to become a mother as soon as possible. When you have a child, you will see that in the period from one to two years to raise the child, in no case will your desire be related to going back to work. And if you go back to work, I am convinced that if you work in a private company, it will be very difficult for you to stay there, because children at this age are extremely ill and the mother will have to come back and look after her child anyway. In the big cities, it has been mentioned several times, there are no places in kindergartens. Yes, in other European countries, if we start comparing ourselves with them, we will see that motherhood is less like time, only there are many alternative methods that replace the possibility of mothers raising their children. There are flexible working conditions provided. Are they in Bulgaria? There are provided the relevant kindergartens from the earliest childhood, if the mother wishes and wants to start work. Unfortunately, the reality in Bulgaria is different. In this regard, if we ask the Bulgarian mothers, the choice of a very small percentage of them will be to return to work after the first year of the child. Most will prefer to take the minimum because they are talking here about the working Bulgarian mothers and fathers who are importing into the insurance system until the end of their work path they will benefit from this compensation. So you probably didn't understand what our proposal was.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u217	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. Is there a third line? Dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u218	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, colleagues! Mr. Gokov, I don't know where you get your information about your speeches, but the business has been protesting for a very long time that it wants to remove the second year of motherhood so that mothers can... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Well, you just said that no employer actually wants them. That's not true. Business wants to end this second year. We don't do it, we don't support it, but we encourage young mothers to get back to work early. Mrs. Klisurska, thank you for your wish. Listening to your line, you don't think the other countries didn't come up with that thing in practice?! A mother defends herself until the age of 3 and she cannot be fired. The discharge can only happen after a decision of the Labour Inspectorate. Therefore, at the beginning of my speech, I said that our laws are extremely protective of working mothers and workers in the country at all. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u219	Thank you, dear Mrs. Zhelyazkova. Are there any other statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Firstly, I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 161 MPs: 64, against 71, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 12, supported by the Commission. Vote 154 MPs: 89, against 52, abstention 13. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u220	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art.13 and art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u221	Thank you. Statements, coworkers? I don't see any statements to be made under art. Art. 13 and art. 14. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for Articles 13 and 14, supported by the Commission. Vote 154 MPs: 96 against 17, abstention 41. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u222	Under art. 15 has a proposal of the National Representative Georgi Gokov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15, para. 2 the number of "1400" to be replaced by "" 1960. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art.15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u223	Thank you. Statements? Mr. Gokov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u224	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! With art. 15 The parameters of the payments under the Guarantee and claims of the employees shall be determined. First of all, I would point out that for another year of 2019. There are no contributions to the Guaranteed claims of employees and this is now freezing at level zero for the tenth consecutive year. We have long been in a situation of guaranteeing and paying claims to workers and employees, even for employers who have not made even one contribution to the Fund, not even one lev has given. In a way, it is good that a maximum amount of guaranteed claims of BGN 1,400 is fixed. instead of the previous 1300 leva. Another is the question: is this increase sufficient to ensure and claim? Aren't we limiting employees' rights to wages above that amount? At the very first vote of the budget, I paid attention to you, as a majority, to adjust the attitude towards those who are properly paid to the insurance system and expect to receive adequate benefits, which to a sufficient extent replace income from work. I remember the letters of the people of high earning professions against increasing the maximum insurance threshold. You are on their side after with GERB this maximum insurance income is frozen during all years of government, and now you have increased it as little as possible by 15%. I wonder why you are not on their side when increasing the maximum amount of guaranteed claims under art. 22 of the Law on Guaranteed Claims of Workers and Employees, and you only do it 1400?! You claim that these highly paid specialists stand in Bulgaria because of the low maximum insurance income? Aren't you afraid that with this uncertainty and the low benefits you're scaring them because the currently set maximum monthly amount of guaranteed claims will happen for 2019. ▪ BGN 1,400, but it practically damages the workers and employees whose wages were high? You don't think the companies and employers of these highly paid employees are insured by bankruptcy? My proposal, it is individual, for a change in the provisions of art. 15, para. 2. It is expressed in increasing the maximum monthly amount of the guaranteed claims granted by the Fund of Guaranteed claims of the employees and employees (in case of bankruptcy) not to BGN 1400 but to BGN 1960. These are exactly three and a half minimum salaries and it is not on the minimum wage offered by us of 640 BGN, but on the minimum wage offered by you. In fact, I wanted to offer BGN 2240, but I thought it would be really hard to accept such a sharp increase, so I stopped at BGN 1960. This is a three-and-a-half minimum wage from which you offer. I have taken the liberty of making the proposal to increase this compensation beyond our alternative budget for the simple reason that this increase does not in any way affect or affect the budget of state social security, because the funds in the Fund Guaranteed claims of employees and employees are not formed by the state budget, but are jointly raised by employers until 2010. I think that until then it was the last contribution to the Fund. For another year, employers are not intended to make contributions to the Fund to compensate for the payments made, as the available resource is really impressive. Although before the last amendments to the Law extended the circle of lawmakers and eased access to the Fund, then there were apocalyptic forecasts of how the Fund would collapse, would find itself in deficit, it would have to resume the payment of contributions by the employers to the Fund. However, there is a sum of 257 million there. BGN, of which 800 thousand were paid to employees in 2017. BGN and for 2018, after the change, the amounts paid are over 7 million. BGN, but it is expected from some of the employers, at least the correct ones, or in any way to recover some of the amounts in the Fund. I am sure that my parliamentary group will support my proposal, but, in order for it to become a fact, to be accepted, the compensation of workers and employees with higher wages will become a fact, to be fairer, I pay attention once more without prejudice to the budget of the state's social security.. The support of all other parliamentary groups is also needed. I thank you for listening to this proposal. I expect your support. Once again, I note that we will in no way affect the budget of state social security and even in no way affect the Fund in which this impressive amount has been raised! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u225	Thank you. - What's the line? I don't see any lines. Any other speeches? I don't see any other speeches. I'm calling off the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Georgi Gokov. Vote 138 MPs: 52, against 65, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 15, which shall be supported by the Commission. Vote 134 MPs: 88, against 40, abstention 6. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u226	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. Art. 16 and art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u227	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I shall put to the vote the texts of the importer for those paragraphs, supported by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 90, against 23, abstention 27. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u228	"Transitional and final provisions." The Commission shall support the text of the importer on the name of the subdivision. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 1 and § 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u229	Thank you. Statements? There are no speeches. I put to the vote the three texts read by Mrs. Stoyanova the name of the division and the text of the importer for § 1 and § 2 supported the Commission. Vote 139 MPs: 90 against 40 abstentions 9. The proposals have been accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u230	Under § 3 there is a proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadaye and a group of MPs: In § 3: 1. in t. Art. (a) in point (c) (b) (iii) (iv) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (b) to create a new letter (s): In paragraph 1, the following paragraph is added: 12 after the words "Art." Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). The maximum amount of one or more pensions received (c) points (e), (e), (e) and (g) respectively shall 2. in t. 25: (a) (a) (b) (iv) (iv) (v) (v) (iv) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) (v) In Paragraph 6, paragraph 6 is replaced by the following: 1 is amended as follows: The maximum amount of one or more pensions received without their add-ons from 1 January 2019 shall be set at BGN 910 and from 1 July 2019 shall be BGN 1200. Each subsequent calendar year, the monthly amount referred to in this paragraph shall be determined annually by the State Social Security budget. (b) in point (c) of Paragraph 7c, para. 1, the words "from 1 July 2019" shall be replaced by "from 1 April 2019" shall be replaced by "from 1 April 2019." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: "I"X. In Transitional and Final Provisions, § 3, p. 25, b. the following point is inserted after point (a) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (i) (i) (ii) (ii) (ii) (ii) (iii) (ii) (c) Paragraph 7b, 7c and 7d shall be created and the text shall be supplemented by Paragraph 7d: 7d. (1) Employment pensions granted until 31 December 2013 shall be revalued from 1 January 2019 and the individual figure of the person shall be multiplied by the national average monthly insurance income for 2013, after which the amount of the pension shall be determined under the conditions and in the order of art. 70, 75 and 79. (2) The recalculation of pensions under para. 1 shall be carried out if this is more beneficial to the person. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Menda Stoyanova, made according to the order of art. 85, para. 5, t. 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly: The Commission supports the proposal. The Commission shall in principle support the text of the importer and shall propose the following version for § 3: .................................................. In the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) the following amendments and additions shall be made: 1. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 t. 9 is repealed; (b) in para. 3, p. 2 The Union...... is replaced by a comma and finally added.............................................................................................. 26, para. 7 of the Law on Taxes on Incomes of Individuals......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... (c) in para. 7 Finally, the European Regulations for Coordination of Social Security Systems are added. 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 4a, para. 7 the word "intake" is replaced by "retain and import." 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) in para. 3 a new sentence is created first: The faces exercise their choice under para. 1 by submitting an application to the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency and the previous sentence becomes the second sentence; (b) in para. 4 the words The choice of provision, order and method of collection shall be replaced by the order and method of choice of provision, collection and collection. 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) (a) A new para shall be created. 2: The persons shall exercise their choice under para. 1 by submitting an application to the competent territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency. The provision of persons by the order of para. 1 occurs from the first number of the month following the month of selection. (b) the current para. 2 becomes para. 3 and in it the words "Select the provision, order and method of collection" shall be replaced by "The order and method of choice of the provision, collection and collection." 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 6, para. The third sentence is deleted and the third sentence is deleted. 4, para. 1, t. 5, 7, 8 and 9 4, para. 1, t. Five, seven, and eight. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 7, para. 7 after the words the self-insuring persons shall be commaed and the persons referred to in Art. 7 shall be added. 4, para. 9.................................................................................. 7. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by (a) c. 1 the (b) c. 2 everywhere in the text the words............................................................................... 4, para. 1, t. 5, 9 and 10 and shall be replaced 8. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 33, para. 5 are created t. 14 and 15: It's 14 years old. issue a personal identification code for electronic identification and access to electronic administrative services provided by the National Insurance Institute; 15. keeps a register of persons who transferred funds from a Bulgarian pension scheme to a pension scheme of the European Union, the European Central Bank or the European Investment Bank. 9. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54a, para. 2, p. 4 is finally added to the European Regulations for the Coordination of Social Security Systems. 10. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 54d, para. 4 the words "International Treaties to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country" shall be replaced by "International Treaty," to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country, or the European Regulations for the Coordination of Social Security Systems." 11. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 57, para. 1 the figure "s' is replaced by "S' is replaced by "S' is 12. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) A new para shall be created. 4. In assessing the right to pension under para. 1 and 2 related to the implementation of an international treaty to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country, or European Regulations for the Coordination of Social Security Systems, where only with the Bulgarian legislation, the insured person does not acquire the right to a pension, but has at least 15 years of actual insurance service and until the age of the foreign insurance service is verified. 3 is granted a pension in the amount of the social pension for old age, provided that the person does not receive another type of pension. (b) the current para. 4 becomes para. 5. 13. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1 in the first sentence, the words "supplied' shall be replaced by the words "supplied' and sentences "second, third and fourth' shall be deleted; (b) paragraph 8 is amended as follows: For pensions granted starting from 31 December 2018, the individual coefficient shall be calculated from the insurance income of the person for periods after 31 December 1999 until the date of granting of the pension but for a period of not less than 36 months. Where the insurance income of the person after 31 December 1999 is for a period less than 36 months, its last insurance income before 1 January 2000 shall also be taken into account by order determined by the ordinance under art. 106. Where the person does not have an insurance income before 1 January 2000 or his income before that date is less than that required to supplement up to 36 months, the individual coefficient shall be calculated from the income available regardless of the duration of the period to which he relates. Where the person does not have an insurance income after 31 December 1999, the individual coefficient shall be calculated from his last insurance income for 36 months until that date or from his available income where the income is for a smaller period. (c) in para. 9 the words "sentence first" and "after 31 December 1996" shall be deleted and a third sentence shall be created: "The individual ratio shall not exceed the sum of the monthly ratios between the maximum monthly amount of the social security income determined by the State Security Budget Act for the year concerned and the average monthly social security income for the country for the months after 31 December 1999 participating in the calculation of the individual coefficient; (d) in para. 10, t. 2 the words "sentence first" shall be deleted; (e) in para. 16 after the words the International Treaty, to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country, is added, or under the European Regulations for the Coordination of Social Security Systems. (f) in para. 17 words from the entry into force of the pension award order shall be replaced by after the entry into force of the order by which its amount has been determined in accordance with that code. (g) the creation of para. 18: In the case of an amendment, reclaim, resume or refund of pensions, the individual coefficient shall be calculated in accordance with the regulatory provisions on which it is determined. 14. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) the title is amended as follows: (b) in para. 1 after the words the average insurance income is comma and the insurance income for the month is added; (c) in para. 2: (aa) the text before t. 1 after the words the average of the insurance income is comma and the insurance income for the month is added; (bb) point 6 is amended as follows: It's six. from 1 January 2001, during which a parent (a parent) or spouse (a spouse) of a disabled person has been assigned foreign assistance and the time of 15 August 2015, during which one of the parents of the mother or father of the disabled person took care of him, therefore they have not been insured or received a pension and after 1 January 2018. "Personal pension'; "Private pension' (d) the creation of para. 5. In determining a pension related to the implementation of an international treaty to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country or the European Regulations for the Coordination of Social Security Systems, when under Bulgarian law only insurance service is respected, which is not included in determining the insurance income under para. 2 for the calculation of the individual coefficient of art. 70 shall be taken into account the minimum monthly salary established for the respective period. 15. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 75, para. 1 in the sentence first, the words "supplied by: percentage 1.1 per cent' are replaced by "supplied by a percentage of 1,2" and sentence 2 is deleted. 16. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1: (aa) c. 1 the number (bb) c. 2 the number "0,35' is replaced by "0,3932'; (c) c. 3 the number "0.30' is replaced by "0,3371'; (b) paragraph 2 is repealed. 17. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 82, para. 4 is added after the words "indemnity pension'. 18. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 89a, para. 1 sentence first, after the words "70 years', a comma shall be placed and added to which no other pension has been granted, including from another country. 19. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 90a, para. 1 is finally a comma and is added to which no other pension has been granted, including from another country. 20. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) paragraph 3 is amended as follows: Other than the cases referred to in para. 1 disability pension and/or non-aid supplement shall be granted from the date of submission by the person of the application to the territorial expert medical committee (TELK), but not earlier than the date of disability, respectively, from the date of determining the need for foreign assistance, if the necessary retirement documents have been submitted to the territorial branch of the National Insurance Institute within one month of the expiry of the appeal period for the expert decision of TelK or of the National Expert Medical Commission (NELK) in respect of the rightful person; (b) the creation of para. 5. The pension referred to in Article 1 (2) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 shall be paid to the European Parliament and to the Council by the European Parliament and the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union, as well as to the general budget of the Union. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European 21. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 2 words. 2 "4" is replaced by "the" is replaced by "the one" is replaced by "the one" is replaced by "the one" is replaced by "the one" is (b) the creation of para. 3: The pension referred to in Article 1 (3) shall be paid by the European Parliament or by the Council to the European Parliament or by the Council. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 4 shall be terminated from the date of its release, when granting a 22. In Article 4 (1) (b), (a) in para. 1, t. 2, after the words the International Contracts (International Contracts), the European Regulations for the Coordination of Social Security Systems are added; (b) paragraph 2 is amended as follows: The officials referred to in paragraph 1 shall be the members of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of the Board of Directors of The amounts due on the orders shall be collected by deductions from the pension pursuant to art. 114a, para. 3 or through the provided in art. 114, para. 5 applications (s) 23. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 1 shall be added at the end of the first day of the month following the month of submission of the application. (b) A new para shall be created. 3: The person may submit an application in accordance with a template approved by the Governor of the National Insurance Institute asking for his pension to be serviced in accordance with para. 1. The recalculation shall be carried out once a year in accordance with the rules laid down in art. 106, based on the available data under art. 5, para. 4 t. 1 and for self-instructions on the basis of the contributions made for post-retirement periods, respectively, after the last benefit of the pension. 24. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (a) in para. 2, p. 3, the words "International Contracts to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a Party" shall be replaced by "International Contract to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a Party," or by the European Regulations for the Coordination of Social Security Systems. (b) in para. 4 the National Insurance Institute shall be added after the words "National Insurance Institute', "or another official appointed by the head of the branch'. 25. In the transitional and final provisions: (a) in § 6 para. 1 is amended as follows: The maximum amount of one or more pensions received without their add-ons from 1 January 2019 shall be set at BGN 910 and from 1 July 2019 and from 1 July of each calendar year at the rate of 40 per cent of the maximum monthly amount of the insurance income determined by the State Social Security Budget Act for the year concerned. (b) Paragraphs 7b and 7c are created: .................................................................................. (1) In 2019 pensions shall not be updated under art. 100. (2) The amount as of 30 June 2019 of pensions granted at an initial date until 31 December 2018 shall be increased by a percentage of 5,7 from 1 July 2019. § 7c. (1) The pensions granted at an initial date until 31 December 2018 shall be revalued from 1 July 2019 by a percentage of 1.2 for each year of insurance service and the corresponding proportional part of that percentage for the months of insurance service. The pensions for occupational accident and occupational disease granted with an initial date until 31 December 2018 shall be recalculated from 1 July 2019 with the corresponding coefficient referred to in Article 1. 79, para. 1. (2) The recalculation under para. 1 shall be carried out without changing the income from which the pension is calculated, after which it shall be updated, revised and indexed according to the regulations in force from the date of granting it until 30 June 2019 inclusive. (3) When the recalculated amount of the pension under para. 1 and the amount of the pension under § 7b, para. 2 are not equal, the pension is fixed at the higher amount. (c) Paragraph 22f and 22x shall be created: ....... 22f........................................................................... Article 68, para. 4 shall also apply to pending proceedings in respect of applications for pension under Art. 31 December 2018. Commission Regulation (EU, Euratom) No 966/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 25 October 2012 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC, Euratom) No 1605/2002 (OJ L 298, 26.10.2012, p. 1). 1 and 2 related to the implementation of an international treaty to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a country or European Regulations for the Coordination of Social Security Systems. § 22x. Specialists who have been adopted under the repealed Ordinance No 34 of 2006 on the acquisition of a specialty in the healthcare system (prom., SG No. ...) and whose training contracts for the acquisition of a specialty have not been completed by 31 December 2018, shall continue to be provided in accordance with the repealed Article. 4, para. 1, t. 9 until their residency is completed. The insurance contributions shall be due to the remuneration received but on no less than the minimum monthly salary for the country and shall be distributed between the insurers and the insured persons according to art. 6, para. 3. 26. In the transitional and final provisions of the Law amending and supplementing the Code of Social Security (prom., SG No. ...) § 53 is repealed.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u231	Thank you, dear Mrs. Stoyanova. Statements, coworkers? Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u232	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister, Dear Members of Parliament! I'll start first on the t. 25a. The provisions of this point shall establish the maximum amount of the pensions received, without additions thereto, to be set at 910 BGN from 1 January 2019 and from 1 July 2019 and from 1 July of each calendar year to 40 per cent of the maximum monthly amount of the social security income determined by the State Security Budget Act for that year. For this year 40% of 3000 leva. It's £1,200. Mr. Minister, I'm addressing you and the entire majority, of course, don't take offense at what I'm about to say, but you've made an extremely big mess. Many people expected the long-delayed withdrawal of the maximum amount of pensions received, known as the Other people took into account these three consecutive best years for their retirement and all expected this sign date 1 January 2019. Suddenly you surprised them again.. You did not give them an opportunity for an informed choice. How does this return confidence in the pension system and in the social security system at all? I don't know why you're doing this, but the lack of predictability irritates people. Again, you let unfair restrictions, access ceilings act, and this is a restriction on the access of insured persons to benefits. We consider it fair and that is our proposal, the maximum monthly amount of the insurance income of BGN 2600. to increase not as you offer to 3000 BGN, but at least to 3900 BGN, and respectively the maximum pension of 910 BGN. at BGN 1560 and not, as you predict, at BGN 1200, with trends in the near future to drop the maximum monthly amount of insurance income and the ceiling of pensions. And now on t. 25a, para. 1 of the proposals. Here is the place to remind that the growth of those required for the acquisition of a pension age and internship by two months continues. I would point out that in this budget, policies on the adequacy of pensions are below all expectations and in 2019 there will be no increase which will lead to a significant increase in pensions expected by society. That is, nothing other than the up-to-date update, despite the constant demands, petitions and protests of pensioners and other organisations. All of them first wrote the request for recalculation of pensions, and now you, on 1 July, provide for updating of pensions granted by 31 December 2018 by 5.7%. From the left, we believe that these 5.7% do not solve the problem of increasing differences between old and new pensions. Injustice and conflict between generations are created. They will continue to deepen and increase the differences between the lowest and the highest pensions and the number of pensioners who will receive pensions below the poverty line. May I remind you that with the minimum pension the other disability pensions are tied, due to a general illness and so on, which condemn to a miserable existence people with permanent disabilities because they are insufficient for a normal life, and they also require resources for treatment. No one believes that with the planned 5.7% increase in pensions, and from 1 July, inflation will be compensated and it will be enough for two million and one hundred and fifty thousand Bulgarian pensioners to live at least as they lived in 2018. These symbolic 5.7% do not solve the problem of increasing differences between old and new pensions, and this creates injustice and conflict between generations. From the left, we believe that in order to ensure a decent existence of Bulgarian pensioners, adequate solutions must be found to give a fair decision on the size of pensions, that is, all of them should be recalculated so that the lowest ones are close at least to the poverty line. Therefore, in the alternative budget, we propose that pensions for employment granted by 31 December 2013 be recalculated from 1 January 2019 and that the individual ratio of the person is multiplied by the country's average monthly social security income for 2013, after which the amount of the pension shall be determined under the terms and conditions of the social security code, Articles 70, 75 and 79. This will definitely lead to a significantly greater increase in pensions. The average income for 2013 is BGN 648. 73 sq.m., and the one in which these people's pensions were last calculated is 398 BGN. 17 cm. for 2007 [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I have to finish because time is running out, but you must immediately accept our proposal to recalculate pensions because people want that. There are some people outside right now who are protesting, and their main demand is exactly this pensioning...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u233	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. Your time is really up.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u234	One more sentence, one sentence that won't mess up the weather. You, Minister, attended the discussion of this request from the Commission on Labour and Social Policy and saw their persistent demands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u235	Thank you, too. - What's the line? I don't see any lines to Mr. Gokov. Next statement please, Dr. Ademov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u236	Thank you. Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, colleagues! Our proposals are in three points. First of all is the proposal in point. 25, para. 2, which is a proposal relating to § 7b, para. 2, but I mean exactly what it's about. This is about the last opportunity for the National Assembly to support the increase in the new amount of pensions by 5.7%, not from 1 July, but from 1 April. This is the last opportunity in the Draft Law on State Social Security Budget. I've said enough arguments so far, there's no point in repeating them. My request is once again to assess whether this proposal can be supported or not. Also, a proposal for the notorious maximum amount of pensions. Honourable Members, as of 1 January 2019, the maximum amount of pensions, or the so-called "valid', had to be dropped for the newly granted pensions. Instead, something else happened. Yes, but do you realize that there are people who 2016 had the right to maximum size, had the right to retire, but had postponed their retirement and continued to contribute to the maximum social security income in the hope of fulfilling the legal requirement of 1 January 2019 to drop the maximum pension amount. And what happened?! It has happened that the maximum amount of the pension now with a new proposal is limited to BGN 1200, i.e. a political decision. All those who have postponed their retirement by fulfilling the legal texts, notice, you execute the legal texts, you are sanctioned by $32,000. 700 BGN because you gave the state social security every month a maximum size of 910 BGN. 36 months makes exactly 32,000. £700. I mean, you're financially sanctioned for doing the law. But the logic is to be sanctioned when you don't obey the law! Therefore, the proposal we are making in order to avoid such types of last-minute interventions is, as the minimum amount of the pension is determined each year by the state social security budget and the maximum amount to be determined each year by the state social security budget. Both are political decisions. Let the National Assembly rule and take responsibility, not some side factors to propose changes at the last minute. The next proposal is related to the so-called.............................................................................................. The proposal that is being made at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly, for those who are listening, and they are not many, is the following: see, from the beginning of 2019, a correct individual coefficient is introduced, in my opinion, which also takes into account the number of working days of the month. In order for there to be no abuse of those who have been committed over the years, it has not been abused because they have carried out legal orders, to provide for maximum insurance income, to say, for four hours for certain days of the month and so on and to have a maximum coefficient. Yes, but now what we say: putting another maximum coefficient, which, notice, is the ratio between the maximum insurance income, which in the coming years, as it says in the updated budget forecast, will be 3000 BGN, the numerator is set, and the denominator will grow every year because the average insurance income grows every year. What does that mean? This means that this ratio will be reduced, i.e. the individual coefficient, which will support the so-called incorrect insured persons, will push the pensions further from above. If this coefficient is not available, there are several coefficients that, calculated on the basis of three hours, four hours, of maximum social security income in less days, give them the possibility of a coefficient somewhere around 10, which is surprising and gives a large amount of pensions. Only these people used loopholes in what the MPs and experts suggested and accepted. What do we do now?! Let's put an additional coefficient and tell them that you can't outsmart the MPs, you can't use loopholes in the legislation. So I suggest that this second individual coefficient is dropped. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] I'm done, Mr. Chairman. Because those people didn't break the legislation, they were provided precisely by the order of law that was adopted in this House.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u237	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. - What's the line? I can't see. A statement? Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u238	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I will ask another question to the Minister of Labour and Social Policy. It is related to the amendments of art. 70 which we are doing a month before the beginning of 2019, with which we are changing again the rules relating to the pension system. We want to be fair, that's what we bet on in the pension system! What do we do with the amendment of art. 70 months before 2019? To all those who, three years ago, amending the Social Security Code, we said that from 2019 there will be no ceiling of newly granted pensions, we say: do not believe in the pension system anymore. There's gonna be a ceiling. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, Mr. Minister! Why are we not consistent in pension policies? This shows the attitude of the government to this system, especially that there will be a ceiling of pensions. At the moment, the internship rate that would have been growing is being kept clear from these proposals. And the other restrictive measure, which is introduced with these proposals, is related to the individual coefficient, which will enter from 2019. With this individual coefficient in the way, according to the methodology in which it is introduced in the Social Security Code, which it will be, it will result in a reduction of the adequate amount of pensions, which Bulgarian pensioners would receive in 2019. I think it is reasonable that this coefficient should drop out, but now I will say a few words about our proposal. It relates to the recalculation of pensions. Ladies and gentlemen of government, Mr. Minister, today on this cold November day, when it snows, we forced the Bulgarian pensioners to come here again to the National Assembly and protest [[GERB lines]] because what you have been doing since 1 July with the increase in their pensions only by 5.7% does not improve their social situation. Our proposal is related to the recalculation of all pensions with the average monthly insurance income for 2013. This is the fair and solidarity attitude towards the elderly who built Bulgaria. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u239	Thank you, dear Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Ninova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u240	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We are looking at the social budget to call it because the budget for state social security contains the social policies for mothers, for young families, for children, for all workers who are insured, and pensioners. You are in the paradox, honourable rulers, to offer, according to your words, the most social budget for the last ten years, since you have managed, the best, and the most social budget that has brought out the Bulgarian people of social riots on the streets for incomes, pensions, help mothers, families and children. Think about it: Is the label of the social budget that you set for yourself correspond to what people feel and understand in their pocket and in their daily lives? In this text we are proposing not for the first time, by the way, and not just in theory, because we have done it and in practice, recalculating all pensions. Dear governors, see what you say with two official decisions of the government of Boyko Borisov. You say that the poverty threshold is BGN 348, that is to say, in order to live a bad life, you need at least BGN 348, officially announced from the budget for 2019 by the government of GERB, the United Patriarchs and the support of the Government of GERB. In the same decision in the budget you say a minimum pension of 219 BGN. In order for you to be alive, you need 348, but we're giving you 219. Well, how exactly are we gonna do that? One million. 200,000. Bulgarians live with money below the officially declared poverty threshold. I mean, the government, with one decision, officially tells them that you can't live in this situation. You should have brought this dispute today and the accusations you're making to us about a discrepancy to lead it to the front where the people from all over Bulgaria had come. No one came out to look them in the eye. [[Radio chatter]] and tell them: we today inside this room, we condemn you to this state. We invited them inside, and you didn't come to tell them that either. This is not a dispute between us, honourable Members. The argument is between you and them. You should be explaining your arguments to them as well, not blaming BSP. [[GERB lines.]] On behalf of these people, we put in a $30,000 petition. the signature is probably much bigger already, in the Parliament's Office of the Parliament you didn't pay any attention to it. I would like to draw attention to the following. They want a recalculation of all pensions with a medium-term income from 2017 and this is moral, fair and correct. Take a look at our proposal. We offer recalculation of all pensions, but with a medium-term income for 2013, because we are not populists, because we do not promise impossible things because we understand that recalculation with a medium-term income for 2017, which costs a billion and 600 million on the budget, is an impossible task for the beginning of 2019! We make reasoned proposals that both meet the needs of the people of the third age and are reasonable about the financial stability of Bulgaria and about the parameters of the budget. You don't even want to hear this. It is impressive that this is, albeit according to your words, the most social, most silent budget. Honourable Members of the ruling majority, we have checked that there is no case in the history of the Bulgarian National Assembly, since it exists, to have a budget submitted by a government, to have been debated yesterday 11 o'clock, and today we may be debating, and no more speeches by the majority and by the government. [[(Strong noise and lines from GERB and OP:]] And it's not a question of vanity. It's a question of parliamentaryism. Yes, there was one from GERB and one from the United Patriarchs. [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u241	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u242	11 hours monologue by BSP for Bulgaria. [[Noise and continuing lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u243	Don't come in...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u244	I put it as a question of the normality of Bulgarian politics, of Bulgarian parliamentaryism, if you like. [[the President signals that time has run out]] But what's happening here is absolutely unacceptable. Either you have no arguments, or you forget it's the most social budget, or you want the debate to pass silently. Choose whatever reason you want, but that's not normal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u245	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u246	11 hours of monologue by BSP for Bulgaria.......................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... [[GERB and OP lines]] , one of the other European countries...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u247	Mrs. Nino, excuse me, but I have to remind you twice.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u248	...someone would think that BSP is ruling, and you are opposition. [[(Comments from GERB and OP:]] Mr. Minister, shame the Council of Ministers and the majority by taking the floor from the stands. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u249	Thank you, Mrs. Ninova. Are there lines? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u250	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear colleagues, dear viewers, as Mrs. Ninova would say! There is talk about the pension system and I agree that there are many problems there. The point is, it's a system. What I hear from my BSP colleagues is: let's increase pensions by more. Perhaps there is no one who does not think that they should increase by more. The question is what are the possibilities. You claim that we have to take from the surplus to give into this system. I say that if you want to increase pensions even more or sensitively, you need to increase the insurance, because that's where the money comes from. We must answer this question very honestly: where does the pension money come from? The pension money comes from the workers, from the workers, to put it simply! We must take from the people who work, and you say at the same time: let us give for children! The parents of these children are also working! We need to take them to make a significant increase in pensions. So we have to answer this question, because this is not a one-time expense, not for 2019, it is about tens of years ahead. When we talk about this, we need to be honest with those people who are very lied to and we should not lie to them! In this budget, no one lies! This budget is realistic, it makes the most of the opportunities of the economic situation in Bulgaria and in Europe and offers maximum effective spending of these funds because the world will not end this year and this budget! We think of future governments and the people who will rule this system, and once this government has ended its mandate in 2021, because we are responsible, and we are not irresponsible. We are also responsible for those people who will receive pensions. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u251	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. First line, Mr. Kutev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u252	Dear Mr. Bikov, perhaps, unfortunately, I have been looking at this parliamentary circus for too long. I mean, you're saying, "We're responsible," others have said before you. It's probably what governments in which BSP dominated. However, the result of the whole work is what Cornelia Ninova said very clearly just now: a line of poverty - approximately 350, a minimum pension - 219. The difference is 130. This difference is costing lives. If we're not clear, from those pensioners who get 219 leva each. I'm talking about thousands of people die every year because they can't buy the drugs, they just don't pay them. They are included in the column "Dead of natural causes." Such the count of our Statistical Institute does not lead to who are those who have died from not paying their medicines because they have neither the money of a doctor to go nor the personal doctor who is not in the village nor can they afford to pay them. That's the difference! When you say that you are responsible I repeat it to you, I do not direct it to you and not just to GERB, I direct it to everyone who stand in this room that, apart from the responsibility that we can declare purely politically every time, this all has human dimensions! If you were responsible, if all of us were responsible, we should have gone, so we refer you to those outside, it doesn't matter if there are 100 or there are 200 people. It matters that every year thousands of people can't pay for their drugs. That's what the power is responsible for and who represents the power at the moment! You're representing her right now! There's no way that when you represent the power, the opposition is your fault! Someday, when you fall and others come, they are responsible for you now. The responsibility lies in a single way: the talks and the outcomes of how can these people begin to get over the poverty line?! [[The President signals that time has expired.]] That's your assignment.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u253	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Second line, Mrs. Klisurska, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u254	Dear Madam President, Dear Minister, Dear colleagues, Dear Mr. Bikov! The Commission 600 million. an excess, which by decree of the Council of Ministers you walk as you wish. Now with the new budget, Mr. Bikov, we artificially reduce the revenue, just so we don't give the socially vulnerable groups through the spending area. You probably didn't listen to the debate at all yesterday and today because you're asking: where did the money come from? In our alternative budget, dear Mr. Bikov and gentlemen on the right, we point out where the money comes from. We believe that adequate policy is currently based on the economic situation and the state of the budget of last year, not this one, allowing a significant increase in the minimum wage. We offer 640 leva. minimum wage! Here's more insurance in the insurance fund! We offer an increase in maximum insurance income to BGN 3900.! Here's another insurance policy at the Social Security Fund. What we propose in the alternative budget is 950 million on top of what is needed to recalculate all the pensions needed for child benefit from 1 to 2 years of age and to raise a child from 1 to 2 years of age, in line with the minimum wage, and short-term unemployment benefits to be adequately updated! That's what we're offering, but obviously you're not listening, you're obviously sleeping at the banks. Wake up. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u255	Mr. Zarkov, forgive me, I'll give Mrs. Angelova a third line, since I gave your parliamentary group two lines, I'm sorry. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Let us give another parliamentary group an opportunity. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u256	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Bikov, you said very well in your speech that this cost of recalculating pensions, which no one said how much it would cost, and that is 1 billion. 40 million. BGN will not be necessary only for 2019. This expenditure will be for years to come and each year this expenditure will increase. And whose expense will that be? Who will pay this high price? Naturally, all of us will pay this high price, or this will be at the expense of other sectors. This has to be said all the time, because it's very easy here to get out and out of the stands to talk populist that you want to recalculate the pensions of all the pensioners, but there's something else. Moreover, the recalculation that you are proposing, colleagues, will not be recalculated the pensions of 510 thousand pensioners. These are the people who have retired since 31 December 2013, so you are once again applying a double standard.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u257	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Here you go, Mr. Bikov, for the back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u258	Mrs. Chairman! Dear Mr. Kutev, I agree. No one here claims that with 220 BGN, if you will, with 400 BGN. An old man can live well. The point is that you want and fall on the ceiling of the highest pensions, you want and increase the minimum pension, and recalculate all pensions. And you say, "We'll take them because this year is good, because there's a surplus and we'll take them from the surplus." But you're not saying what's gonna happen in five years, ten years. Secondly, you are talking about this notorious surplus that remains. This surplus is spent mainly on infrastructure projects. And I'm going to ask you: how many kilometers of road infrastructure did you build with the huge surpluses of the Triple Coalition? [[(Reply from BSP for Bulgaria]] Oh, very yes! Ask Mr. Kiril Dobrev. He claims to be seasick at the precinct before Stara Zagora, built by you, and you're from Stara Zagora. That's what you built! And you could for four years not with European money, with Bulgarian money to build it and give economic growth afterwards. You didn't do anything! And you didn't increase your pensions even though you had huge surpluses! I remember it. You had economic growth, and so on. I have nothing to say to Mrs. Angelova. I agree with her, but I still call on you: let us be calmer in our demands. This system must eventually endure. It must also endure because if it collapses and if it fails, the price will be paid by everyone, especially by the Bulgarian pensioners.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u259	Thank you, Mr. Bikov. There was a procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u260	Madam President, honourable Members! I am proposing to extend today's plenary session to 10:00 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u261	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Please vote on the procedure... [[Noise, lines, cheers.]] Reverse procedure? Cancel the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u262	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, we saw the work of the National Assembly last night until 24:00. In my opinion, it's acceptable to work normally until 20 o'clock, and after 20 o'clock, let's go quietly so that we can be able to work again tomorrow. That's my opposite offer. [[GERB lines.]] I am not convinced, Mr. Tsvetanov, that you are working well because in the morning, if we had not registered, you would not have had a quorum again. Some of them overslept very seriously. [[Radio.]] My other proposal is before the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u263	Okay, after we run a roll call, we'll vote for an extension of working hours. Adlen Shukri Shevked - here Albena Vladimirova Naydenova - here Alexander Dimitrov Pawnov - here Alexander Ivanov Matsurev - here Alexander Koychev Ivanov - here Alexander Mairov Siddy - here Alexander Nikolaev Sabanov - here Alexander Petrov Alexandrov - here Alexander Rumenov Nenkov - here Alexander Tihomirov Simov - here Altimir Emilov Adamov - absent Angel Iliev Isaev - absent Andon Dimov Donchev - here Andrian Ivanov Raykov - here Anelia Dimitrova Klisarova - here Anna Vasileva Alexandrova - here Anton Konstantinov Kutev - here Asya Atanasova Peeva - here Atanas Ivanov Tashkov - here Atanas Petrov Kostadinov - here Atanas Slavchev Stoyanov - here Ahmed Recepov Ahmedov - here Bogdan Emilov Botsev - here Boris Vangelov Borisov - here Boris Petkov Kirchev - here Boris Yankov Yachev - here Borislav Ivanov Borisov - here Boryana Lyubenova Georgieva - here Bjurhan Ilyazov Abase - absent Valentin Alexiev Nikolov - here Valentin Georgiev Lambev - here Valentin Ivanov Radev - here Valentin Kirilov Kasabov - here Valentin Mirchov Milushev - here Valentina Alexandrova Naydenova - absent Valeri Mirchev Zablyanov - here Valeri Simeonov Simeonov - here Vasil Milanov Antonov - here Vasil Tsvetkov - here Eyebrows Letif Rashidov - absent Velislava Ivanova Krasteva - absent Venka Kostadinova Stoyanova - here Vesela Nikolaeva Lecheva - here Veselin Naydenov Mareshki - absent Veska Marinova Nencheva - here Violeta Ruseva Zheleva - here Vladimir Slavchev Valev - here Vladimir Tsvetanov Toshev - here Vladislav Toshkov Nikolov - here Volen Nikolov Siderov - absent Galya Eneva Zaharieva - here Galya Stoyanova Zhelyazkova - here Georgi Georgiev Mihailov - here Georgi Georgiev Stoilov - here Georgi Dimitrov Andreev - here Georgi Evdokiev Markov - here Georgi Zaprev Dinev - here Georgi Yordanov Yordanov - here Georgi Kolev Kolev - here Georgi Stratilov Svilenski - here Georgi Tenev Stankov - here Georgi Chenkov Turnovaliski - absent Georgi Yanchev Gokov - here Gergana Zhelyazkova Stefanova - absent Daniel Dimitrov Kirilov - absent Daniel Petkov Yordanov - here Daniela Anastasova Daritkova-Prodanova - here Daniela Vladimirova Saveklieva - here Daniela Dimitrova Maleshkova - here Daniela Dobreva Dimitrova - here Delyan Alexandrov Dobrev - here Delyan Slavchev Peevski - absent Dencho Stoyanov Boyadzhiev - here Desislaw Slavov Chukolov - absent Desislava Angelova Todorova - here Desislava Valcheva Atanasova - here Desislava Jekova Taneva - here Desislava Yordanova Kostadinova-Gusheva - here Jevdet Ibryam Chakarov - absent Jayhan Hasanov Ibryamov - absent Gemma Marinova Grozdanova - here Diana Dimova Sawateva - here Dilyan Stanimirov Dimitrov - here Dimitar Boychev Petrov - absent Dimitar Borisov Glauchev - here Dimitar Velichkov Georgiev - absent Dimitar Ivanov Avramov - absent Dimitar Ivanov Gechev - here Dimitar Ivanov Danchev - here Dimitar Krumov Alexandrov - here Dimitar Nikolov Lazarov - here Dimitar Stoyanov Stoyanov - here Donka Dimova Simeonova - here Dora Ilieva Yankova - here Dora Stoyanova Hristova - here Dragomir Velkov Stoynev - absent Evgeni Genchev Budinov - absent Evgenia Biserova Alexieva - here Evgenia Danielova Angelova - here Elena Nikolova Yoncheva - here Elena Stefanova Axieva - absent Elhan Mehmedov Kulkov - here Emil Dimitrov Simeonov - here Emil Marinov Hristov - here Emil Seraphimov Tonchev - here Emilia Veselinova Staneva-Milkova - here Erjan Sebytin Ebatin - here Errol Osman Mehmed - here Zhelyo Ivanov Boychev - absent Brought to you by WITH S2 Written In The Heavens Subbing Squad Ivaylo Angelov Moskovski - absent Ivan Valentinov Ivanov - absent Ivan Dimov Ivanov - here Ivan Ivaylov Chenchev - here Ivan Kirov Genov - here Ivan Nikolov Mihovski - here Ivan Stefanov Valkov - here Ivan Todorov Ibrishimov - absent Ivelina Veselinova Vasileva - here Ivo Angelov Hristov - here Iglika Ivanova-Subeva - here Ilian Angelov Timchev - here Imren Ismetova Mehmedova - absent Irena Metodieva Dimova - here Irena Todorova Anastasova - here Honest Vasilev Veselinov - here Ihsan Halil Hakke - here Yordan Apostolicov - here Yordan Iliev Yordanov - here Yordan Kirilov Tsonev - absent Kalin Dimitrov Vassilev - here Kalin Nikolov Popovski - here Kiril Boyanov Kalfin - here Claudia Georgieva Grigorova-Gancheva - here Kolyo Yordanov Milev - here Konstantin Veselinov Popov - absent Cornelia Petrova Ninova - absent Krasen Georgiev Krastev - here Krasimir Iliev Bogdanov - here Krasimir Lubomirov Velchev - here Krasimir Mitkov Subev - here Krasimir Hristov Yankov - here Christian Ivanov Vigenin - absent Cristina Maximova Sidorova - here Krum Kostadinov Zarkov - here Krastina Nikolova Taskova - here Lalo Georgiev Kirilov - here Lachezar Bogomilov Ivanov - here Lyubomir Boykov Bonev - here Manoil Minchev Manev - here Manol Trifonov Genov - here Margarita Nikolaeva Nikolova - here Maria Yordanova Ilieva - here Martin Vladimirov Tinchev - here Menda Kirilova Stoyanova - here Miglena Doykova Alexandrova - here Milen Vassilev Mihov - absent Milena Tsvetanova Damyanova - here Milko Nedyalkov Nedyalkov - here Mikhail Ivaylov Hristov - absent Mladen Nikolov Shishkov - here Mustafa Sally Karadaye - absent Nadia Spasova Klisurska-Zekova - here Nelly Ruskova Petrova - here Nigyar Sahlim Jaffer - absent Nikola Iliev Dinkov - here Nikolay Asenov Tishev - here Nikolay Veselinov Alexandrov - here Nikolay Georgiev Ivanov - here Nikolay Dimitrov Penev - here Nikolay Ivanov Tsonkov - here Nikolay Krastev Boshkov - here Nikolay Tsvetanov Sirakov - here ... 139.. we have a jurisdiction. [[Noise and lines.]] Please vote on extending working hours to 10:00 p.m. This is what we are voting on the first proposal to extend the meeting to 10:00 p.m. Vote 164 MPs: 104 against 16, abstention 44. The motion is accepted. Speaking, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u264	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I could not make a reply to the honourable Mr. Bikov, but he correctly pointed out that pensions are a system. Therefore, I would like to explain once again the logic of our proposal. Exactly because pensions are a system and this whole area is so important, we are not talking about an increase or reduction in pensions. We are talking about their recalculation, about a systematic approach that has its deep logic and fits in time. When you retire in a few years, you will retire on the basis of a certain formula, the basis of which is the average insurance income for the moment you retire. This thing has evolved, and you should be able in the next 20 years, God willing, to live a lot after the pension, to build your life in relation to this income and pension to guarantee you some of the most normal living conditions. We talk a lot about pensions being shamefully low, and that is a fact. But there is one thing that very much harasses Bulgarian citizens, not only pensioners, by the way, but their grandchildren. And that is, in addition to being shamefully low, they give rise to a very sharp sense of injustice. Why? Exactly because there is no systematic approach and logic in the way they are calculated. Every government, trying to make a gesture to the pensioners, raises their standard of living, raises either the lowest pensions, or raises the thresholds, or removes the ceiling, or raises it slightly higher. But all of this is a product of political volition, of some gesture on one side, which will always, ladies and gentlemen, be criticised by those who are in opposition, that it is not enough, and will always be defended by those who are in government, that this is the maximum that the budget gives. We propose to change this approach and introduce a normal way that is beyond political passions, which is justified by actuarial estimates and which can put once and for all order in this system. Due to the fact that for 10 years since 2008, this thing, which is the most normal and legal prerequisite, has not been done to do it first, will require a budget shock of more than 900 million. lv. But they are absolutely well deserved and over the years will contribute to financial and budgetary consolidation, not vice versa. Because otherwise the budget will always be pressed by various populist demands from one side or another and by various budget pressures from the other. In order to overcome this thing, we need to frame the system once and for all. This framework is not invented now, not invented in Bulgaria. It operates in all countries and is called the updating of the pension, of all pensions, dear Minister, and every year. Otherwise, the sense of injustice caused by the fact that people who gave their lives to work do not have enough money to live normally, is further fueled when the same person with the same internship, the same profession receives a very different pension due to the fact that one of them retired in 2015, for example, and the other in 2006. This sense of injustice in more than two million and a hundred thousand people in Bulgaria is as dangerous as their low incomes. It makes the political debate escalate continuously and we lead it every year. Many of you have been MPs before me and know that this is repeated every year. The solution is only one.. we vote as much money as is needed to reclaim all pensions, we have proposed by 2013, then every year to follow the same legal, normal process with which people feel, if not rich, at least in a society that moves under some rules and especially in respect of the principle of justice. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u265	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Gurnevsky wanted a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u266	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, dear colleagues! For 20 hours in this House, we have been discussing the country's budget, which has been turned by the opposition into political action, especially if we go back to the opposition's behaviour last night and the political circus they created in this House. Yes, the budget is a balance of revenue and expenditure. Yeah, you have to look for that balance. But in your speeches, you sought only the investigation of one country in all its 70 years, and none of you mentioned the reason. As you are politicizing today, I will try to remind you of it, with the emphasis being entirely on the budget and I will conclude with a proposal. Yesterday it was thoughtful how proud you are here with your speeches and how you only care about art. One, he's the most important thing to you. I can't believe there's no art. Is 1 the most important to you? For 50 years, privileges under art. 1. You as heirs of the nomenclature...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u267	Which paragraph?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u268	Please, guys!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u269	...of Homeland Security. Here were spoke general sons of State Security, guerrilla sons and all kinds of things. The uncontrolled privileges of art. Art. 1 and Art. 1 2 and all the others were the second hand people who justly some of you said here that they had built Bulgaria. Yes, Bulgaria was a soclagger whose elite died in concentration camps. We are talking about the pensions of the people who built this country, and none of you have mentioned the pensions of those people - over 100,000 people killed on those concentration camps who did not live up to these pensions. What happened in the end? All that these Bulgarians built, the Bulgarian Communist Party lied to them from the Socialists became capitalists. Twenty years of relentless and cruel robbery from the nomenclature and State Security, and you plundered all those people whose pensions we were talking about had built. He's right, Mr. Stoynev, when he says yes, he didn't have the pension fund because he was invested. Yeah, but those investments you were invested in, you robbed them after November 10th. So you have these people's assets. It is very unethical for you to talk about the pensions of these people you have plundered through what you have privatized. It is no accident that the Bulgarian people have a fairy tale: if you meet a communist on your way, if he is hungry, feed him, if he is thirsty, give him water, if he is naked, put him on, if he is barefoot, put him on, but do not give him power, because if a communist takes power, our state burns and fails. [[Voices: "Eee!" and laughter from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] First R & D, 1989, communism is over. [[Voices: "Bravo!" and applause by GERB.]] Second bankruptcy...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u270	On the budget!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u271	The theme is the budget! Sit down, you'll be able to replicate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u272	Second R &amp; D of Lukanov's hungry and cold winter. Did you forget her? The next one is the three-dollar pension for Jean Videnov. Did you forget it, or do you remember it?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u273	You don't remember. SPAS Gurnevski: And during the time of Oresharski, when you had looted, when his economic minister was your leader, Mrs. Nino. Should I tell you which enterprises lost the Bulgarian people? Shall we start with the Fair, shall we start with Bulgartabac? If the CCB had not gone bankrupt, four years ahead the Bulgarian pensioners would have triple pensions. That's why you don't talk? You blame those people who weren't there at the time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u274	We don't blame them.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u275	Your leader is speaking about national security because the budget, pensions are also national security. She was entrusted with 1997 with an enterprise of national security, which is called the "Technoimpex" built by the communist state to decide the national security of Bulgaria. Instead of developing this undertaking for national security and protecting national security, it decided to ensure its own security and put it in its small pocket. Is this the security you promise the Bulgarian pensioners? [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u276	On the subject, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u277	I'm on it. The oligarchs see the arrests, the untold riches, only in the last two months untold wealth for billions in five oligarchs and five related to the Bulgarian Communist Party.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u278	Time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u279	Time, Mr. Gurnevsky!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u280	If you return a quarter of what this people have stolen and from your oligarchs, 20 years the Bulgarian pensioners will have triple pensions, there will be double the wages...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u281	Mr. Gurnevsky, time! You'll have an opportunity for a duvet, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u282	What you're accusing GERB of is...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u283	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u284	I'm done.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u285	Get it over with!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u286	...that after these 64 years of march in the oncoming movement now someone is treating your wounds and the management majority's program is such. This is how incomes, incomes grow, that people at the end of the term will have what they promised and what you are talking about. But I propose, as a member of the Anti-Corruption Commission in Parliament, that I also have such a decision of the Commission, proposed by me and adopted by the entire committee, that this Parliament decide on 100 symbolic transactions of the transition, all together to solve them. To be checked, to carry out the first revision of everything illegal...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u287	Mr. Gurnevsky, your time! You're too late.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u288	...grabbed to return the tens, hundreds of millions of these thefts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u289	Please, Mr. Gurnevsky, the weather! We're running out of time. - What's the line? Let's finish the line procedure. Mr. Simov, do you have a line? [[Noise and lines.]] Here you go, Mr. Ivanov, for a line. You're giving up a line? Okay. There are no lines. Here you are, Mr. Kutev, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u290	Colleagues, what is the point of this debate that we are having today, given that parliamentary practice shows that practically key changes in this debate in this House cannot be made in the budget. In fact, budgets come out of the room as they entered. Especially on a key issue that concerns 800 million or 900 million, as much as this proposal is worth. It is clear that this proposal will not be accepted by the majority. That is to say, this conversation only makes sense within which you state one policy as governors and we, as opposition, declare another. What's the point in this policy statement? For me, the point is that as you answer to your constituents, so do we. That is, by stating certain policies at the moment and saying that we want income recalculation to base 2013, this means that whenever we eventually come to power, we are obliged to carry it out. And you're part of you in the same room to remind us. In other words, I think this dispute is principled and it is extremely important. In this context, for me, the main question is what will happen to the budget? So we move on to last year's version, in which, for example, 2 billion or a billion and a half go into surplus and, as has already been said here, go into infrastructure, whatever that means, or 1 billion of them are intended in advance to raise people's pensions. This is the key issue and it is political. I, by the way, with the infrastructure that you are doing, the governments of Boyko Borisov, I have a problem with everyone so far. And my problem is that whenever anyone is the world's ruler for 10 years in a row, 10 years is talking about highways, talking about how he builds highways and finally we don't have a decent highway, and the Lyulinian is ruining itself, and the Thracian, which is made, is on baboons and you can't drive on the right side of the road, and you have to drive on the left and so on, when it's a ten-year policy, it means only one thing that she either wasn't a priority, or just because some money comes from Europe, from which you take percentages, hence you announce it for politics. I do not see how this has improved the life of the Bulgarians because the highway is now to be done again. The first one to become ready 2009 - 2010. But where is the problem with all this, and why am I talking about it now? The problem is that a million and two hundred of our fellow citizens live around and below the poverty line. That's every fifth, guys. Every fifth of our citizens is actually in extreme poverty, he lives below the poverty line, that is, he lives on magic. He can't live with his income. Here's the question for each of us: how do we look at these people when we get home? They're our neighbors, they're our cousins, they're our relatives, some of them. How do we look at them, what do we tell them? We tell them: the communists were in power, or we apologize and say: "Well, he Boyko Borisov came to power. You understand this conversation has to end somewhere. No matter who's in charge right now, someone has to get the state out of this place. And this, with the back and the reminder of the People's Court and what not, does not take Bulgaria out of the place. If we want to get the state out of this place, we need to find the way and the way through a million and two hundred poor, but we are talking about poor under the poverty line, that is, people who cannot live with their incomes are not found. What do you expect from us? Let's just say you made a great budget. Well, it's not great! What's more, the money's there! So this conversation here is purely political. In this conversation is stated, you state at least to me, my reading: Well, we can so! That's what we did! We tell you, no, people, there's something else that can be done! It's clear you won't hear us. It is clear that you are voting on what is written there.. if the communists, as Gurnevsky says, want it, we are against it............................................................................. Okay, if this is the conversation we want to get to, let's do it! However, I stress: the budget is not just any balance of revenue and expenditure. The budget is the most condensed expression of politics. Because if you make a policy in any way, it's done through the budget. And with this policy that we are showing right now, you clearly say: me every fifth Bulgarian who has nothing to eat, I do not care! This is the way out of here. Should we all make it possible to get these Bulgarians out of poverty? Bulgaria may be a poor European country, but it is a European country! Bulgaria is a country that exists and lives in the club of the rich. And we must compare ourselves and know that we cannot live in such a country, in a European country, every fifth Bulgarian living in misery and beyond misery! That's your responsibility right now. Everything else is running away from responsibility. That's the solution! There's a solution, only you don't have it. Why would you prefer to give money for infrastructure and not for pensions? Because you can't take commissions from pensions! [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u291	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote, fellow Members. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Mustafa Karadayi and a group of MPs. They voted 154 MPs: 66, 56 abstentions. The offer is not accepted. [[Noise and lines.]] Revoting? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u292	Dear Ms. Karayancheva, dear colleagues! For technical reasons, some could not vote. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u293	Please, re-election mode. Vote 166 MPs: 75, against 65, abstention 26. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 166 MPs: for 71, against 70, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. I am now voting on the version of § 3 of the Commission Report. Vote 169 MPs: 93, against 62, abstention 14. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u294	The Commission supports, in principle, the text of the importer under § 4, but proposes to be rejected as it is reflected in its systematic position in § 3, item 3. 26.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u295	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the rejection of § 4. Vote 160 MPs: 142, against 13, abstention 5. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u296	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u297	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 5, which shall become § 4, supported by the Commission. They voted 163 MPs: 102, against 27, abstention 34. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u298	Proposal of the Members of the National Assembly Nadia Klisurska-Zekova and Violeta Jeleva to create a new paragraph in Transitional and Final Provisions. They propose to create § 5a: sssssssssssssssssssssssssssssss. In the Labour Code (prom. DV, No. ...), in art. 261 words the amounts set by the Council of Ministers shall be replaced by 30 per cent for each hour of work or part of it. The Commission does not support the proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u299	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Klisurska.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u300	Honourable President, honourable Members, Dear Minister! Here's a reasonable suggestion. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u301	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u302	I'll ask Mrs Daritkova personally. The status quo, Mrs. Daritkova, is it all right with you that all employees at the Ministry of Health are doing night labor for which the rate has not been changed since 2007? She's 25. Since then, neither have you gentlemen been in charge for ten years! Four hundred thousand people are doing night labor, which is extremely harmful to health, and since 2007 this rate has not changed. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u303	Colleagues, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u304	Please be quiet in the hall! Madam President! [[Noise, lines and shouts: "Eee!" by GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u305	Mrs. Klisurska, that's my job! [[Noise and lines.]] Please, colleagues, for silence in this room! [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u306	Ladies and gentlemen! At the beginning of this year...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u307	Wait for the room to shut up and then. Quiet, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u308	...we from the parliamentary group raised the question of the rate of night work as regulated in the Regulation on the structure and organisation of the salary. We asked the Minister of Labour and Social Policy what their vision was in this direction. And what did the minister tell us that the responsibilities regarding the night rate are related to a correction of labour legislation. That's what we're doing right now. In Transitional and Final Provisions, precisely because the status quo does not suit us, we make proposals to amend art. 261, which regulates night labor, in the way that in art. 262 of the Labour Code is regulated overtime. Whoever knows the Labour Code knows that overtime is settled at a rate above the rate of overtime in working days, holidays and national holidays. In the same way we enter into art. 261: "Everyone who does the night's work for each hour of work shall be indexed by 30 percent. That's our offer. I hope that the status quo does not suit you, and I hope that this proposal of ours will receive the necessary amount of support and we will edit so that night labor and people who work at night get fair wages. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u309	Thank you, Mrs. Klisurska. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote Mrs. Klisurska and Mrs. Jeleva's unsupported proposal. I request a voting regime to create a new § 5a. Vote 149 MPs: 68 against 56, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u310	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u311	Statements? I can't see. And the apps!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u312	There are five annexes to the Law: Annex 1 to art. 9, p. 1 of the Law; Annex 2 to art. 14; Annex 3 to art. 15, para. 4; Annex 4 to art. 16 and Annex 5 to art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u313	I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 6, which shall become § 5, supported by the Commission, and the five annexes which Mrs Stoyanova by importer has just read. Vote 148 MPs: 102, against 26, abstention 20. The proposal is adopted and thus the State Social Security Budget Bill for 2019. Negative vote, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u314	Dear Madam President, dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Yesterday, when I explained to you why I voted against the name of the Law, you laughed. You laughed that I said that the name of the Law voted against it, because a name must correspond to the content of this law, then, after your laughter, until now, with your abundant votes and dim statements you proved that I was right. You proved that I was right because this law cannot in any way be a State Social Security Act. This could be the Law on False Hopes, the Law on Unfulfilled Promises, the Law on State Infamy towards People's Social Problems, because you, as you voted on this law, have shown neglect to both the problems of the unemployed and the problems of the pensioners and the problems of mothers. And I cannot vote for the entry of this law into force because tomorrow they will ask me: with what mind did you vote for such a law to enter into force, which is against all the socially weak in Bulgaria? That is why I voted against and therefore I think that with a clear conscience I can come out of this room and tell everyone: I am not one of the authors of this antisocial law! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u315	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Second negative vote? I won't. Minister Petkov wants the floor. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] You have the floor, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u316	Thank you. Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The long and sometimes heated debates on the Draft Law on the State Social Security Budget for 2019 prove that the issue of pensions, as one of the first researchers of the new Bulgarian pension system had found, is a top political issue. And that is not the case, since the insurance system provides two million and eight hundred thousand working Bulgarians, and for more than two million and one hundred thousand pensioners it provides their basic income. At the same time, the insurance system is a financial system that operates on the basis of certain principles and actuarial rules and does not tolerate excessive political interference. The cost-covering principle of financing, for example, implies that current insurance payments must be financed with the incoming insurance contributions and not with the taxes paid by pensioners themselves. I am confident that, with the budget of state social security for next year, we are returning to this fundamental principle. As a result of the continuing economic growth, increased employment and income growth, the income from social security contributions in the next year's budget increased by about 15% and covered two-thirds of the insurance payments. To compare, I would remind you that only three years ago, the income from insurance contributions financed less than 50% of the expenditure on the state social security budget. The high growth in insurance revenues allows to finance the increased by nearly 700 million insurance payments under the state social security budget for the next year, while reducing the deficit by 263 million. lv. The greater financial autonomy, respectively on the small dependence of the state social security budget on the state budget, is undoubtedly the dignity of the adopted budget. Allow me here to answer some of the questions that were raised during the debate. The question that Mrs. Klisurska put about the minimum social security benefits that you accepted with the vote on Annex 1 to the state social security budget. Yes, for many years, the state social security budget has been subject to social security thresholds, as we call them, on basic economic activities and groups of professions agreed by the social partners. As is known, for the third time this year, no negotiations were held between the social partners to negotiate minimum insurance benefits, and the principle position of employers' organisations is that they must drop out. In this situation in Annex 1 to the budget, the minimum salary for next year is also minimal social security income, and this approach leads to an increase of 4.7 percent of the average minimum social income, so there is a real increase, but it is not imposed on an administrative basis. The budgetary law sets out each year certain basic parameters of the insurance system, such as the minimum amount of pension, minimum and maximum social security income and minimum amounts of certain insurance payments. This approach allows reporting of the current socio-economic situation in the country, but I would like to stress that the individual amount of pensions and other insurance payments depends on the individual contribution and the insurance behaviour of each insured person. I will point to some averages, because this issue has been put in the debate very strongly. The average pension amount of a pensioner next year will grow by 24 BGN. as a result of the indexing of pensions by 5.7% and the higher burden of the insurance service in the pension formula and will reach 386,27 BGN and the maximum amount of pensions will allow more than 40 thousand pensioners whose pensions are currently limited to the ceiling, from 1 July next year to receive the full amount of their pensions. The budget for next year reflects the positive, stabilizing effects of the parametric pension reform implemented in 2015. At the same time, the proposed changes to the Social Security Code put into effect some of the legal changes adopted in 2015 related to the calculation of the individual coefficient in the pension formula. The pensions from the beginning of next year will be calculated in a new way, which will facilitate future pensioners in exercising their right to retirement and will more closely bind social security rights to the contribution. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I believe that today you have adopted a realistic financial plan of the insurance system for next year, which guarantees the social rights and social security of the Bulgarian citizens. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u317	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. [[Noise and lines.]] Dear MPs, there will be a break at 3:30. I hear the calling. Let's start with the next point, at 3:30, we'll announce the break. Let's move on to the consideration of: SECOND VOICE OF THE LAW PROJECT FOR THE STATE BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF BULGARIA FOR 2019, No 802-01-49. Implemented by the Council of Ministers on 29 October 2018. Welcome to the Second Reading Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u318	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Before moving to the Report of the State Budget Act of the Republic of Bulgaria, please ask for a procedure for Ms. Rositsa Velkova's admission to finance, Mrs. Dobrin Pinjurov, Director of the Directorate of Finance at the Ministry of Finance, Mrs. Vladimir Petrov, Director of State Expenditures and Ms. Nadejda Genova, Director of the Directorate of Finance of the Municipalities.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u319	We are voting for admission to the guest room presented by the rapporteur. Vote 94 MPs: 87, against 2, abstention 5. The motion is accepted. Please invite the Quaestors to the hall. We move on to reading the report. Here you go, Mrs. Ilieva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u320	"The State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019." The Commission supports the text of the importer on the name of the Law. Under art. 1 has a proposal of the MP Julian Angelov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1.1. In para 1 I. "Accounts, benefits and donations', i.e. 1.5 the number ssuppl 5 330 700,0 is replaced by supplied 5 330 720,0s. 1.2. In para. 2. II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the National Representative Vesela Lecheva: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2, the following amendments and additions shall be made in Section III: 1. in line 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 2. create row 1.6: ..1.6. additional funds for the implementation of PMS 129 of 2000 to determine minimum differentiated amounts of money for physical education and sport 3 200,0 The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) of row I. "Accommodations, benefits and donations" (the number "25 693 299,8") is replaced by "2 28 426 625,4" (the number is replaced by "the number") and "the number" (the number) is replaced by "the number" (the number). (b) in row 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (c) of row 1.1. "Corporate tax' is replaced by "Corporate tax' by "Corporate tax' and "Corporate tax' and "Corporate tax' is replaced by "Corporate tax'. (d) of row 1.3. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (e) of row 1.4. The value added tax (s) is replaced by the number (s) of the value added (s) of the value added (s) of the value added tax (s) of the value added (s) of the value added tax (s) of the value added tax (s) of the value added tax (s) of the value added (f) of row 1.5. "Acts' is replaced by "5 330 700,0' by "5 874,770,5'; (g) of row 2. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 2. In para. 2: (a) Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. - on line one. the number of the current expenditures is replaced by the number of the current expenditures of the number of the 10 491 0559.9 is replaced by the number of the current expenditures. - in row 1.1. The number "supplied' is replaced by the number "supplied' and replaced by the number "supplied' and the number "supplied' is replaced by "supplied'. - in row 1.2. "Subsidies and other current transfers' is replaced by "1 157 369,3'; - in line 1.2.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row 1.4. Current transfers, benefits and benefits to households - in row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "3 395 074,1'; - in row 2.1. "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs' is replaced by "Acceptance of fixed assets and major repairs'. - in row 5 in column 1, the name of the indicator is changed to: - Row 5.4 is created: "B" is equal National Investment Fund 500 000,0 - create row 5.5: "5." Regional Development Fund and/or support underdeveloped regions 300 000,0 - a row 5.6 is created: supposed to Fund for Rehabilitation of the Fourth Class Road Network 400,000. (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (transfers) " net: - in line III. "Budget relationships (transfers)'is replaced by "12,367 507,2" by the number "11,486 769,2" is replaced by "12,367 507,2." - on line one. The number of transfers provided for: - in row 1.1. The value of the goods is the same as the value of the goods. - in row 1.2. The total amount of public contribution to be paid by the State to the State shall not exceed the amount of the contribution of the State to the total amount of the public contribution. - in row 2. ==References====External links==*Study transfers from: - in row 2.1. The amount of public contribution to be recovered shall be the amount of the contribution from the Member State concerned and shall be the amount of the contribution from the Member State concerned in accordance with the rules laid - in row 2.1.1. For the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the number "seven 150.0" is replaced by "seven 525.4." - in row 2.1.2. For the Ministry of Transport, Information Technology and Communications, the number - in line 2.2. The National Treasury Fund for the Ministry of Finance. (c) of row IV. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. 3. In para. 3 (row V. 4. In para. 4 (row VI "Operations in the part of the funding') is replaced by 5. They're creating an al. 5.. The resources of the reserve under para. 2, row 5, rows 5.4., 5.5. and 5.6. are spent on the basis of an act of the Council of Ministers on a proposal from the Minister of Finance. (6) The Regional Development Fund and/or support for underdeveloped regions as well as the Fourth Class Road Network Rehabilitation Fund shall be managed by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works. (7) The National Investment Fund shall be managed by the Minister of Economy. (8) The sources of funds for the funds under para. 5 shall be planned in the central budget and managed in order and manner as an account with EU funds. For this purpose, the Minister of Finance shall submit a draft regulation, which shall be validated by the Council of Ministers. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Milen Mihov and a group of MPs. The Commission shall in principle support the proposal, which shall be reflected in art. 97. Proposal of the National Representative Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of narrated representatives: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1.1 In para.1.1 I. The number 10 830 000,0 is replaced by 10 831 146,6 (increased by 1 146,6). 1.2 In para.2. II. the figure 13 323 731.6 is replaced by 13 323 751.6 (increased by 1 146.6). The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 2 Section II 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 1, para. 3 Section V, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 1.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u321	Thank you, Mrs. Ilieva. Procedure. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u322	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! My procedure is related to the vote on art. 1. Article 1, as you all know, contains the budgetary framework in which all other provisions and proposals are entered and must be reflected. You remember that during the discussion of the budget last year, an unpleasant precedent was created where changes to art. 6 made it so that there was confusion here and this issue went to the Constitutional Court. By Decision No 4 of 13 March 2018, the Constitutional Court ruled that, given the fundamental principle of balance between revenue and expenditure, where each expenditure has a clearly defined financial source, a law which provides for spending of funds outside the adopted general budgetary framework, including the balance, would be internally contradictory and contrary to art. 4, para. 1 of the Constitution................................................................................................ In other words, the overall vote on art. 1 largely recoded the National Assembly's ability to make changes to the following provisions. That is why I think it is wise to hold the debates under art. 1 but the votes under art. 1 be at the end when we are aware of the will of the National Assembly on the other texts of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u323	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Is there a reverse opinion? I won't. The proposal is procedural, it is based in practice on the Constitutional Court and should be put to the vote. We are voting on Mr. Zarkov's proposal to hold the debates under art. 1 and postponed voting on the text of the Law on the grounds set out therein. Before that, the procedure. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u324	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Since you were entering the Chamber, many failed to vote and, on the other hand, did not understand what they had to vote on. This is what we're talking about. The Constitutional Court has spoken. We violated the Constitution. Every year this thing happens with this Public Finance Act, which has been adopted with this order of voting. My re-voting procedure is to understand this error so that, by the end of the sitting, if there are changes in the state budget framework, they will be reflected and then voted definitively. Otherwise everything we're doing here, everything we're proposing, and, God forbid, to accept something from the opposition, it just doesn't make any sense.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u325	Mr. Ivanov, don't underestimate the people's representation. Mr. Zarkov was specific enough when he announced his request. Please, re-election mode. 140 MPs voted: 50, against 76, abstention 14. The offer is not accepted. We are continuing the debate. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u326	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Mr. Chairman, I address you because Mrs. Karayancheva is sitting in her seat, but basically the remark is to her as President of the National Assembly. The procedure in the manner of conduct is as follows. A month ago, we deposited a Law amending and supplementing the Public Finance Act, which directly concerns the adoption of today's framework of the state budget. This bill, to date, has not been reviewed by committees, has not been distributed, nor has it entered the Chamber. It concerns the way in which the procedure for voting on the state budget is adopted......................................................................................... 1 to be voted after the adoption of all the others. If we had looked at this law and had held the debates here in the Chamber, there would be no misunderstanding today, which is being made at the moment, because by accepting art. I'm telling you this again, allowing it to be accepted. 1 Before everyone else, you make any other suggestions that are made. This is a harsh violation, first of the rights of the MPs to make their proposals, and second of all, does not reflect in any way the desire of the Bulgarian citizens to protect their interests in this law. That is why I am doing this procedure in the manner of conducting such bills to be put into the Chamber in due time before the actual budget is started, because there are other procedures concerning the allocation of funds from the state budget, such as: spending the surplus uncontrollably by the Council of Ministers. When are we gonna see this bill? For the next budget? That's what I don't understand! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u327	I don't think today can solve this issue. We put the motion to the vote. I shall open the deliberations on the article under consideration. 1 of the budget, as well as the title of the Bill, we are looking at these two points at the same time. Mr. Angelov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u328	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen. I take the floor to motivate our proposal, made by a group of MPs, on the budget of the state and the financing of a Bulgarian organization, of a Bulgarian association, as well as a number of other associations and NGOs from the Bulgarian budget. The offer we made concerns an increase of 20,000. lv. in the part of the statement of revenue from excise duties. This group of MPs who have signed this proposal, we believe that the Bulgarian state from the fight against the grey economy will certainly have more revenue from excise duties, that they will be more than 20 thousand more. lv. That is why we have made this proposal to help an organization called the Association of the Generations of Macedonia. My request is to all MPs in the Bulgarian Parliament, although the Commission has rejected it to support this proposal, because these people, descendants of great Bulgarian families from Macedonia, who live in Bulgaria, have established an association a few years ago and work actively. Most of them are elderly people, but they really work actively to preserve Bulgarianity, to record all memories related to their families, with their participation in different conferences not only in Bulgaria but also in Macedonia. I'll take the liberty of saying some of these last names. I think a lot of you are gonna get those last names to talk a lot. I cannot explain why the Budget Committee has rejected this proposal. Isn't the Bulgarian state able to separate 20,000? lv. for a Bulgarian association of the descendants of Shapkarev, Alexandrov, Evtimovtsi, Miladinovtsi, Drangov, Radovski, Grebenarov, Popiordanov, Kaichevi and a number of others. I'll read them one more time. I'll read from the stands for the first time, but I'll read them again. I appeal to everyone who is also related to the Bulgarian Army there are very few MPs in this Parliament. My request is the parliamentary group of GERB party to support this proposal, because it is really about preserving a small part of the Bulgarian history and Bulgarian heritage from Macedonia, of great Bulgarian families who have fought for the rights and freedoms of the Bulgarians in Macedonia and have found refuge in the free mother Bulgaria. I will read them again: Drangov, Shapkarev, Aleksandrov, Evtimov, Miladinovtsi, Radovski, Grebenarov, Popiordanov, Kaichevi and a number of others. These families are related to the latest Bulgarian history. These families can really contribute much more with their presence in Macedonia and Bulgaria than even state politics, because people know them and know their families, they know what they have done for the Bulgarians in Macedonia; because they know how they have sacrificed their lives, or because they know what creativity they have written and left it as an inheritance for the future Bulgarian generations. This proposal is supported not only by us as MPs, it is supported by various institutions and state and municipal, by different mayors from BSP and GERB. It is also widely supported by a number of important municipalities and institutions in Bulgaria, which shows that really this association can be financed through the Bulgarian budget with one, again I say, 20 thousand. lv. It's not $200,000, it's not $2 million. This is about attitude. They are still on their own, even though they are adults, find funds, issue books, make conferences, go around and tell the truth about Bulgarianity in Macedonia. Why shouldn't the Bulgarian state help them? What's wrong? My request is that you support the proposal that we have made with our colleagues. In this way we will really show that the Bulgarian Parliament can be united at least in this respect to the memory and history of Bulgaria.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u329	Thank you, Mr. Angelov. Are there any lines? There are no lines. Ms. Vesela Lecheva said a statement on the texts discussed. You have the floor, Mrs. Lecheva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u330	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Before the debate enters into its substance, when it will talk about the large figures, I think that this debate can give a new beginning to a new and different debate, no matter which side of the House the proposal is made, to understand the substance of the proposal in particular. This will show a new face to the MPs. I say this with conviction because the proposal I will make concerns nearly a million Bulgarian young people and children, a million and a hundred thousand children from pre-school groups, the entire Bulgarian schooling youth, students, students and students. I am convinced that it can meet the support of the entire hall and the fact that it concerns the sphere of sport. We are all united when we stand on the stands and are grateful for the Bulgarian successes when the Bulgarian flag rises. Let us, however, in our proposal today see the other side of the sport as health, sport as education and education of the Bulgarian youth. Very often we listen both in plenary and in the discussions, in the debates, when the main policies related to the young people of Bulgaria are discussed, that there is no mass sport in Bulgaria. But does anyone ask themselves what a mass sport means? Unconditionally, this is related, first of all, to sports infrastructure, but not to large sports facilities, sports halls, which are for the big sporting events, but to those sports playgrounds that are necessary for the day-to-day activities of children and young people. Secondly, what does it take to have a mass sport? This is a process by which we can cultivate lasting habits in children and young people. Alphabetical truth is for all sports specialists and for all of us that lasting habits in sports can be raised from the earliest childhood. Permanent habits are raised and the most beneficial time for this is when children are covered by the educational system. Thirdly, to make a better environment and give children opportunities to participate in sports activities and activities. Fourth, it is mostly important, of course, and the role of the coach and the sports specialist, motivation for the Bulgarian coaches, sports specialists and, above all, teachers in physical education and sports. It is the Decree 129 of the Council of Ministers, established in 2000, that provides an application for similar policy, support and vision for the development of mass sport in Bulgaria. Created in 2000, it was only updated once in 2006. What is the issue of Decree 129? It determines the minimum differentiated amounts of money for sport of each child, student and student. Today, the minimum size of the money for sport of each child is BGN 2. for a whole year; for a student 3 BGN for a whole year, and 3 leva. For a student. Our proposal is to update these minimum dimensions with an update, which reads as follows: 3 BGN. for a child from preschool groups, BGN 5 for a student and 6 leva. for students and students. This means the following: if we accept Veliko Tarnovo University, which has 15 thousand students, today it receives 40 thousand leva under the current decree. If we accept the amount we offer for an update, it will receive nearly 75, 80 thousand. lv. This means a serious amount which can be allocated for sport improvement, for sports activities of all students. Of course, this is not just about Veliko Tarnovo University, but all higher education institutions. When I say that sports policy can unite us, I have always said that it should be national and not close party, a few months ago the new Law on Sports was adopted and the new Law on Sports was written in art. 132, namely Order 129, which states that annually the state budget of Bulgaria determines the minimum differentiated amounts of money for sport of each student child. Let us adopt this update, let us also comply with the new law on sport by proposing this update for a really more effective and more quality policy for Bulgarian children and young people.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u331	Thank you, Mrs. Lecheva. Are there any lines? There are no lines. For the next statement Mrs. Dora Yankova has submitted a request. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u332	Dear Mr. Chairman, Mr. Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Dear Ministers, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members! At the first reading of the Bill, we shared our concerns that through the revenues and expenditures that are at stake, and this year we will not be able to influence the big contrasts between the regions of the country. That is why we have proposed policies to your attention. I hope that you will look into them and support them, because, by the way, some of them you have also recorded in your Management Program. First of all, our great concern is that the third-class road network will not receive the necessary resources, given the long-awaited toll system and people's nourished expectations that in 2019 much more money will come. There will not be much money in 2019 because from mid-2019 will be only institutionalized tol system. Looking at the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works, we have the great concern that there is no means to rehabilitate the third-class road network and it is becoming increasingly compromised. Therefore, in capital expenditure, we have estimated more than 630 million. lv. Here I will draw your attention to the item. 5 of para. 2, where you have provided a reserve for unforeseen or urgent expenses. Our proposal to you is to rename this name as a Reservoir for sustainable development of the regions, unforeseen and/or demanding costs. Here we offer an increase of 1 million. 200,000. BGN, by offering new points 5.4; 5.5; and 5.6, which I will motivate to you. Regional Development Fund to support underdeveloped regions. You have such a policy in your program. We are helping you to start the implementation with 300 million and to actually start supporting the underdeveloped regions. By the way, you also have policies for targeted programmes that you have written down, from which there is not a single one so far developed in the middle of your management. In 5.4 we offer National Investment Fund. First of all, if you look, all Bulgarian municipalities have many public-private partnerships. And if these 500 million can be granted to municipalities, there will be a revival in the partnership with the municipalities under the control of the country itself. For the Fund, Rehabilitation of the fourth-class road network. This is a policy that we propose to make sense of, because it essentially exists in politics. Why do I say the fourth-class road network and the underdeveloped? Once again: in the periphery of the regional cities of the Programme, the integrated plans invest only in cities and, of course, they need to be modernised. Only 8 municipalities have little money that affects the periphery. There are no measures from the European Union, and given that you are giving out the funds in the way that there is no complex impact, of course, if you are still in power, you will spend that money. In para. 4 we have signed the way in which we propose them to be spent, such as the funds from the Regional Development and Assistance Fund of the Regions and the Fund for the Rehabilitation of the Fourth Class Road Network are managed by the Minister of Regional Development and Public Works; the funds from the Reserve, naturally by the Minister of Finance, the Investment Fund by the Minister of Economy. We offer sources of funds for the funds under para. 5 to be planned in the central budget and managed in order and way as an account with EU funds, and for the purpose the Minister of Finance to submit a draft regulation to be established by the Council of Ministers. Here, I'm sure our colleagues will further develop our proposal. We propose an increase for municipalities of 240 million because in the minutes of disagreement between municipalities and between the Ministry of Finance there is something to be done by the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u333	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Are there any speeches? Any lines to the statement? I don't see any MPs who want it. For the next speech he has declared wish Mr. Zhelyo Boychev you are making an exchange. People's representative Krasimir Yankov has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u334	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Mrs. Minister, honourable Members! The 2019 budget can again be formulated as an allocation of some money for the purpose of spending. The state budget is a resource with which, in addition to providing needs in different sectors, opportunities for financing initiatives with strategic and added value should be sought. We also do not see a policy of differentiation between the minimum wage and social benefits in order to stimulate employment engagement and not a life of social benefits. No reform of state and municipal administrations is proposed or at least there are no measures. Budget of surplus! For eight years the management of GERB with such a budget brought Bulgaria tens of billions of new debt. Now is the time to propose a budget of surplus to compensate at least part of the new loans taken by GERB, but again a budget deficit is proposed. And there could have been decentralisation of revenue for municipalities and restoration of local self-government, income from the taxes of individuals and income under the Corporate Income Tax Act at least part of them to enter the municipalities, reform of municipalities, in order to apply a financially sustainable model of local self-government to this governance, which is stable and closest to the people. You could also accept a new ratio of indirect and direct taxes, of course, shifting the burden from indirect to direct taxes. Currently people with low and medium incomes provide the largest percentage of revenue in the budget because they pay the largest percentage of revenue and because they pay taxes in each purchase when buying yogurt or medicines. Frozen income over the entire period of management leads to a severe social disintegration that is the basis of all current popular unrest and your attempt to increase income in some sectors has no effect. It is also the most important prerequisite for demographic collapse. In no way do I see these points being highlighted in the important issues on which a direct solution is sought in the most important law.............................................................................. The money invested for renovation in two consecutive budgets shows your irresponsibility. The money invested for renovation shows that you are socially inadequate, which is clearly seen from the proposed budget for 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u335	Thank you, Mr. Yankov. Is there anyone who wants a line? I won't. The People's Representative Milen Mihov has the floor. Here you are, Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u336	Dear Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, ministers! Firstly, I would like to express my gratitude to the Commission and to all the Members who supported our proposal. As it is supported and will be reflected in its systematic place in art. 97, we need to say a few words about the good we do with this proposal. With this proposal and its acceptance we will spend a good amount of 29 million for the Bulgarian youth, for the Bulgarian studentship. These funds will be earmarked for capital expenditure, for the renovation of student dormitories. Student dormitories, which are owned by the Students chairs and dorms, one enterprise, with the principal Ministry of Education and Science, and the student dorms, which are owned by the higher schools in Bulgaria. I think that all colleagues who have access to higher education understand how much this is necessary for our youth, for our studentship, for young people who have chosen not by mistake to follow in Bulgaria, for those who have chosen to receive good European education in Bulgaria, because in Bulgarian universities everyone able, ambitious and working youth can receive a good European education in all spheres of higher education. For all these young people, it is necessary to bring into good condition the student dormitories, which have generally been depreciated in the last 30 years. In many ways, a small part of them retreat to the lower level of the average household standards, which has a Bulgarian family. I appeal to all my fellow Members and believe that you will support the Commission's proposal. All MPs can be proud of this decision. Once again, thank you to the colleagues who supported it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u337	Thank you, Professor Mihov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any Members of Parliament willing to speak? Mr. Boychev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u338	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Ministers, Deputy Prime Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! We're discussing one of the most important documents. You know that the budget is essentially a financial expressor of a government's policy. Our main goal of being here in this Chamber is to raise the well-being of Bulgarian citizens and solve their problems. Therefore, I wish we could read this budget and the important proposals in art. 1. Firstly, I would like to start with an argument that has been going on since last year in the adoption of the budget, about our proposals, about how realistic they were, how much excel tables were or how much they were made, looking at the ceiling. I would like to say that one year later, if you see the Ministry of Finance's inquiries, you can see that the proposals that we have made will only give two examples of the income tax revenue under the State Budget framework of the Ministry of Finance is 2.3 billion, and our proposal then was 2.5 billion. You see the revenue at the moment, they confirm our forecast. It's the same with the VAT. At that time, there were reproaches from this House: "You have wagered unrealistic VAT revenues, there is no way to meet, and there is no way to realise these costs that you are providing for. " " You had bet 9.7 billion VAT revenues, we had staked over 10 billion. The forecast for implementation this year shows one that we were right in the estimates that were presented last year. This gives us confidence to make the proposals this year and you will see that we will again be more accurate, life and health, at the end of this year. Let's go over the main problems Bulgaria is facing right now. I will skip the demographic, as it was largely the subject of the budget for state social security and colleagues talked a lot about this topic. It was seen that there is no policy in support of the Bulgarian families and Bulgarian mothers. I would also like to address a very significant problem that is also significant. There is no doubt that inequalities are one of the biggest in Europe in our country. Let's see, what happens in the budget? In essence, this tax burden ratio is maintained for 70% income from indirect taxes, at the expense of direct taxes, which, we said, essentially transfers the burden on the lowest income groups of the Bulgarian population. Given that you did not support our proposals for changing tax laws and introducing a fairer progressive taxation, this means that this budget brings with it greater and greater inequalities. This budget, adopted within this framework, will continue to move Bulgaria further and further away from Europe. What else do we have as a serious problem on our side? More and more regional differences. Regions that are white spots in which Bulgarian citizens are left without the prospect of development of them and their families. What proposal do you make in the budget for a solution to this problem? One, let's say, timid step, but even that's a very said refusal of the debt grant for the big cities, but that's 21 million. lv. Against the backdrop of increasing regional differences. See what BSP has to offer. It proposes the introduction of at least two funds and they are described in art. 1 of the proposals in this budget lv. It is precisely aimed at stimulating these backward regions and the Fund for Rehabilitation of the fourth-class road network, within the framework of 400 million. lv. in this behind-investment development network. A severe problem in Bulgaria is emerging and the increasing decline in investments, which statistics show. There is no answer in the budget again. On the contrary, the opposite of what needs to be done. We see that for another year and this year you will not meet the capital costs you bet. In essence, you look at capital expenditure as a buffer, not as a means and incentive for economic growth, and we want them to be just such a policy of government to support economic growth. That is why we have offered more capital expenditure, so we are offering your attention and the National Investment Fund so that we can maximise this budget. As I see that my time is over and the problems we are facing are many, but the only good and good thing I can say about this budget is that you will not have to do it. I call on you: support some of BSP's proposals to show that a policy that is in the interests of the majority of Bulgarian citizens is possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u339	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there lines? I can't see. Here you go, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u340	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Deputy Prime Minister, Dear Ministers! I will motivate once again our proposals under art. 1 which refers to the budgets of municipalities. In its negative vote in the adoption of the state budget at first reading, I said that the municipalities remain under the central executive's command next year. In practice, a large part of the proposals of the National Association of Municipalities, taken at a meeting of the Management Board of the Association with full consensus from representatives of all political forces in the local government, were not accepted by the importer of the Draft Budget. Neither the increase in funds for the activities delegated by the State nor the transfers for local activities, matching subsidy, winter maintenance funds, capital subsidy amount to a better year for people and municipalities. Only the increase in salaries in the activities delegated by the state, the growth of the minimum wage.. otherwise a very late action is not a step towards strengthening the role of the local authorities for a better life for the people in the municipalities. There is also a lack of any policy through the budgets of municipalities or other financial instruments for adequate regional policy. My colleagues who spoke before me have already touched on this subject. You have long since given up targeted investment programmes for the backward regions. With the financing of a piece, by decree of the Council of Ministers, you are further deepening regional differences. It is true that local self-government has long needed deep legislative reform and the State Budget Act is not a sufficient tool for this, but with the proposals we make under art. One, we believe we're going to take a serious step. In addition to the increase of capital expenditure funds, a common lending subsidy, a common complementary subsidy in the unitary cost standards in municipal administrations and for a fairer mechanism for the service programmes, a personal assistant for winter maintenance, we also offer the creation, as you have already heard, of three regional policy funds in the part of the "Repair" and the construction of a fourth-class road network...................................................................................................................................................................................................................... These financial instruments on a project basis through the budgets of the Ministry of Regional Development and the Ministry of Economy will be a real opportunity for municipalities to receive support for solving the most important and difficult problems of their own and will give enterprising people in the underdeveloped regions a chance to create products and jobs. My colleagues have called on you to support these proposals. I also call on you because they are important to every Bulgarian citizen in every Bulgarian village and every Bulgarian city. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u341	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Other statements on the title and art. 1? [[(Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.) A line from the National Representative Rumen Gechev.)]] Mr. Gechev, I'm sorry. I asked, but I meant if we don't, let's move on to the vote, but because there is, I suggest we take the break we promised at 3:30. We interrupt for thirty minutes. At 4 p.m., we will continue the discussion. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u342	Ladies and gentlemen, please take your seats! We're continuing the hearing. Professor Gechev, you asked for the floor before the break. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u343	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want you to pay attention to our proposal under art. 1, as I would like to liken it this way. The specific proposals we make under art. 1 under the Law, which is the subject of discussion on the budget, is based entirely on the policies of the European Union. What are our principle differences, which, if overcome, can lead to significantly better results in the development of the Bulgarian economy? Firstly, fellow managers, you are exceptionally betting in the 2019 budget a slight increase in the share of budget revenue and expenditure in gross domestic product to about 37%. However, this is an exception because in the same Budget Act in the three-year framework you foresee a 2020 and 2021 return to levels up to 34%. The conclusion is that this slight increase in the share of the budget in gross domestic product is due to the elections next year. There's no other explanation. At the same time, in the European Union, the crushing majority of the countries are moving into a share of the budget in gross domestic product, colleagues, around 44 At individual times to address crisis situations in countries such as France, Germany and Italy have had, and some of them have a budget share in gross domestic product around and over 50%. Therefore, you are moving in the opposite direction and we propose that the increase in the budget in gross domestic product should follow the practices of the European Union, initially at levels slightly above 40% and approaching 45%. The adoption of this policy would mean extending the opportunities of the Bulgarian state, as colleagues are currently talking about about about 8 billion. lv. There is so much difference between Bulgarian politics and European politics. Imagine what opportunities would open up about the social policy of any government 8 billion. lv. Or an investment policy! Secondly, it was mentioned about the investment programme. The budget you are proposing is in no way linked to significant investment projects in the Bulgarian economy. Dear colleagues, even those colleagues who are not economists, you cannot forget and have not noticed that during the last economic crisis, the European Commission and the individual member states committed themselves to significant budgetary resources to support the financial system and their economy. Let me remind you that in one of the most developed market economies, the United States, personally, then President Obama ordered the release of about 3 billion. The dollar for saving leading companies from the car industry. We see nothing here the government offers as investment programs to stimulate the Bulgarian economy. For example, what is the obstacle, honourable Members, and why do you advocate that for large investment projects, such as Belene, the Bulgarian state should not participate at all? By what logic? Why should we participate in the renovation of private apartments, and we cannot participate in the construction of large investment projects? In France, 80% of nuclear power cannot be state, Britain cannot attract state funds from the People's Republic of China, and in Bulgaria we cannot devote any funds to the construction of such projects. Apart from Belene, we could point to the Turkish stream or the lost South Stream that we are talking about, as well as other investment activities. In addition, honourable Members, we strongly propose to respect European budget deficit limits up to 3% of gross domestic product and to maintain government debt against Maastricht criteria. For what reason, honourable Members, are we maintaining budgetary consolidation, provided that only two countries of the European Union have a small budget surplus in the last two years? This is Holland and Germany. Should I remind you that during the recent crisis, Britain, a highly developed market economy, in most years with a right-wing economy, went on a double violation of the Maastricht criterion with a budget deficit of 8%? Of course, we do not want the budget deficit to chase the deficits of Britain or France and Germany, which were the first two countries to break the Maastricht criterion. But why be more Catholic than the pope? The question is what is the budget deficit and what are the funds used for? We offer, strictly respecting Maastricht's criteria, to have a more active state policy, we offer investment funds with which we can support the development of the Bulgarian economy. So there are conceptual differences between us. Some are the policies of the European Union of fiscal policy and others are the strange features of the so-called budgetary policy of the ruling coalition. Listen to our recommendations, as they rest on European practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u344	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Are there any lines? There aren't any. Any other speeches? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u345	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The budget is the most important law in the country, of the year, because on its basis all financial parameters are defined. Budget 2019 is in a total opposite direction with the needs of the Bulgarian population. This budget again lacks long-term policies and reforms. This budget, which you are once again silently supporting, does not provide any guarantee for the economic development of Bulgaria. It gives no solution to social problems, to demographic problems, at all in every field the money is being spent. No increase in social payments affecting young families, mothers with children. Your praises for a very ambitious and most social budget are exhaling again. By no criteria at all, it does not touch the reality and needs of the population. Prices are going up. The situation in the country is tense and this is what we all see, and we understand that again it leads to social tension and discontent. That's why you need to show some sense and look at our suggestions. And, please, again and silently support them. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u346	Thank you, Mr. Stoilov. Are there any lines to the statement? I won't. Please come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u347	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! In my opinion, this budget is based on the same philosophy that other budgets have been made over the past decade. The surpluses shall be obtained by wagering reduced revenue and shall be equal to costs in any proportion. I will not support this budget because once again the government focuses on greater spending without structural reforms, as well as higher taxes without saving for a crisis. Moreover, it is expected to speed up the growth of gross domestic product when the slope of its fiscal policy rather pushes growth in the opposite direction. Dear rulers, over the past few years you have had the incredible ability and opportunity to practically immunize the state fisk against a crisis scenario. But instead, you decide otherwise. The costs are raised significantly, and not in an investment direction, but for salaries, staff and non-reformed sectors. We're talking about the sector........................................................................................................ In this budget is also a high deficit, but it is unrealistic because with the surplus it could be eliminated. But this is not done because it gives you the opportunity and freedom to spend the excess as you wish. It's about billions of levs that are in your hands and you can spend it without consulting anyone. You bet on growth at high tax burdens, but the generator of this growth is internal. This is extremely unrealistic. In conclusion, I would say that, through the opaque spending of surpluses and the lifting of current costs, I repeat, in unreformed sectors, also increasing the tax burden, this budget, which is a conductor of government policy, leads the state to an irreversible spiral that leads to the bottom. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u348	Thank you, Mr. Boshkov. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the title proposed by the Commission of the Bill and the proposals submitted for a text of art. 1. First, we vote on the title of the Bill. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. There's a vote coming up. Only the title we vote: Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2019 Vote 152 MPs: 129, against 10, abstention 13. The proposal for the title of the Law is accepted. We are going to vote on the proposal of MP Julian Angelov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 159 MPs: 29, Against 37, abstention 93. We are voting on a proposal from the Parliamentary Representative Vesela Lecheva, not supported by the Commission. They voted 161 MPs: 63, against 73, abstention 25. The offer is not accepted. The next vote is on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 162 MPs: 58, against 84, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. The next proposal is from the MP Krasimir Bogdanov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 165 MPs: 28 against 70, abstention 67. The offer is not accepted. We move on to the next text proposal of art. 1, proposed by MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Please, voting mode. They voted 161 MPs: 16, against 77, abstention 68. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the proposal for the text of the importer for art. 1 supported by the Commission and included in the Commission report. Vote 167 MPs: for 100, against 66, abstention 1. The proposal is accepted, and thus the text of art. 1. Come in for a procedure, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u349	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I propose a procedure based on art. In addition, the Court of Justice has held that there is no legal basis for the application of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and Article 108 (3) (c) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The proposals between the first and second votes of the General Law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Act will be reduced to 5 days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u350	Thank you. We are voting on Mr. Stanislav Ivanov's procedural proposal to shorten the period between first and second readings of the first reading LID of the Road Movement Act. Vote 166 MPs: 108, against 48, abstention 10. The motion is accepted. [[Reply on the left.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u351	There's been another vote. I'm sorry! Continue, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u352	Under art. 2 there is a proposal of the MP Krum Zarkov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: The following amendments shall be made: 1. in para. 1 in Section II (a) in row II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. b) on 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. (c) of row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "44 953.8'; (d) of row 2.1. "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs' is replaced by "Accessive of fixed assets and major repairs'; (e) in row 3. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 2. in para. 2: (a) the number of the Supreme Judicial Council (b) the number of the order of the Supreme Court of Cassation (c) the number (d) the order of the Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Bulgaria (e) in row "Judices of the Republic of Bulgaria" (the number..343 (f) of row "National Institute of Justice" (National Institute of Justice (National Institute of Justice) "the number" (s) 3 538.1 ") is replaced by "3 700,"2 "The number" (s) is replaced by "the National Institute of Justice" (s) "The National Institute of (g) the number (h) the number "60%' is replaced by "90%'; (i) in row The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 2.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u353	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. I'm opening the debate. Here you are, Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u354	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal under art. The budget of the judiciary is to increase the cost by 65 million. lv. In fact, this is the proposal made by the Supreme Judicial Council, with the opinion that accompanied the budget at first reading. Why have we decided to continue the debate on this subject, although the Supreme Judicial Council itself, unfortunately, has refused to maintain its justified demands? We're offering 44 million. lv. additionally for staff salaries. The budget provides for the magistrates' salary to rise by 10%, but according to us, and according to the Supreme Judicial Council, the necessary increase is 17%. This is not just a request for a raise, but a request for application of the Law. The salary of the people working in the judiciary is not determined by the air. It is justified in art. 218 of the Law on the Judiciary, which determines the way wages are formed. For example, its second subparagraph states that for the lowest judge's, prosecutor's or investigator's position, the amount of remuneration shall be determined in the amount of the double monthly salary of the employed in the budget sector. Last year this was not done, the Law was not implemented in this part, which is why these magistrates, these judges, these investigators did not receive their due under the Law an increase. So it had to be made up with this budget, which instead of 10%, predicted 17% and so people would get their due. In addition, the SJC's requests under Article are not fully met. 233, para. 6 of the same law as under art. 245, relevant to additional remuneration. We also offer an additional 18.5 million. lv. for capital expenditure, which is also not a proposal that we are just doing. Everyone who works in this area. The members of the Legal Committee know that they have a sharp built deficit in a great many places, including in Sofia, where the Court of Justice has long been tight for magistrates. In Varna, the problem is very acute with the building deficit. The Special Court has repeatedly said they need a new building. So all these demands are not secured in the current budget. This also raises another question about the way it is organised, constructed and voted on the budget of the judiciary. Firstly, I would like to remind you that when we voted here for new members of the Supreme Judicial Council, under the Rules of Procedure and under the Law, we asked candidates for this position to present their concepts. In all, one to one, the so-called draft principle of budgeting was laid down, which had to replace the budgeting of the historical principle, which is applied and which is, in fact, the philosophical base of this law. Unfortunately, a year and a half later none of this happens, and we're going back to the way we were. This should be noted and this is not as much a note to you as to the Supreme Judicial Council. But perhaps an even more important problem, according to art. 117, para. 2 of the Bulgarian Constitution the judiciary is independent. According to Al. 3 of the Bulgarian Constitution, the judiciary has its own budget. This is a direct form of independence. If you do not know or wonder what it means to have an independent budget, even though we vote it here in the National Assembly, the answer to this question gives Decision No 18 of 16 December 1993, I quote: "The executives, including the Council of Ministers and the Ministry of Finance, do not exercise competences in the process of drafting, implementing and accounting the budget. Those bodies shall only include the budget of the judiciary as an integral part of the annual general government budget. For years this hasn't happened and every year we watch the same thing the SJC wants some amount, the Ministry of Finance cuts it off. I regret to say that this year's gap is more than last year's gap was 38 million. BGN, and at the beginning of this year they were passing by about a hundred million. After negotiations between different institutions, the difference of 65 million was reached. lv. This money this year, I am confident, has not been requested by the Supreme Judicial Council on the principle: It is with great regret that the Supreme Judicial Council has given up this request and supported this budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u355	The weather, Mr. Zarkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u356	I think, Madam President, that this is a mistake and I appeal to correct it with the vote. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u357	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any lines? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u358	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! Colleague Zarkov, I am taking a line to allow you three more minutes to develop the thesis after you said that time is not enough for you, but I will also use the right to speak on this issue. 2, the ratio of the budget of the independent judiciary to the national budget. I will not be able to refute all your claims, but I will begin primarily with this: your emphasis is that no more than 38 million are satisfied in the present proposal of...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u359	Sixty-five million.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u360	That is exactly how we compare 65 million from this year to 38 dissatisfied from last year, but colleagues should be aware that in last year's budget the budget managed to finance about 6 to 7 million demands, which was about 43 million. That is, last year, we say most harshly that the rate of satisfaction of the deficit of the gap between the two budgets was about 20%. Now the situation is mirrored by the difference, which is about 170 million, roughly rounded, between the budget of the judiciary, as is a proposal, and what we read, of this 170 million, the additional increase is 104 million. I'm somewhat inclined to accept the difference that you claim remains underfunded in this budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u361	The weather, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u362	I'll use a statement, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u363	Thank you. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go, Mr. Zarkov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u364	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Mr. Kirilov, thank you for your reply and for the opportunity to further develop my thesis, because perhaps we have not agreed. I'm stating the ratio and the differences, but that wasn't the accent of my speech. The emphasis of my speech is the way it is constructed and adopted a budget of the judiciary, and the guarantees that this gives to be called this power truly independent. The fact is that every time there is a gap between what the SJC wants and what the Ministry of Finance finally relaxes, but the very existence of this fact is worrying because it puts us in several hypotheses, each of which is unacceptable. On the one hand, we must assume that the SJC would ask for more than it really needs. This should not be acceptable if we believe that an institution is responsible, and I think it is or, on the other hand, the Ministry of Finance cuts costs that are necessary for the proper functioning of one of the most important public systems. Rather, I think budget cuts and the idea of budgetary austerity prevails and the Finance Ministry suppresses these costs, but for this year I am convinced that this is the case. Since, as I have tried to express in my speech, the requests for wages in particular are not self-sustaining. They're legally established. In the same way as you and I update our salary every three months, the law requires that every year it be updated, compared to the average monthly salary of the employed in the budget sector, the salary of the magistrates. That didn't happen last year, and this year it should be to catch up with that legal pass. These are objective facts, not demands.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u365	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Come in for a statement, Mr. Kirilov, then Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u366	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! I will try to be as focused and as tight as possible in the statement regarding the formation of the budget of the judiciary. Firstly, I will emphasise, as you very well know, that we have here a peculiarity of the budgetary procedure in view of the special status of the judiciary. I ask you to take into account the huge increase in annual funding for all activities, i.e. the general budget relating to the costs of the judiciary, to notice the ratio of revenue from state fees to the total amount of expenditure, i.e. the amount of prefinancing that is from the state budget and you will see that this is a serious part with which the State budget finances the activities of the independent judiciary. The revenue from state fees, without looking at the numbers, is just over 100 million, which are not always covered and implemented, against which the budget of the judiciary is over 700 million. lv. expenses. I want to distract the following: this budget is 150 million more than last year. That is, purely arithmetically compared, the growth in cost-financing in the judiciary is huge, huge, significant. He's not symbolic. Much more than 10% is the growth that increases the cost coverage in the judiciary. Please also note that in any case, Mr. Zarkov, the law... [[The Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsetska Tsacheva enters the Chamber.]] Madam Minister, welcome! You're distracting my statement, which I address to my colleagues.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u367	Mr. Kirilov, focus, though, because your time is running out.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u368	I've been interrupted, Madam President.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u369	Your thoughts, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u370	I concentrate and continue with the following: it is not true that the law is not respected in the formation of the salaries of magistrates in the judiciary, nothing like that. In addition to the fact that the law has been respected and will continue to be respected, a number of amendments concern improving the funding of employees who have had problems with wage formation and the payment of additional labour. In the debates of the Legal Committee, we have established this. The representative of the Supreme Judicial Council at first reading of this tribune also said repeatedly: we will deal with this budget. We will meet the legal requirements as ordered by law. So please and I insist that there be no fear of the magistrates from here: see, they will not be paid 7% of their due increase. Nothing like this is going to happen. This part is guaranteed, this part is covered by the budget that we are looking at and which we are about to vote on is presented to your attention. I would also like to emphasise that the issue of capital expenditure that concerns the problem of certain judicial buildings has been solved annually and years back in a phase, with critical problems already being resolved. Sofia City Court, Criminal College, is now law enforcement by the former so-called Military NDK, which was a mega project. I won't remind which government so we don't have to put the debate back where you are. Only the problems concerning the large judicial buildings here and the Minister of Justice will say remains the relocation of the Administrative Court of Sofia city, and the development of the investment process regarding a new judicial building in Varna.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u371	The weather, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u372	Thank you, Madam President. I hope that I will have the opportunity to further develop my exhibition on specific lines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u373	I also hope and thank you. Are there any lines? Mr. Zarkov, here's an opportunity for a first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u374	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers! Dear Mr. Kirilov, except that I would like to give you back the gesture to further your thesis, to tell you something very concrete: I do not scare the magistrates that they will not raise their salaries, but I tell the magistrates that they know that they are entitled under the Law on the Judiciary to 17% increase and will receive 10. Whether they accept it or not, ask them. It's not about a threat, it's about implementing the law. Last year, this law wasn't implemented. If you want to overcome this injustice, you can do it, if not, you will get an increase, which is not at all what they are entitled to. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u375	Thank you, Mr. Zarkov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u376	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members of the House! Colleague Zarkov, you in your claim did not state the legal basis, which is why I would like to state strongly that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u377	Article 218 of the LCR.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u378	... The WFW is respected that the wage formation is carried out according to the rules of the WFB by the Supreme Judicial Council. When I stood on this stand and pleaded for an increase in the magistrate's salaries or one of the heads of the courts in the Republic, there was always a debate: why do we give so much money to magistrates? Well, we give and we give them! As a matter of fact, we did. With regard to the implementation of the budget under the Fund of Staff, I say again, we have the statement of the Supreme Judicial Council that the law will be respected. It will be respected as we have accepted it, it is promulgated and it works. We have no reason to develop the opposite statement and to assume that it is true and objectively protected. I will stop here, although I have had time to develop the other directions in the current proposal for a budget of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u379	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Mr. Milkov, come in. You have the opportunity to make a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u380	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, colleagues! I didn't take Mr. Kirilov's cue because the next statement was mine. There was no response in his speech and in the Chamber regarding the texts quoted by my colleague in the Constitution and the text of the Constitutional Court's decision: how is a budget of the judiciary being made? If all the decisions yesterday and today were so controversial and provoked emotions, then this proposal today is the most undeniable, in my opinion, because all the accounts for its formulation and arguments were made by the Supreme Judicial Council. For colleagues and citizens to say: The Supreme Judicial Council is the Council of Ministers of the so-called and really independent judiciary. At the moment when people after a year of calculations, work, offer a budget and ask for an increase of 178 million justified, described, and you don't finance them with 65 million, the same figure as last year's case, in which in the year of several times, after persistent trials and various bills, sums were given. But is this power independent in this case where money is allocated to the Supreme Judicial Council to conduct its policy? We listened to the members of the Supreme Judicial Council, talked about court cards, talked about thousands of other things, and at the moment when they want the means to realize it, we tell them: no, no, no! We'll give you a few tens of millions less, because that's what we've decided and you think you've got it right. I will finish my speech with this: if, in the rest of the state budget, the alternative is us MPs from BSP, and all our proposals are an alternative to GERB's budget, then here is your judicial system and the Supreme Judicial Council. [[GERB lines.]] The sums we've given are theirs. Now, if you replicate me that they have withdrawn their proposals, I will answer you immediately: the proposal is motivated, the withdrawal is not motivated. The proposal is justified by accounts, the withdrawal is not justified in any other way, but with the reply we will deal with. I don't think that can satisfy us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u381	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? Mr. Kirilov, here's the first line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u382	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! Dear Dr. Milkov, I would just like to recall the following: always the Legal Commission with regard to the proposal of the Supreme Judicial Council has formed a general opinion. This year, for the first time, you are trying to divide the professional look and bring a political element into the debate on the budget of the judiciary, and you are succeeding as a matter of fact. It is not right for the magistrates to be politically opposed to them, they can read both the justification that is in the draft budget, so they can read the decisions of the Supreme Judicial Council. Again, their proposal has never been satisfied in the judiciary in such a huge volume, about 80% of their proposal has been accepted compared to 20% of last year. And I'm asking you: leave the court card out of this. The funding of key projects to develop the updated judicial reform strategy is secured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u383	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other lines? I won't. Here you go for the dot.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u384	Dear Madam Chairman, colleagues! Dear Mr. Kirilov, you're entitled to the doppelganger! For all of us again: Judgment of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Bulgaria The executive bodies of the Government (Ministry of Defence, Ministry of Finance) do not exercise competence in the process of drawing up, implementing and reporting the budget. We're in the process of drawing up! These bodies shall only include the budget of the judiciary as an integral part of the annual budget. That's our argument! People, to offer it, have thought, listened, and we have made their proposal into ours, nothing is politicized. This is a ruling of the Constitutional Court. Thanks. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u385	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any other statements? Mr. Popov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u386	Dear Madam President, honourable Members! First of all, I would like to draw attention to the lawyers in this Chamber, because all of you seem to be using the expression "court system." There is no such thing, dear colleagues! There is a system of the judiciary and it is written in our Constitution. It is an independent power, it is not a system to the Council of Ministers, to the executive or to the legislature, it is a separate power and therefore has its own budget. What are her characteristics? We should aim for these objectives of the judiciary system: transparency, efficiency, efficiency, balanced workload of the various courts, of the various areas, speed, of course, and especially accessibility. When you accepted the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code, looking at the ceiling in general terms, you set the fees in terms of administrative cases, you raised them several times, without having any real motivation for this thing, we told you that you would limit this particular accessibility. And now, in the estimates of next year's budget of court fees, two million less than the previous one. A hundred million is in the budget, and the previous one was 102. With two million more is what, honourable MPs from the government who accepted the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code means that it is with this effect that you have achieved these changes. You have limited access to the judiciary, to justice, which is the main function of the judiciary system after all. You've narrowed it down, and now you're covering it in the budget. That's what you're doing, and it's already shining here. By the way, that's what you did last year with Sofia Airport. We covered it up and said what you were about to do: well, it's not true, wait till we get there. Now we have come to this point that Sofia Airport is on concession. The same thing happened with the judiciary system, and with access to justice, two million less is the forecast for which you conclude what it means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u387	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. Firstly, we will vote on the proposal of MPs Krum Zarkov, Philip Popov, Yavor Bojankov and Pencho Milkov, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 46 against 59, abstention 33. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for art. 2 on the Commission report. Vote 138 MPs: 90 against 48 abstentions. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u388	The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 3rd to 9th and.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u389	Are there any statements about the members from 3rd to 9th? I won't. We vote Articles 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9 by importer. Vote 138 MPs: 92 against 45, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u390	Under art. 10 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: I'm sorry, In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 10 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (transfers) ": - in Row III. The number of.72 880.6 is replaced by.77 880.6. - on line one. The reference budget for the budget is the number "75 643,2" is replaced by "80 643,2." 2. In para. 2: (a) in row 2. The number is replaced by the number supplied in the field of public diplomacy and is replaced by the number supplied in the field of public diplomacy. b) in row "Everything's going to be replaced by "132 669,6' is replaced by "137 669,6'. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 10.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u391	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Are there any speeches? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u392	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, honourable colleagues! First of all, a couple of common tales about art. 10 and then for the concrete proposal that we have made, because we have practically muffled the debate after the vote on the general budgetary framework of art. 1 and all proposals for financial amendments will not find their impact. The only thing we could do is point out the problems in individual departments. The main one at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I think, is chronic underfinancing. And if we talked for two days about pensions, about their size and even Colonel Toshev mentioned some numbers and some increases within 100 "20%," despite these increases, we express doubt that in practice the quality of life has changed due to inflation due to an increase in the cost of life in Bulgaria, then I will give you a few very specific figures from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to dispel any doubts. Ten years ago, the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was 170 million, currently at 132 million. Without any doubt, this budget condemns the Ministry of Inability to carry out its main tasks, namely: planning, coordination and implementation of foreign policy, of a rather complete foreign policy. The realization of the Ministry's activities in terms of lack of financial and human resources is inevitably having an impact on the ability and capacity of the diplomatic service of the Republic of Bulgaria to provide efficiently formulated foreign policy, strategic and operational objectives in accordance with the increased requirements of both society and allies and our international partners. This budget framework of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not allow it to provide full-scale working conditions, including remuneration, to motivate young qualified personnel to work and remain in the office, as well as to ensure the technical, material and information provision of the Ministry, including maintenance and renovation of the building fund. Here I, as a member of the Committee on Foreign Policy, suppose a large part of you have had the opportunity to see the sad picture of diplomatic representation outside the territory of the country on which the roofs are being dropped, the buildings are being destroyed and so on. As for the very concrete proposal that we make in art. 10, it is for the creation of a fund for Bulgarians abroad to obey the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, before which organizers of Bulgarians abroad defend projects for partial or total funding related to the preservation of the ethnic nature of Bulgarians abroad. We believe that there is no need for further arguments on this proposal, as it is fully in line with Priority No 2 of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, namely a targeted policy in maintaining the Bulgarian language, culture and identity in traditional and new Bulgarian communities abroad. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u393	Thank you, Mr. Vitanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Is there any other statements under art. Ten? There are no speeches. We're going to vote. Firstly, I am voting on Mrs Cornelia Ninova's proposal and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 141 MPs: 47, against 74, abstention 20. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of Article to the vote. Ten by importer. They voted 137 MPs: for 89, against 48, there is no abstention. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u394	Under art. 11 The proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. It's okay. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 11 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row 1.1. The number of the number ssq. 995 922.3 is replaced by sq.1 094 314.0. - in row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "158 761.7'.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - in row 2.1. "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs' is replaced by "Acceptance of fixed assets and major repairs'; (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (Transfers) ': - in line III. The number of the budget relationships (Transfers) is replaced by the number of the budget relationships (Transfers) -1 370 211,0 is replaced by -1 523 966,7 is replaced by -1 523 966,7 is replaced by -- - on line one. The reference budget budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the financial year for the 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. The number "1 331 231,0" is replaced by "1 484 986,7" by the number "1 331 231,0" is replaced by "1 484 986,7"; b) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 11.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u395	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? Docent Tsonkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u396	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! I have taken the floor to justify our proposals for an increase in the budget of the Ministry of Defence because for many years, unfortunately, we see how security and defence are not a priority of the current government. Unfortunately, this model of management has been seen since 2009 when the Ministry of Defence budget was heavily underestimated and cut by 400 million. We have the understanding that people in defence need to be prepared professionally, trained, trained, provided with a decent wage, and that is why we propose an increase in the budget in the pen and staff costs, so that we can achieve an increase in remuneration by 15% and not 10%. We feel that this is not enough, too, unfortunately, when we talk about the wages of the servicemen. We also believe that the basic, basic remuneration, on the basis of which the wages of the servicemen are determined, should be linked to the minimum wage, but for the reason that at the moment remains, unfortunately, BGN 380, we believe that at least for the beginning it should become BGN 510. And catch up with the minimum wage. Of course, as I said, after cutting the budget as early as 2010 with 400 million, we lost. By calculating each year these 400 million, we have virtually lost several billion, with which we could have done the so desired modernization, which we see for another year is not happening. In this sense, we would like there to be a more serious increase in capital expenditure and maintenance, so that there may be sufficient means to support outdated equipment and to be able to repair this technique available to the Ministry of Defence at the moment. We are all aware that it is quite morally outdated and technologically backward, and modernization must be on the front line. Until this modernization occurs, however, we must have enough resources to be able to repair what we have and maintain it, respectively, to have sufficient means of training and to use this fighting technique in the exercises that are being conducted by the Bulgarian Army. If we look into it, we'll see that they're a very minimal number. Speaking of combat readiness, I wouldn't say she's at a very high level. In other words, with the proposals made by the Ministry of Defence for the budget for next 2019, we see that a major problem will not be solved, such as the shortage of personnel, the incompletion in the Bulgarian Army, which continues to deepen as a problem. At the same time, we also see another problem which continues to stand before the Ministry and with the government's proposals in this part will not be solved, i.e. the maintenance of the fighting equipment, of the armaments. This will inevitably deepen the process in the Bulgarian Army for destruction, to reduce combat readiness, combat capacity and, of course, the defense capabilities of the Bulgarian Army. I hope that this so desirable modernization will happen soon, more means of repair will be spent and they will remain in the Bulgarian military defence industry, because we have seen how the repair of the SW-25 fighters, unfortunately, goes to the Belarusian company. Today it's loose, by the way, money...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u397	Thank you, Professor Tsonkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u398	...one second. Money is allocated for repair for both MiG-29 and SW-25 and this money will go, unfortunately, outside Bulgaria. That's the way it is. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u399	Thank you. Questions? - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? General Popov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u400	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I understand the concerns of colleagues about the Bulgarian Army. I also understand their desire to increase the budget by 100 million for staff, by 50 million, as far as I understand, for capital expenditure, but not for current maintenance, by the way, and there are the exercises, there is the preparation, whatever. I think this budget is good. During the first reading I explained why it was good. Firstly, this budget is a balanced budget. Secondly, this budget has a substantial increase. This is the biggest budget we've had since there's a professional army fact! Total defence costs, i.e. investments in defence, are 1 billion. Eight hundred and thirty-nine million. That's pretty serious. If we compare it to the best budget we have to say in 2008 - 2009, this is an increase of about 300, 400 million more, this is a serious increase. Another, when I said: the budget. We have an increase in all areas: and for staff by 10%, and for a second year in a row; we have an increase in current maintenance by nearly 39%; we have an increase in capital expenditure by nearly 100%. This is a serious increase, and only for one year, and in fulfilling the government's defence increase and reaching a percentage of 1.58 and next year 1.61. We can't talk here about some non-systematicity and some reluctance. Just to remind you that in the platform with which you participated in the elections in 2017, you had stated an increase in the salary for staff by 10%. We already have a 20% increase. If we go back even a little further, the 2014 budget was 1 billion. 20 million. There was no change for the years to come, there was no change..................................................................................................... 20 million. Now "2018," you want 2 billion when in 2016 you had planned 1 billion. I'm going to ask my colleagues for a little more systematic. Of course it needs an increase and the increase will be there next year. Once the government fulfills its promises and since the defence budget will increase, this can only say one thing: it is good that defence is now a priority. It's a priority, and so it will be, for God's sake, from now on! Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u401	Thank you, my dear General. - What's the line? Docent Tsonkov, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u402	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Dear Mr. Popov, I'm taking a line because I disagree with what you said. You're talking about an increase in remuneration. You've increased them by 20%. Really, however, the increase is much less, unfortunately. Why now, in the last two years, are you talking about an increase in the wages of the servicemen? Where was this increase in 2010, 2011? By the way, in 2010, you cut the budget by 400 million. Let me remind you that in 2010, 1,400 officers left, thanks to the budget that the Ministry of Defence had, voted precisely by your ruling majority, and especially GERB. To remind you of something else, you are talking about investments in defence. Yeah, well, no. Modernization projects have been going on since 2015 and thanks to you last year the Air Force Project for acquiring a new aircraft has been suspended. [[Noise and lines.]] Shall I remind you of that? What do you use the money for? You put $400 million into the budget, and then you distribute it to other spendings. In practice, you are fictitiously using this money, putting it to the defence budget, saying: they are for an increase in defence spending.. to wash the eyes of NATO that we increase the percentage for defence spending to 2%, and you actually put it back into the central budget and use it for other payments. Is that how we invest in defense? Is this how you show that security and defence are your priority, using buffer money from the Ministry of Defense's budget?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u403	Mr. Tsonkov, your time is up. Second line? Dear Mr. Vitanov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u404	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Minister, colleagues! I also want to take some of the numbers that have been exported because it seems to me that they have been interpreted in a way suited to the management, which is what you said -- 1.58% of gross domestic product. I'm afraid that in the last three years, funds have been put at stake for modernization, in the context of the three projects that are running, but they are not being used simply because we are not able to conclude a contract. Since 2018, Minister of Defence Mr. Karakachanov confirmed that we will not be ready to enter into a contract. In other words, some of these funds are not being used. In fact, last year, the percentage of gross domestic product for defence is only 1.26 million. You're right, Mr. General, there's 300 million more, but they're included in the funds for modernization expenses. I repeat: they include them, only we do not get to them simply because we do not conclude a contract in due time. With regard to pay, yes, you are right! Gross wages on average of the servicemen increased by 10%, only this did not result in the necessary effect. We have confirmation of this from the factors at the Department of Defense. We believe that these funds were insufficient. And with the new 10%, we still won't be able to restore the prestige of the profession of soldier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u405	Thank you, dear Mr. Vitanov. Another line? I can't see. Dear General Popov, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u406	Dear Mr. Tsonkov, I understand part of the political talk. You're right. Indeed, when the crisis began, the budget of the Ministry of Defence was reduced. This policy was not changed when you worked at the Ministry of Defence in 2013. - Why? Then why didn't you change it? A billion and twenty million! This was planned for both 2015 and 2016. Why didn't you change it? Why have you suddenly changed it as an attitude towards the army? Why didn't you change your attitude towards the army in 2016 when we voted on modernization projects? Why did you object? Why now? What changed in your thinking? What changed your thinking in March 2017, when you wanted a 10% increase in wages? We are now 2018. I appreciate your evolution. Wonderful! When you talk about delaying projects... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] But you were against the projects. Why were you against the projects? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I'm talking because you asked me. When we talk about slowing down projects, let's go back to the reasons. There was a committee that worked here, and a National Assembly that voted, with a large majority. [[Applause from GERB.]] That's why the projects are slowing down. If the project were well-structured and well-ordered, it would be implemented. Let's not transfer the problem from the healthy to the sick head. I understand your concern for the army, I respect all this, but in the end we must be a little objective and appreciate the government's efforts, including the decision of the Council of Ministers today to grant additional funds to the Bulgarian Army. The problem with personnel, Mr. Vitanov. The problem is obvious. There is a desire for a solution to the problem - a 20% increase in wages and other measures that you know and which we have tabled for amendment to the Defence and Armed Forces Act, as we have divided the payments for title and position. There are many other measures to be taken. I sincerely hope that when it comes to officer staff, this increase will feel like years from now. You can't train a student to become a lieutenant colonel in a year. He has to complete a university for five years and then a long time to grow up in office. It's a serious problem. Let's work together! Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u407	Thank you, my dear General. Any other speeches? Mr. Atanasov and Associate Professor Mihov. Mr. Atanasov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u408	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! After speaking of a general, I feel a slight inconvenience, as I am a humble captain of the Bulgarian Army in reserve. [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] It's a good thing you know that. This shows that you are interested in colleagues in parliament. There's nothing wrong with that. I'll tell you one thing: in 30 years the Bulgarian army has been turned into a protection company. This Bulgarian army was turned into a... protection during the management of several parties, which are currently represented in the Bulgarian Parliament. From 2011 until now the money for the Bulgarian army is constantly growing. It is a shame that for the first time we have such a large budget for armaments in the Bulgarian Army and, colleagues, you, without stating which political forces, will do it on purpose, once again you say: it is not enough. You can't change things with a magic wand. The budget of gross domestic product is now 1,58%. By 2021, the estimates are to finally reach the European frameworks of 2% of gross domestic product so that our army can guarantee our national security, as recorded in art. 61 of the Bulgarian Constitution. I, by the way, am surprised that you are attacking exactly this part, which concerns the renovation of the Bulgarian army. I'm really surprised. For what, colleagues, are you attacking her? That you didn't lift a finger for her 25 years ago? That you cut 2/3 of the Bulgarian officership and even a bouquet of flowers to a sender did not give them. That's what I am myself. Is that why, colleagues? Colleagues, particularly in this regard to the Bulgarian Army, I strongly disagree with you to attack this cost feather in the Bulgarian budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u409	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. A line? You have the floor for a line, dear Mr. Ermenkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u410	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! I make the line just to remind you that the first 40%, which reduced the budget of the army, did not happen before 2009, but after 2009. From there the army went down. Not to mention political forces again, because we're talking army and national security. Let us not shift from the sick head to the healthy one, but pay attention after 2009 how 40%, which were intended for modernization and development of the Bulgarian army, were heavily redirected, not to say stolen by the army. The other thing I want to say is that when we are talking about more money right now, we are not saying that the budget is the worst budget we have. We want to say that the budget can be better because whatever modernization of the army you do, I have told you every time it comes to the budget of the Ministry of Defence: and the most sophisticated technique without motivated personnel is a pile of iron. We offer it because ultimately not only 20% salary and any other measures would help to solve the problem of personnel of the Bulgarian Army. We're talking status here. We're talking about a situation in society here. We're talking about a confession here. The least I want to hear about is that we are trying to sabotage the Bulgarian army. On the contrary, we are trying to make things even better for the serviceman, for the officer, for the sergeant, so that they can really do their high-level duty with pride and honor. To serve in the Bulgarian Army to be something that is not only a profession but also an internal belief. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u411	Thank you, Mr. Ermenkov. Another line? I can't see. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Atanasov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u412	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House. Dear Mr. Armenkov, who... [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Ermenkov. I'm gonna have to buy you a shirt. [[Laughter]] With my great respect to you, allow me to disagree. Why don't you say that in 2010, all NATO countries reduced their budgets for the army and dropped quite a bit of these notorious 2%. I'll explain why. You know very well. Since 2008, a monstrous global economic crisis has begun. You're an economist, and you know it. This global economic crisis has taken the whole world. Such a crisis from 1929 to 1933 there was no such crisis. It's only natural for us to cut our budget for the army. See the 2011 estimates, Mr. Ermenkov from 2011 until now the budget for the Bulgarian army is constantly increasing every year, and so should it be, colleagues. That's how it's supposed to be! You see, I deliberately do not report parties, because here we must be absolutely united. Look at the armies our neighbors have. Should I list them here, but it's a state secret?! Should I state what kind of army Greece, Turkey, Serbia, even Romania have? So 2010 is not the main indicator. Yeah, you'd say, "Dyankov, I'm up 40%." All over the world, they cut off the military spending. All over the world! In this respect, you cannot compare 2010. It is precisely the height of the global economic crisis, but since 2011, we are now 2018. These are seven years, this budget is constantly growing for the Bulgarian army. My big dream is that our army will not be the protection it has been turned into in the last 25 years and finally fulfill its constitutional obligations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u413	Thank you, dear Mr. Atanasov. A statement by Professor Mihov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u414	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll start with a quote from Mr. Radev, who will speak after me. He very well said something very short, if I am not mistaken, it was at the last meeting of the Defence Committee that without being an initial priority in the programme of the government of the United Patriarchs and GERB, defence became a priority in our governance. I do not know whether this is a merit or a necessity of this government, and in this I want to be objective, but I think that every responsible statesman in Bulgaria should realize that Bulgaria should really build its defence. The illusions of collective defense as a panacea, I think, are long gone by now. And I cannot fail to mention with satisfaction, with dignity and honour even that the government and the leadership of the Ministry of Defence, I think my colleagues from Volja will agree with this, are taking intensive care in the last year and a half to improve the country's defence capabilities. I'm not going into the gross domestic product specifics, wage increases, investment in the military education system last year to repair our existing technique. I would just like to remind you that the Land Troops Commander said something very important about the Land Troops celebration, which passed just a few days ago, that one hundred percent of the planned exercises of the Land Troops have been completed and carried out successfully this year. Hundred percent of the drills planned! I know that BSP colleagues who are professionally connected to the army know what this means and how many years this has not happened, which means that our soldiers train, they can shoot, they can strike. A president of a nearby country boasts that they have military capabilities greater than ours and almost as Romanian. However, let us remind this President that yesterday was the day of the Bulgarian army's victories, which are associated with precisely one victory at Pirot. The army's rating in the last year and a half is growing and it is among the most respected institutions because the people see in their army that it helps in disasters, captures dangerous criminals, for which you raised a question as to why the special forces were sent and if there are legal grounds to catch murderers, protect our border and train and prepare for the protection of our Fatherland. I think this budget is the best possible in the real world. It is good because it does not affect those costs that can be directed in the social sphere, and provides one not high enough, but still a high rate of increase in the army's defense capabilities. I cannot agree with what was said in Veliko Tarnovo Monday that the army is melting. The army is not resurrected. And from the day after tomorrow, on December 5th, when the students of the National Military University will be up there, you will see evidence of that. That's why I don't accept opposition arguments. Thank you. [[Private applause from GERB and OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u415	Thank you, dear Associate Professor Mihov. - What's the line? I won't. You have the floor, Mr. Radev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u416	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of the National Assembly, Dear Minister! I took the floor to say some things that were missed. Firstly, to thank my colleague Ermenkov for saying good words and admitting the budget that he is good, but they want to become even better. We all want him to get better. That sounded like the other coworkers. I wished, and in the Commission I said it, everyone should say: yes, good for GERB, they are making possible and the budget is growing, as it has been said since 2011. Of course the budget can get better, but when you criticize a budget, then I asked you to say the good things first, then if you find something, criticize. And I've got numbers here. Excuse me, but when we talk that during the reign of the BSP, the Triple Coalition, remember, the budget for the army was over 2.5% of gross domestic product. That was a lot of money. And then there was a recession. Let us not forget these trials. I'll tell you the numbers: it was 2.24% of gross domestic product, falling to 1.86% immediately after your management. You in your budget bring it down. Maybe it's right, then there was a recession. I am talking about 2008 - 2009. In 2013 - 2014 you also bring it down: 1,38% - 1.28%. Say, yes, we didn't succeed then, but you do. There was no recession the second time, was there? Besides, let's not forget what you did with that big money then, with the big amount? We bought for the army transport vehicles. Well, now GERB doesn't do that. We're talking about combat planes, combat equipment, sailors, and land troops. These are all good trials and good military development. You're missing these things. I thought you'd at least say something like that. I'll never forget, I was Deputy Minister, we paid that 576 million account. For three and a half years, we paid off what was ordered before that. Now the budget is 1.58% of gross domestic product. The goal is, of course, to go about 2%. And we have comments on him. We're increasing capital expenditure. Now I will tell you my remark at the end, because we also have to our own people who work there, remarks to the budget. For example, I would very much like all of these funds -- 200 million -- perhaps more -- which we are giving now -- to go for the Euro-Atlantic orientation, for what we need for NATO. And here, if we look a little bit wider, yes, we give some money for the army, they go for people, of course, and for capital expenditures, you heard that almost a hundred percent is increasing over 100 million. It's good to always be careful and keep this light on, because there's not that much money, even if it's 2%. I'm talking in absolute numbers because planes and everything else is bought in absolute numbers, not in percentages of gross domestic product. And we need every penny, every lev, to be careful what direction we spend it. That, for example, is my remark to this budget. But it's balanced, I'll end up with this, it's consistent with the international situation. Let us think about what are the major problems facing societies in Europe at the moment. Shouldn't we give it somewhere else for the army? What security sector? And that's what we have in the budget, that's where this balance is made. That's what I see. Because terrorism, migration, these processes also take away a lot of money, including Europe helping us. This is in the budget and I also congratulate the Ministry of Finance, who look at the numbers and pay attention to capital expenditure, how much for people, for alimony and so on, and the government that has seen these balances and very well viewed the budget. So let's be balanced. I do not expect any very sharp speeches for which I thank you, but acknowledge us what we are doing. For years GERB, other than defence legislation and security sector, gives a permanent means of fighting means what we will need eventually. That's what I'm graduating with. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u417	Thank you, Mr. Radev. - What's the line? I won't. Let's move on to the vote. First, I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 136 MPs: 42, against 72, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of the importer under Article to the vote. 11, supported by the Commission. Vote 138 MPs: 82, against 46, abstention 10. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u418	Under art. 12 has a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "V." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 12 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. - on line one. The number of the current expenditures is 1 499 843.2 and is replaced by 1 544 843.2 and is replaced by 1 544 843.2; - in row 1.1. The number of the number of the Member States shall be replaced by the number of the Member States which are not members of the European Union and shall be replaced by the - in row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "44 947,0'; - in row 2.1. "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs' is replaced by "44 947,0 "; (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (transfers) ": - in line III. "Budget relationships (transfers) " (the - on line one. The number of the budget budget is 1 401 432.2 and is replaced by 1 476 432,2. 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. "Policy in the field of crime countering and public order protection', the number b) of row "Everything's going to be replaced by "1 514 790,2' is replaced by "1 589 790,2' is replaced by "1 589 790,2'. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 12 the following changes are made: 3.1 In para. 1 Section II Costs and Section III Budgetary Relations (transfers) shall be made as follows: - in para. 1 Section II is replaced by the number. "1 514 790,2" is replaced by the number "1 524 790,2" is replaced by the number "1 524 790,2" is replaced by the number "1 524 790,2" is replaced by the number "1 524 790,2" - in para. 1 Section II row 1. the number - in para. 1 Section II row 2 is replaced by the number..14 947,0... 21 - in para. Section III of Section III, the number?1 339 790,2? is replaced by the number? 1 349 790,2? - in para. 1 Section III row 1. the number s. 1 401 432,2s. is replaced by the number s. 1 411 432,2s. 3.2 In para. 2 the following changes are made: - In row 1, the number - In line with the number. "1 514 790.2" is replaced by the number "1 524 790.2." 3.3 A new para shall be created. 3 containing the following content: The amount of EUR 10 000 shall be added to the amount of EUR 10 000. lv. be granted for 24-hour control of the sections with the greatest concentration of road accidents. These include the use of patrol cars and specialized equipment, including surveillance. The funds cannot be used for other purposes. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 12.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u419	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u420	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, you are still taking over an unreformed ministry, as we of the Movement for Rights and Freedoms and Bulgarian citizens have serious expectations for you. We hope this budget is agreed with you because it is through the budget of the Ministry of Interior that you will realise your expectations and policies in it. We of the DPS make a change in the State Budget Act related to art. 12, namely: we increase the capital share by 10 million in the budget of the Ministry of Interior. Your proposal is, without changing the framework in the budget itself, to spend these funds on prevention and safety of road traffic, on sections with the greatest concentration of road accidents. In Bulgaria, we believe that these sections are about 45.I am referring to the sections of Byala Ruse, Plovdiv, Asenovgrad. These are places where a lot of tragic accidents happen with a fatal outcome. Our proposal is to purchase patrol cars, specialized equipment including surveillance and control. It is also necessary to increase the state of employees to the respective police stations and thus prevent or at least reduce traffic accidents. I believe that colleagues in this House will support this proposal from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u421	Thank you, dear Mr. Ahmedov. - What's the line? I can't see. Mr. Ivanov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u422	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! The order of the Ministry of Interior, namely art. 12 of the State Budget Act. In the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria, there are three proposals, which, for the most part, not to say 100%, are dictated precisely by the needs we observe over the years and are essential, especially for the employees of the Ministry. I am glad that Minister Mladenov is here because I am convinced that for every single word that I will share with you here, he will support me because you have brought out, honourable governors, this minister from among the professional part of the Ministry of Interior and turned him into a political person, but I suppose he knows in detail the need and need of what should come from the Ministry of Interior. We are alarmed to see that this year is inexplicable why you are proposing for 2019. And we didn't hear any arguments, a reduction in capital expenditure. Explain to us why. No one understood why the Ministry of Interior reduced capital expenditure. We propose to increase by 30 million. You know what conditions the Ministry of the Interior's employees are working under. You know that in some of the police districts they sit in broken rooms, without heating, working in extremely difficult conditions. We have proposed that the acquisition of fixed assets as a major renovation increase by 30 million. You know, they work two people with one computer, three people with one printer, they bring home paper, they carry typewriters. At the same time, we ask the employees of the Ministry of Interior to be effective in their work, to achieve results that will improve the quality of the security of Bulgarian citizens. I will quote you a 2017 survey, which Eurostat published a few days ago, from which it is seen that Bulgaria ranks first in crime, violence and vandalism. It's a shameful ranking, fellow Members. That's a shame. Because the employees of the Ministry of Interior are demotivated. Maybe you'll come out here and say, "Yeah, but we're giving them a raise this year." You give them, but what do you give to an unreformed sector? Before Mr. Marinov, we've seen all kinds of experiments, all kinds of reforms, including you've invited a private company to say what's going on at the Ministry of Interior, who should take and not take a salary, who should work and not work. After all, the results are clear and it does not say Bulgarian agency, says it, in the first place, Eurostat. According to this survey 23.6% of Bulgarian citizens were subject to crime. What's this about? It means that every day we are attacked by all kinds of crime. What's going on with the phone scams? What happens to domestic crime and so on? This is the only thing that can happen if the ministry's work capacity is improved. We know that the main problems are caused by several things: first by the theoretical and legal preparation of employees. In this direction, we see no order and opportunity to raise funds for the material base. We have heard you say that some funds have been drawn from European projects, certain districts have been renovated, fire department bought, yes, but these are units. Not to mention the quality of the delivered goods that we have also heard about by representatives of the Ministry of Interior to complain about the reliability of some of the delivered cars. It is very important, and I am convinced that there is hardly anyone here who will contradict me that these funds are necessary to enter the Ministry of Interior, especially to have a request that there will really be a reform, so that the object of investment in funds is for those employees who are with the citizens, for those employees who actually pay attention. Otherwise, we will always be leading in this ranking first place in crime, violence and vandalism. Convince us that you are struggling, gentlemen ruling, to step out of the shameful ranking by supporting our proposals. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u423	Thank you, dear Mr. Ivanov. - What's the line? I won't. Statements? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 124 MPs: 49, against 53, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. 140 MPs voted: 16 against 62, abstention 62. The offer is not accepted. I shall put the text of the importer under Article to the vote. 12, supported by the Commission. They voted 143 MPs: for 83, against 60, abstentions are not. The motion is accepted. Negative vote, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u424	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I regret that the budget of the Ministry of Interior went without debate, including the good proposals made by our parliamentary group. I regret that the Minister, who knows very well all the problems that are in the Ministry of Interior, did not take into account the improvement of the existence of the ordinary minister, because to a large extent the money that we will increase in the Ministry of Interior will go to the huge, bloated, clumsy administration here in Sofia, and will not reach the regular employee of the Ministry of Interior, who will continue with the problems of clothing, with the working conditions, with the payment of overtime and all those problems that have been unsolved for over 10 years since GERB managed the Ministry of Interior. They are therefore voting in denial of the proposed budget.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u425	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u426	The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 13.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u427	Statements? I can't see. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 13, which the Commission supports. They voted 123 MPs: for 73, against 47, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u428	Under art. 14 there is a proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "V." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 14 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 55000. - on line one. "Current costs' the number,1 291 103.9 " is replaced by,1 481 493,9 "; - in row 1.3. Ongoing transfers, benefits and benefits to households. The number,1 155 928.0 " is replaced by,1 345,928.0 "; (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (transfers) ": - in line III. "Budget relationships (transfers) " (transmitters) " (the number...1 267 - on line one. The reference budget budget for the budget shall be EUR 1 260.2209 is replaced by EUR 1 445 568.5, - in row 2. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. - in row 2.1. the number of transfers received is replaced by 7 525,4 and 7 150,0 is replaced by 7 525,4 is replaced by the number of transfers received; - in row 2.1.1. The number "7 150.0" is replaced by "7 525,4" by the State Social Security. 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. The number of the employment policy is.106 473,1.. is replaced by..186 473,1. b) in row 5. The number of the social inclusion policy (s) shall be replaced by the number (s) in the field of social inclusion (s) in the field of social inclusion (s) in the field of social inclusion (s). (c) of row 6. "Life level policy, income and demographic development' is replaced by "14 870.3'; d) of The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 14.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u429	Statements? Mrs. Stoyanova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u430	Thank you, Madam President. I have a proposal for a change in art. 14, namely, in the budget part of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, which concerns 71 million. Five hundred thousand. The amount to be found in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy in the area of people with disabilities. This amount is currently recorded in the central budget in art. 1, we voted it, it's there, but it's in the central budget, and it should be in the Ministry's budget. When the budget of the Social Ministry was made, there were still no texts under the Law on Persons with Disabilities or under the Law on Personal Assistants, which is why it was not clear what mechanism would finance these personal assistants, whether through delegated budgets or through the Agency for Social Assistance. For this reason, the money was planned in the central budget. The Law is now adopted at second reading in the Committee on Social Policy, the... is clear. there is no dispute. it will be implemented by the Agency for Social Assistance, which is why this money must be reflected precisely in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. That's why I'm proposing in art. 14, para. 1, item II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 75000. 1. "Current transfers, benefits and benefits to households", item III. "Budget relationships (transfers) - (+/-) " and so on. 1. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. Five hundred thousand. lv. In para. 2, in the table, c. 4. In the area of people with disabilities and in order, the amounts also increased by 71 million. Five hundred thousand. lv. In para. 3 in the table, c. 1. This appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the European Regional Development Fund (ERDF), the European Social Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development and the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development (EAFRD), the Five hundred thousand. lv. Once again, I would like to say that this is not a matter of art. 1 as these amounts are provided for in art. 1. This is about displacements inside. In this situation the policy in the area of people with disabilities will now have 436 million under the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. 997.6 thousand. lv. in the case of planned 2018 The Commission therefore concludes that the aid is compatible with the internal market within Seventy-three, nine thousand. BGN, namely this is 150 million more, as announced and as they will be financed. In this direction, the general budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy is now up to 1 billion. Three hundred and Ninety-nine, ninety-nine thousand. lv. anything for social assistance. I would like to say that it is important that we make this amendment, because it will provide the way in which funding and budget implementation will be carried out. Therefore, Madam President, I would ask you to put it to the vote and, accordingly, in the final version. Here's my offer. [[Passing]] , as it should appear in art. 14, if the National Assembly accepts it, the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u431	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. - What's the line? Here you go, Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u432	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, the amendment you say is undoubtedly necessary. However, there are a few things I do not understand that I would like to ask. First of all, in the central budget, this thing is written down in some column, I didn't know exactly which one, that is, where the money is taken from. Usually in one budget the money to go somewhere else has to be taken from somewhere. My first question is: specifically where do you get the money, where are it intended and for what purpose? That's one. My second question. They, entering the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, should enter for some purpose. The presumption with which this money is made is that they will enter under the Personal Aid Act, but this means that there are different activities here.. There are personal assistant, home assistant, social assistant and so on. So by entering with the change that you are proposing, what is the purpose of this money, what will it go on for, and what is the mechanism by which it will be guaranteed at all? Do we have the guarantee that they will go under the Personal Aid Act, or will they go somewhere in the Ministry, but where the Minister decides, and when will we find out where?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u433	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Second line? Here you go, Mr. Nedyalkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u434	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of ministers, honourable Members! I think this is a very significant change in the budget of the Republic of Bulgaria, which we are doing now. Yesterday, at the meeting of the Committee on Labour, Social and Demographic Policy, it was pointed out that these 71.5 million are out there, standing and will be provided. They were even written in the Law the way Mr. Kutev said. I therefore ask the President of the National Assembly, if possible, to multiply and to make this proposal so that the Members of the National Assembly can get acquainted with it. Why am I saying this? I also noticed the lack of that 71.5 million, scheduled in the Social Ministry budget. From the proposal I've just heard, I didn't really understand what order they're going to and what they're going to be used for. Let this proposal be given to us in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u435	Thank you, Mr. Nedyalkov. Is there gonna be a third line? I won't. Here you go, Mrs. Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u436	Thank you. Dear Mr. Kutev, the 71 million I have just proposed to you are in art. 1, II "Costs', p. 1. Current expenditures and expenditures, p.o.b. 1.4. Ongoing transfers, benefits and benefits to households 283,7 573,1. That's where the money is. As you know, art. 1 summarizes the budget at all of the ministries and it is normal there to be money, so they are not taken from anywhere. It's just that from the general cup they put in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and I definitely, explicitly read it, in para. 2, p. 4. In the area of people with disabilities, where, I repeat, the amount becomes 436 million. 997.6 thousand. lv. for people with disabilities. It's policy. There aren't enough ribbons on that money for assistants, so much for other support. In the amount of the general budget and in the budget of policies, the Minister of Labour and Social Policy should finance those policies that we, through other laws, have imposed on him to implement. In the Personal Aid Act there will be no amounts, and that is correct, because he must say how this personal assistance is determined, the way it is determined, to whom it is determined, and there is no money to be concerned. The money is contained in the budget, respectively through the State Budget Act and the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy will be financed as much as necessary There could be more. As many as they are. As the legislator decided and as he worked out the texts under the Personal Aid Act, so will money. We can't put ribbons on every amount and on every subsummary and say: this is for the personal assistant, this is for the other social assistance I repeat, the amount there is not small at all, 437 million. This is the round sum. As for what it will look like, Madam President, you can multiply art. 14, as he would look if the National Assembly accepted this proposal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u437	Please, the Quaestors, multiply it quickly. Dr. Ademov, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u438	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Colleagues, I call on you to support this proposal because in the course of the budgetary procedure, there is no way for the Ministry of Finance to know how the procedure for providing personal assistance will go. If the procedure was signed to pass by standards, it means as social services to pass through the budgets of municipalities. In other words, the transfer should not have been to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, but should have been to the budget of municipalities. Since the Minister of Finance could not know when proposing the Bill, he had left them in the general budget, in the central budget, so that after that, when it became clear this procedure, the money would go to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy to finance policies for people with disabilities. The rest explained it earlier Mrs. Menda Stoyanova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u439	Thank you, Dr. Ademov. Are you going to make a line, Mrs. Stoyanova? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u440	Dr. Ademov, thank you for your support. I just want to let you know that this money is now in art. 1, namely, in the Feather "Transfers" and their purpose was just as you said... or to transfer to the municipalities if the Law says so, or to transfer to the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy if the Law says otherwise. But since, looking at the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, people with disabilities, mothers do not see the 150 million, they see less by 71.5 million, they create mistrust, fed by other people who are trying to speculate with them and with their grief, that someone is trying not to give money to finance this law. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u441	Which one?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u442	Therefore, I am now making this proposal to make it clear to everyone here in the National Assembly, the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, to the mothers and to the people who advise mothers that these 150 million, which were promised by the Prime Minister, are a fact and everyone can see them in the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. That's the point of my proposal. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u443	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Will there be a hole, Dr. Ademov? No. Mr. Kutev, come in for a statement, then Mr. Gokov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u444	I understand what Mrs. Menda Stoyanova means. I'll start by calling to the next speakers: when you talk about some who speculate or do anything, tell them their names! It's okay. Let's know who they are. Because protecting the interests of certain people and speculation with anyone are serious differences. Let anyone who speaks from here take responsibility for the words he has said so that we don't just toss into space. What do I think is the problem with that? First of all, this amendment, which Mrs. Stoyanova submitted, 70 million, in principle, I accept it. To be honest, that doesn't mean I'm voting for art. 14 for one very simple reason. If this is really true what it says, I understand that 150 million will still be given. We assume that's true. I step on her words and say, yes, she's told the truth, it's true, there's going to be 150 million. The problem is, what will the 150 million be given for? Because these people don't care what they're being given for. They fought for concrete things, had specific demands from the beginning and these specific requests were dressed in specific bills. So whether these 70 million, which from the central budget will go into the budget of the Ministry of Labour again, hopefully everything will be the same, and they will somehow not end up at the expense of other transfers to the local budgets in the social sphere, God forbid, if that is the case, it does not mean that we can help them in the way they are doing right now that they will go where they want them. First of all, nothing prevented this money from being put at stake not now, but to be put at stake in the drafting of the budget. The argument not to be laid down in the drafting of the budget, by the way, is that there is no law adopted, at least I have heard such an argument. There is no law now! So if there was no reason to put them into the Law then why are we putting them into the Law now? It's the same reason. Nothing prevented the same money from being put into the budget in the order in which the budget was made. I'm not the one speculating! Someone else tried to make sure that money wasn't in the budget, and then under pressure, he decided he was gonna put it in. Because otherwise, why now, and a month ago, could not? What prevented them from being reflected in the budget itself? However, I say again that my big problem is not that. Again, I stress that I believe Mrs. Menda Stoyanova and I believe that 150 million is an additional 150 million that will enter the system. The important thing is whether they will come in for what they want it to be, namely, in this case, the Personal Aid Act, bearing in mind that these personal assistants under the Personal Aid Act will repeatedly exceed the amount of the aid they are talking about. Even if the 70 million went only for the Personal Aid Act, in fact, all those spinners that were doing them during that time, the Ministry was trying to do work groups, and pressing the numbers and numbers down, that's how they were doing them because they wouldn't get enough money! The very fact that this 70 million is coming in is not a solution at all! What if some of these 70 million go to other programs that are not related to the Personal Aid Act? That means this law won't work. By the way, something that I have told you a few months ago,.. with the pace we are working with, we are getting away from the budgetary procedure with the adoption of the laws, and the result will be that the laws we are adopting will, in fact, end up not being provided financially, or as it will turn out here, are quite partially insured. How will the minister handle this? I don't know what he's doing. Because it will flow to it at the time of the adoption of the Law... any minister, even if it is not this one, another government and so on, to the Ministry will flow the requests for personal assistance. And as these demands flow, they must somehow accept them or not accept them! And the law is made so that they can't afford that filtration. Finally, the result will indeed be that it will not be about 70 million, but about 700, God forbid! That's probably the result. And that's not all in the budget! That's why I'm telling you that I wouldn't support this kind of article, not because I don't trust Mrs. Stoyanova. On the contrary, very much for the third time, for the fourth time in this speech I stress: I very much hope that what you have told us is true! The point is, that's not enough.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u445	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Mrs. Stoyanova, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u446	Mr. Kutev, when I said someone was speculating, I didn't mean you at all. I'm surprised you recognized each other. [[Applause from GERB.]] I'm sure I don't know why, but you tried in that statement to say that this money wouldn't go as it should. No! They will go to the policy for people with disabilities because they can't go anywhere else where BGN 437 million is provided! Maybe it's not 71 million for personal assistants. They can go 61, they can go 101 million, because no one on today's date can say how much. Assessments, needs will be made, these needs will be calculated, they will be valued and it will eventually become clear what money we are talking about. At this point, no one can say it. And that's why these 437 million in disability policy ensure that the law is implemented. And when there is a law passed, he will be executed by the Minister, he has nowhere to go. And if the Minister's budget of over 1 billion. 300 million. He hasn't had enough, there are other ways of funding. But I am convinced that within this 1 billion. 365 million, which we are talking about in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, will have as much money as it takes to implement the Law, which, God forbid, next week the National Assembly will adopt.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u447	Thank you, Mrs. Stoyanova. Second line, Dr. Ademov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u448	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Kutev! The financing of assistant support by September 2019 will continue in the way this year has been implemented. Nothing different. In the Personal Aid Act, you know perfectly well that it is said that personal assistance has started, and not for everyone, but only in 2019 for those with the most severe disabilities, which means that not all who have the need in 2019 will receive the so-called personal assistance. This means that once again, you know very well that in the Law are described the categories of people with disabilities who are entitled to personal assistance, and the hours are scheduled, and the time rate is also scheduled, so that there is no problem these 14 400, as it is estimated by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, to receive personal assistance according to the direction and according to the hours that are indicated after passing the assessment of their needs. The law has been signed in such a way that there is clarity, because that is the most important thing. If we set a financial framework, as some of the members of the working group insisted during the discussion of the Second Reading Project, if we sign the specific framework we did, however, it turned out that this leads to concern, leads to doubts that there is transparency in these 150 million, leads to doubt that there will be no funding. That is why this approach has been taken. I propose that we support it, moreover, that we are about to adopt the Personal Aid Act and the Law on Persons with Disabilities probably next week.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u449	Thank you, dear Dr. Ademov. Third line? I can't see. Mr. Kutev, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u450	Dear Mrs. Stoyanova, I'm going to start by saying that I haven't recognized myself anywhere. It's just too much speculation has been gathering lately and I've called on you to tell me where you see doubts. You still didn't say who are the people you see in doubt! You could have dispelled all the doubts by saying who. No, I don't recognize myself in this! On the contrary, I know exactly what I have done in the last year and a half, and I know that if every opposition worked this way, the state would be better for itself, a personal assessment, however immodest. I hope that future oppositions can do what we were able to do during that time! About the Law and how it's financed. Okay. I can, Mr. Ademov, accept the logic that this law will be financed under these restrictions, and I hope so. After all, it is important to me that we all went through this time once we managed, at the very least, to move a very complex mechanism. I suppose we are all aware that with both the Law and the people with disabilities and the personal assistance that we are about to accept, we are only solving 10% of the problems that stand. And that is why I am particularly jealous of this conversation, because, given that we are only solving 10. 15% of things and if we do not solve them as we should, that is, we should not just define a 150 million, but they should go in the appropriate way, so as to solve the problems... even more so that these people very clearly know what they want, they are very much defined, and that is why the process has come to this point. We will not achieve results. I already told that to the Social Committee. The likelihood that there are protests in just a few days, after a few months the front is again very big for nothing else, but because we have solved a very small percentage of the problem. At the same time, we've been doing this for a month and a half. Everyone heard some millions pouring, and when they got their units, they saw that from 250 leva. He's up to BGN 280. help a month, God forbid, this is the result, but it is coming, I want to tell you that there will be no satisfaction from the situation. And the protests will recover again. I therefore insist on the proper implementation of these commitments, because otherwise we strengthen the process. [[Reply: "Search! "]] And lastly...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u451	There's three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u452	I'm done, yeah.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u453	You have time, you have time!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u454	My request is that the Minister make the commitment. I am fully aware that Minister Petkov did a great deal of work during this time, but after all, how will the funds be spent in this special case, I think is something we should hear about and the commitment of Minister Petkov. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u455	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Mr. Gokov for a statement, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u456	Dear Madam President, honourable Ministers, honourable Members of the House! I'll start with the last thing Anton Kutev did on Mrs. Stoyanova's proposal. Of course, we will support this proposal with the slight doubt, which is my personal doubt, whether this transfer should be to the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy or to the budget of municipalities. However, in the interest of the peace of those people who are waiting for this transfer, perhaps it is better here and to see it, because they are talking and negotiating with the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. The next thing I want to say on the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, because this article. 14 sets the budget of precisely this ministry, staff costs 261 thousand, here appears to be a 10% increase in the salaries of workers in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I am obliged to tell you that in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy and its departments and secondary budget consumers are with the lowest salaries from all state administrations. If I'm wrong, let the Minister fix me! And I think that there should be at least a little more than 10% increase in order to catch up with other administrations, because this will increase wage inequalities in the state administrations themselves. I know, you're going to tell me about the principle of not being allocated to a calpat and so on, and according to the merit of the people, but generally in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, working people take less wages from the other state administration. It is imperative, in our view, that the parliamentary group of the BSP for Bulgaria is to increase the budget of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy by 190 million. With this 190 million we will finance the alternative policies that we propose to be implemented through the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. I will mention them one by one, because they are further in our proposals, but here they should be financed, and let us say where they will be financed, so I will mention them. First of all, I will point to an extension of the aid of 250 BGN. at the beginning of the school year except for the first grade and for students from the low income families of the second, third and fourth grade, and we believe that this additional aid will cover a total of 120 000 children more. We're talking about a sum of 30 million. lv. Further, following the relevant amendments and proposals for amendments to the Family Aids Act for children, of course. Next, an increase of perhaps the most important increase in funds under the National Employment Action Plan. The National Action Plan is provided for around 100 million. lv. I'm looking for the number, I can't see it right now, so 106 million. 473 thousand. lv. We believe that these funds should be increased by 80 million. lv. more, at the very least, because as the minimum wage increases, the number of people who can be included in employment programmes and measures is reduced. It must be unnecessary to say, but for people who are not familiar with employment policies and with the National Employment Action Plan, I will only say that there are those programmes that are for internship, apprentice and subsidised employment of young people, programmes for providing unemployed persons over the age of 55 and so on. Last but not least, employment and training of disabled people. So that's 80 million. lv. There's not a lot of them. Next, an increase in the one-time aid of mothers students from 2880 BGN. At £6,400. and one thing that is new that we propose is to give each born second or third child to parents provided 24 months before and at the time of birth of the child, the ten times the minimum wage for each child for the relevant year and continue to be determined further by the State Budget Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u457	Get it over with, Mr. Gokov, already.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u458	Yeah, I'm coming. I think these are all measures that can be supported, all the more so that they will not burden much budget. And the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy deserves to increase its budget a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u459	Thank you, dear Mr. Gokov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? A statement, Mr. Nedyalkov? Please come in for a statement. [[Heckling]] Not on this term. There was a line, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u460	I really want everyone to be so punctual. Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Minister Petkov, honourable colleagues! I would like to elaborate on one detail of what Mr. Gokov said in one way. I want to develop it with great concern. Next year will be very difficult for the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. It has a reform that has begun with the new laws, which will require not only retention of the current capacity but also its increase. Plus, we are on the verge of an experiment, which is dictated by the already mature need among people with disabilities, their families, and is already growing need, expressed by the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy. And I'm worried about what? From the fact that in the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the expenditure for the Fund is not increased by what is necessary. I will briefly say, while the Social Assistance Officers will be entrusted everywhere with very heavy functions in the development of individual assessments of their needs, the assistance of people with disabilities in their self-assessment, the visits they need to make, the construction of new units. This will require serious capacity from serious specialists. With our Law, we have assigned new functions to the Labour Inspection. I only recall about the bankruptcy of the companies that owe wages. The employment agency must also work in new conditions where it can meet the needs of business for training and with the training of labour. All these things cannot be solved if this level of pay is maintained. The 10% increase, which Mr. Gokov is talking about, according to me and the knowledge I have, at least 60% of this is from the increase of the minimum wage. In this area, the people who work there are waiting with satisfaction for the increase in wages, and it is also 10%. If we look at how the Ministry's fund has been moving over the years, last year the increase as an absolute value in forecast data was greater than the increase now. I don't know if you'd agree, Mr. Secretary. Last year it was 10 million. Five hundred thousand. Ten million this year. $100,000. That's why these concerns lead me to this. Hopefully it won't come to the streets this year for protests to go out like people do if, God forbid, we can't properly conduct the reform with people with disabilities, as well as the social workers who have to carry it out. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u461	Thank you, dear Mr Nedyalkov. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. Colleagues, please take your seats, there's a vote coming up. Firstly, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. Vote 148 MPs: 56 against 76 abstentions 16. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the editorial amendment made by Mrs. Stoyanova in art. 14 of the State Budget Bill. Vote 156 MPs: 155 against 1, no abstentions. [[Private applause from GERB.]] The motion is accepted. Come in for a re-vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u462	Thank you, Madam President. I'm asking for a re-voting procedure. Some colleagues failed to vote. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u463	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Please, re-vote procedure. Vote 156 MPs: for 155, against none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for § 14 with the relevant editorial amendment supported by the Commission. We vote on the whole text with the editorial amendment. They voted 154 MPs: 98, none, abstention 56. The motion is accepted. Here you are, Mrs. Angelova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u464	Under art. 15 has a proposal of the MPs Nikolai Panev and Christian Vigenin: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 15 (1) the following amendments are made: 1. T. II. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 2. T. II. 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "31 900,0" by the number "Capital costs'. 3. T. II. 2.1. "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs' is replaced by "22 700,0" is replaced by "Acceptance of fixed assets and major repairs'. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 (2) the following amendments shall be made: 1. T. The number of the diagnosis and treatment policy is.392 658.2..404 2. In line "Everything is replaced by "Supreme 548 575,9" is replaced by "Supreme 560 575,9." The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: "Vl." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 15 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - in row 1.1. The number of the number of the two-four-four-four-three-six-one is replaced by the number of the - in row 1.2. "Subsidies and other current transfers' is replaced by the number "six hundred and twenty-four hundred twenty-six hundred and twenty-eight-eight-eight-eight-eight'. - in line 1.2.1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "Capital costs' by "Capital costs'; - in row 2.1. "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs' is replaced by "Acceptance of fixed assets and major repairs'; (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (transfers) ": - in line III. the number of the budget relationships - on line one. The reference budget budget budget is the number "s554 075.9" is replaced by "Surveillance budget" by "Surveillance budget." 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. "Politicals in the field of promotion, prevention and control of public health' is replaced by "137 125,0'; b) in row 2. The number of the diagnostics and treatment policy is synchronously replaced by the number of the diagnostics and the treatment policy (synchronised by the number of the diagnostics and the number of the diagnostics and the treatment policy (synchronised by the number of the diagnostics and the number of the (c) of row 3. The number of medicinal products and medical devices in the field of medicine and medical devices is replaced by (d) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 15.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u465	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Naydenova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u466	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of the National Assembly! The planned budget of the Ministry of Health amounts to 548 575.9 thousand. BGN, with growth compared to the budget for 2018 of 53.4 million. BGN, or increases with a growth of 10.78 percent. As the actuarial estimates show, on the basis of the changes in the sector implemented in the sector.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Therefore, on the basis of estimates which made the experts of BSP for Bulgaria, between the first and second votes in our proposal we propose the number of the importer in art. 15 "Costs', i.e. 2 to be replaced by the number. "560 575,9 thousand. lv.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u467	Thank you, dear Dr. Naydenova. Are there lines? I can't see. Mr. Penev, come in for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u468	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Our proposal is related to providing an additional financial resource of 12 million to complete the new hospital complex in the town of Yambol. During this period of six years there are only promises, but without real steps to solve this extremely important issue for the citizens of Yambol district. In this regard, we propose that the budget of the Ministry of Health increase by 12 million. BGN, which are targeted funds to complete the hospital complex, because solving this problem only with promises so far did not lead to a real result. Our specific proposals: in art. 15, p. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 65000. 3 "Acquirement of fixed assets and major repairs' is replaced by.................................................................................................................. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u469	Thank you, dear Mr Penev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Yordanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u470	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! The trend we have seen in recent years is more and more activities to be transferred, and the amounts for them, respectively, from the Ministry of Health to the National Health Insurance Fund. However, we believe that the Ministry of Health has its functions and they should also have enough resources to help the different units of the healthcare system in the Republic of Bulgaria. We come to a situation where the Ministry has to react, and because of lack of funds it cannot react. The latest examples are the search for funds to buy an angiograph for the Vratsa District Hospital, the search for funds to buy haemodialysis apparatus, which is good that it is realized, simply because equipment and high technologies in the healthcare system run out relatively quickly, and hospitals, I am talking about state and municipal, do not have enough to buy them. For your information, the debts of state and municipal hospitals are now almost 600 million. BGN, and the private ones are about 400. This all says that we do not have enough funds for capital investments, and when there is no money for capital investments in one activity, it simply does not work and that is why we propose the role in financing the health care system in Bulgaria, the Ministry of Health to increase. That is why we offer exactly row two in art. 2 "Policies in the field of diagnosis and treatment', where funds can be taken precisely to finance capital investments in hospitals, and not only in hospitals, but also in other establishments, to increase by 240 million. lv. At the same time, we believe that policies in the field of promotion, prevention and control of public health in Bulgaria are constantly being underestimated. We all know that we need to have prevention, disease prevention, and at the same time we do not devote these funds to modern prevention, which is currently optimal in this information world. We therefore propose that the funds increase here to 36 million. lv. Finally, the funds for policies in the field of medicinal products and medical devices propose to increase by 10 million. lv. All this makes a sum of 250 million. BGN, which I believe must be provided to the Ministry of Health in order to meet some of the requirements which, I repeat, the healthcare system has to have with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u471	Thank you, Professor Yordanov. Do we have any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches, colleagues? I can't see. Please invite the Quaestors to the House. Let's move on to the vote. First, I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Nikolay Penev and Christian Vigenin. They voted 140 MPs: 52, against 66, abstention 22. The offer is not accepted. I now put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 145 MPs: 52, against 76, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 15 which is supported by the Commission. Vote 147 MPs: 91, against 54, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u472	Under art. 16 The proposal of the National Representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "VІІ." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 16 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row 1.1. The number of the number ssynchronous is replaced by 427 173,1 and is replaced by the number synchronous. (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (transfers) ": - in line III. the number of the budget relationships (transfers)..652 - on line one. The reference budget budget budget budget is 1 206 642,5 and shall be replaced by 1 371 413.6. - in row 2. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, information and publications directly linked to the achievement of the objective of the programme. - in line 2.2. The number of transfers is replaced by the number of "551,397,9" by "630 169,0"; - in line 2.2.1. ............................................... for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences (Български Academy of Sciences) the number - in line 2.2.2. The number of the State Higher Schools is replaced by the number of the State Higher 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. "Policy in the field of comprehensive, accessible and quality pre-school and school education. Lifelong learning. The number..578 388.6. is replaced by.669 b) of line 3. In para. 4 the table is amended as follows: (According to the table attached to the text of the Commission Report.(See Annex II to Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with Regulation (EC) No 1107/2009 in conjunction with The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Milen Vassilev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: IMO Res.MSC.98 (73) - (LSA The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 75000. 2 "Capital costs' to be created a new point: "2.2." Transfer for renovation of student dorms, 29 400.0 The Commission supports the proposal in principle. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 16.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u473	The table doesn't read it, okay. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Statements? Professor Klisarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u474	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen ministers, honourable Mr. Valchev, honourable Committee on Education and Science, colleagues! I would like to start with positivism and say that we are very much in favour of the Ministry's proposal for a 20% increase in teachers' salaries, for a 10% increase in non-pedagogical staff, 42 million. lv. for extracurricular activities at school, especially for working with students, for whom the Bulgarian language is not maternal, for vocational education and other moments and points of the budget, which are raised. [[Applause.]] But here I'd like to say a big one. We are currently working with 3.6 of the gross domestic product. The European standards are between 4.5 and for the most developed countries is 7. I hope that we will gradually work together in this direction and we will be able to reach at least 5% of gross domestic product. The second point I would like to take seriously is our 50 million-dollar offer. BGN, which can be found, and they are in connection with the fact that we offer one... [[Reply.]] They're in the budget. We've shown in the alternative budget where to find them. But let's not apostrophe, let's say this is extremely important because we offer one textbook per item, free of charge up to 12th grade. Free textbooks are also a step towards social policy and a window to education. Another point we've offered, and that's $20 million for the National Library. You will say: why in this budget? Yes, this money can also be to the budget for culture, but I must stress that the National Library needs repair first, so that we can preserve what we have, then from modernization in order to preserve Bulgarian literature and our priorities, including with the Strategy for development, education and preservation of Bulgarian education. Unfortunately, things are not so good in the field of higher education. There's no increase in budget. 39 million is an increased budget for higher education, which will be allocated in relation to the quality offered by universities. Legal policy, but these 39 million are absolutely insufficient because there is a disproportion in higher education, on the one hand, between different universities, I can give an example, and this is also related to the salaries of teachers at universities. I'm really going to give the most striking example there is a professor at a university with a salary of BGN 897. against another university of 3000 leva. We must fight this disproportion in universities and guarantee a good salary for the assistants, for the teachers, because there will be no young people left in the Bulgarian universities. With minimum wage for the state 560 BGN, the assistant salary may not be close to this minimum wage and sometimes not even 100 BGN. It's a difference with her. We therefore offer 78 million more for higher education institutions to guarantee at least the funds needed to respect the minimum wage and to keep our young teachers and PhD students at universities. Thirdly, I would like to draw attention to the Bulgarian science, which should not only be in the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences but also in universities. Let us not, of these funds, and we cannot guarantee 10% of the university's subsidy, which is recorded under the Law of 10 per cent for scientific activity. Unfortunately, this indicator cannot be achieved either. I also have an explanation why the salaries are so low at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and at some of the universities because the subsidy for a student has not been updated for nearly 10 years. In this regard, I call for attention to higher schools, the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and the Agricultural Academy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u475	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Here you are, Professor Bachvarova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u476	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I will start with what my colleague has completed.. that science is not financed with this budget and creates prerequisites for it to be with a calming function. With the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences you have signed a tripartite agreement in February, in which you made a commitment to a wage update compared to the average salary, and also to fund the Academy, which is significantly behind in terms of the budget subsidy. Our proposal is for this subsidy to be 107 million. BGN, but clearly in the budget this is not reflected. Nor is the agreement you signed in February, which means that the Academy... [[Reply by MP Milena Damyanova.]] You can give me a line. ...will end up basically being underfunded. This is genocide! Believe me, you have a research strategy, you have absolutely no results. The Science Research Fund is on a symbolic level. Science at universities is 8 million, which goes mostly for some textbooks that need to be distributed accordingly. Why does the Ministry of Education and Science for the tenth year act like a stepmother to research? You don't understand them, you can't look into the work of scientific institutes or do you just think there's no need for Bulgarian science? There is no innovation without Bulgarian science! If this is not understood, you cannot develop innovative strategies. You can't want the Bulgarian economy to develop if you don't support the scientific community. £800. average salary at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences tell me exactly how many people will stay and work? How many doctoral students, how many young scientists will go to develop Bulgarian science? Please note, we insist that what we have proposed is an increase in the budget of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, now and not January, as last year, when they went to protest, and you immediately provided 15 million respectively. lv. additionally. That's our offer. PRESENT YAVOR NOTEV: Thank you, Professor Bachvarova. Are there any lines? I won't. Here you are, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u477	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mrs. Bachvarova! Last year, you, the National Assembly in force, adopted a National Strategy for Promotion of Research, in which the increase of funds for research is at stake. This strategy is implemented in a second year in a row through the presented draft budget. The funds for research can also be seen in the Report to the budget. The budget has increased by nearly 200 million in these two years. Specifically with regard to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, the subsidy was increased for this year by 6 million, then by another 15 million. National scientific programs were approved. Something that was not available in the previous years, amounting to 20 million, of which 10 million will enter the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. 10 million were approved for the implementation of the National roadmap for scientific infrastructure, of which 7 million will take place at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The funds for the Fund were increased by 8 million, of which nearly 4 million will take place at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. The sum of the funds has been increased by over 40 million. This growth is without analogue in other years and for other years, without analogue with other budgetary organisations. The difference in this case is that you propose this to happen unconditionally, and we have bet it through the Research Fund and especially through national scientific programmes. That is to say against the award of certain activities that matter to society and which are carried out on a competitive basis, or which we as a state have entrusted to the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences, so in this sense what you said is not accurate. The funds for the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences have been increased to a very large extent, and one of the 11 national scientific programs is precisely for the support of young scientists and post-doctoral students. All the commitments in the Agreement that you have quoted have been fulfilled. That's not true. You're not familiar with the Agreement. There's no commitment you've been quoting. Absolutely all commitments in the Agreement that we signed at the beginning of the year are fulfilled, and this draft budget continues to implement the National Scientific Strategy. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u478	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Are there any speeches? I don't see any MPs who want it. We are going to vote on the proposals for art. 16. Firstly, we are voting on the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. Vote 127 MPs: 46, against 74, abstention 7. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer for art. 16, supported by the Commission. Voted 129 MPs: 89 against 39, abstention 1. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u479	Under art. 17 has a proposal of the MP Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs: I'll be In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following changes are made: 1. In para. 1, Section III. "Budget relationships, (transfers) " the number of items. 1 column 3 s 168 396,2 "s' is replaced by "synchronous' is replaced by "synchronous' is replaced by "synchronous' is replaced by "synchronous' is replaced by "synchronous' is replaced by "synchronous' is replaced by "synchronous' and 2. In para. 2 of the State Budget Bill of the Republic of Bulgaria to amend the proposed policy costs as follows: a) 1800.01.00 Policy on the conservation of movable and immovable cultural heritage (including repair of the People's Library + complementary subsidy for repair of Chitalishtes and Regional Libraries of Culture) the number 1800.01.01 Budget Programme 1800.01.02 Budgetary Programme "Conservation and presentation of the movable cultural heritage and visual arts" b) 1800.02.00 Politics in the field of the creation and promotion of contemporary art in the country and abroad and access to quality artistic education the number 1800.02.01 Budget Programme 1800.02.02 Budget Programme 1800.02.03 Budget Programme "Scenery Arts" (Secretary Arts) is replaced by "Secretary Arts" (Secretary Arts) (Secretary Arts) (Secretary Arts) (Secretary Arts) (Secretary Arts) (Secretary Arts) (Secretary Arts) (Secretary Arts and Arts) (Secretary Arts and Arts) (Secretary Arts) 1800.02.06 Budget Programme "Helping the Development of Bulgarian Culture and Arts, the Bulgarian Book Sector, Libraries and Chitalishtes" is replaced by The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and group of MPs: "VІІ." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 17 the following amendments and additions are made: 1. In para. 1: (a) Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. - on line one. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. - in row 1.1. The number of the number of the Member States shall be replaced by the number of the Member States which are not members of the European Union and shall be replaced by - in row 2. "Capital costs' is replaced by "12 206,7'; (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (transfers) ": - in line III. the number of the budget relationships (transfers)..168 - on line one. The number of the budget is.168 396,2........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ 2. In para. 2: (a) of row 1. "Politicals in the field of protection of the movable and immovable cultural heritage' is replaced by b) in row 2. "Politicals in the field of the creation and promotion of contemporary art in the country and abroad and access to quality artistic education' the number c) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 17.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u480	Thank you, Mrs. Angelova. Statements? Here you go, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u481	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, honourable ministers! I would like to motivate one of the proposals made by my colleagues from the Committee on Culture from BSP for Bulgaria and in which we insist that the budget for culture will become at least 200 million. BGN, not as provided for in the budget The truth is this: when one sees the proposals, one understands the culture is the waste of this budget. We may have heard a lot of good talk about the budget, a lot of praises, a lot of thumping in the chest, but the truth is that culture is the black hole and it has been assigned the role of the little matchmaker to freeze out in the cold, and what's left has been allocated to it. This shows no relation to culture and, most importantly, is contrary to even one order of the Minister of Culture, who claims that his ministry should work and make culture a priority. Not at all! Moreover, the freezing of the percentage of 0.5 of GDP actually gives away a lasting policy of neglecting culture, because timelessness here is actually degrading and shows no development. The long-term budget forecast is even that culture will be 0.4% of gross domestic product, which is contrary to all the promises we have heard from GERB that it will work to reach culture to 1% of GDP. Not at all! On the contrary, the fall continues to be complete and, if I understand it, there were no periods in which it was different, but in 2008, at the time of the so hated triple coalition, we reached 0.8% of GDP. Now the degradation continues. That's the sad truth. In the budget, culture is the role of the orphan sent out to the cold. Mr. Minister, there is something else to say, however, that this proposal, made in this way, apart from the attitude towards culture, issued an attitude towards the entire Ministry. After such a proposal the only normal reactions are two: one is to threaten with suicide, as recently is very modern, and with the representatives of the cabinet with the rail to jump off a bridge, or to shoot yourself in the square, and the other is simply to resign [[(shout by MP Stanislav Ivanov: "Eee!") I'm sorry, but...]] , as I quote, sir, I quote. Unfortunately, the attitude here shows only that culture will not be a priority within this government! Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u482	Thank you, Mr. Simov. Are there any lines? I can't see. Any other speeches? Mrs. Sawateva, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u483	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable colleagues! I can't be that colorful. I think that me and my colleagues on the left have a dream together, and it's one day that someone will stand here and say that there's enough money for culture. We all realize it's a utopia. Money, of course, especially for culture, is always wanted more and always not enough. But I cannot agree with the type of qualifications that culture is a runt and that it is completely ignored. I'm going to counter with a few numbers because it's important that people have an idea of what's going on in this area. However, we have to say that the 2019 budget provides for 20 million more for culture. When we talk about the money that is for next year, we have reason to say: Two times 100%. The funds, which have been increased by 100%, are for library funds and for the book release of 1 million last year now becomes 2 million; and once again 100% when it comes to creative projects, including the Fund of Culture. In 2018, 1 million and 500 are planned, now increased by so much. Another very important feather is for festivals and competitions, because if 740 thousand are planned last year, they are now jumping by half a million. I know that when we talk about culture, the figures are not expressive enough, but when we talk about a budget, we have to explain, however, because what the opposition said gives us the impression that the budget has not moved. We must point out that in all three media that are connected and which are under the hat of the Ministry, namely, which are towards the cultural budget, an increase is envisaged. Total for the Bulgarian National Television, National Radio and BTA is about 7 million. I don't want to overdo the numbers, but I will repeat a line, which my colleague Toma Bikov of this tribune said a while ago: Everything is a culture. When we talk about a budget, it is important to say that the more substantial part of the money that is invested in cultural projects is those funds that are intended to create an appropriate environment. The fact is, the theaters are full, the gyms are full, there are people in the galleries. I know the money is short and we'll always want more. I want more, too, but we have to understand what we have. Everything is culture, and that is why we must invest in an environment that is suitable and beneficial for the creation of cultural products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u484	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. First line, Mr. Simov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u485	Dear Mr. Chairman, dear Mrs. Sawateva! It's nice what you say. I like it generally as a statement and like the fact that we have to strive for dreams, however, how dreams always remain only for culture. I know it's good for artists to dream, but it's nice to be funded better. As much as you describe the estimates, the fact is that the increase is only 20 million, which will reach mostly for wages, there will be nothing left for capital expenditure, there will be nothing left! The truth is: culture remains at the same level as this year. You can boast that the money for defence or education is more, but culture is frozen in timelessness, so characteristic of Boyko Borisov 3. I regret the harsh conclusions, I regret that it should be said in this brutal way, but Bulgarian culture is not a priority, even your tone proves it, because when we are stuck in an apology and we start talking with lines like: Everything is a culture, then really things are very bad. When we talk about the Ministry of Culture, there the retreat is quite obvious. Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u486	Second line, Mr. Spas Gurnevsky. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u487	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The speech and the line of Mr. Culturtregger of BSP were magnificent. We need to cheer up a little, live and healthy man, he has a little Plovdiv streak and I will bring him back to the topic of Plovdiv to tell him that right in culture, unlike other sectoral policies, not everything is money. For Mrs. Sawateva, of course. For culture also needs a lot of heart, a lot of love to have Bulgarian culture. There was, and there will be! I will tell you that in 1999 a European month of culture was held in Plovdiv... Then I had the honor of being the mayor of this town. Your very good MP has escaped from his state exam to come and listen to Metallica in front of 60 thousand people in Plovdiv. Let's give him a round of applause! [[Applause.]] A metalist, and a metalist can't be a communist. Now, when you talk about bad Boyko and bad culture, I want to tell you that thanks to this bad prime minister and this bad minister of culture next year Plovdiv will be a European capital of culture and the face of Bulgaria in front of Europe and the world! This is the kind of culture Bulgaria needs. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u488	Thank you, Mr. Gurnevsky. Third line, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u489	Dear Mrs. Sawateva, you say that we all have a dream to have more money for culture. This dream can be realized because, dear colleague, culture can be won. Bulgaria can win. I'm talking not only about gaining self-esteem, because we have an extremely rich culture, not only about gaining popularity, but also about making money. You see what is happening in neighbouring countries, our neighbours, for example Greece. As an example, I will give the Thracian temples in the vicinity of Starosel. You know, there's not even a sign there to some of them, and they're unique worldwide. There's no sign. People can't find them. There are the Thracian tombs, the Thracian temple, the one with the columns. Now everyone at this time can go, load up the columns in some truck and leave with it, not guarded, not supported because there is no money in the Ministry, and together with the Ministry of Tourism the so-called cultural tourism can be done. Bulgaria can profit from this thing, as long as enough money is invested. I am sure that the current minister and the former ministers of culture want to maintain, want to develop these monuments, but do not have this opportunity because this budget restricts them. So accept our proposals to have more money for culture because these colleagues who said that culture is everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u490	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Mrs. Sawateva's denture.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u491	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. With regard to the findings that culture is frozen if 20 million for BSP is zero, I cannot imagine how they relate to the funds. 20 million is 20 million and they can be spent very rationally if, of course, a proper policy is created. I am convinced and I cannot accept that absolutely nothing has happened. Of course, I repeat that no matter how much it is given for culture, more will always be required, but we need to be realistic and know what we have. As for what you said, Mr. Popov, I agree, yes, from culture can be won and the full halls show it. Of course, it can be won from other sectors. I think the Ministry of Culture has the right vision for that. You just need to push a little more pedal. As for what Mr. Gurnevsky said, I agree, not everything is money, but money is also important. Of course, money is the only thing that doesn't happen. She needs a heart! In many areas we see that the results appear when there are combinations of both things. I'm just gonna add something I missed. It is important to note that in this budget there is some good tendency to strengthen, to enable development and regional culture, because there is an increase in subsidized numbers for museums as well as regional ones, for libraries and for Chitalishtes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u492	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Mr. Chenchev asked for the floor. Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u493	Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! Let's get back to it, because here we had a statement: communists, medalists. However, we are talking about culture and it is extremely important. Several times out of this tribune in my personal capacity, I thanked the Committee on Culture and Media for its good work, and I have been sincere. The colleague Toma Bikov can confirm that this commission is functioning well. A consensus is reached on many issues. But I don't know if, Mrs. Sawateva, you criticized the minister when you said there should be more heart and soul in the Ministry and work with one. I believe every minister should work that way. It is a problem of governance when it increases money, yes, by 20 million, but the sector admits that this increase will be more for wages than for the development of activity. Bulgarian culture must develop activity because it is extremely important. At the moment, you know, everyone in the sector is saying it is difficult. We cannot, or with great effort, preserve our cultural values, but what remains to develop them? So the money is extremely insufficient. Here were mentioned numbers, let's remind them. I see that there are people who listen carefully: 0.4% of GDP, a trend in you, funding the culture So it may and may be a matter of politics, honourable Members. Nothing more, but nothing less! It's a matter of politics. Otherwise, if it were as you say, Mrs. Sawateva, there would certainly not have been such an explosion in society with regard to the so-called performance of Oda J'J'onn and what happened. There were some people gloating bones on the back of culture. You know exactly what I'm talking about. There wouldn't be such a public discontent. I think even Mr. Rashidov expressed it out loud, said his opinion dignified, which honors him. Makes an impression. It is the underfunded culture that leads to this discontent. If you were thinking about developing the culture we are talking about right now, you might have thought about it better and accepted the proposal, which is a European practice in a European Union country - Italy - about the cultural check. Because this would have cost no more than seven, eight million leva a year, because, unfortunately, the people who turned 18 years old are decreasing every year more and more in the country and there are not many. We need to know that, too. Having said the colleague of the Thracian tombs, I must tell you that the discovery of the relics of John the Baptist on the island of St. Ivan to Sozopol is famous, I would say, in world history. Only how we store it is another matter. Whoever wants to see it with their own eyes, go and see what state this sanctum is in, that chapel there. And indeed, anyone can plunder whatever they want. That's disturbing. And anyone who's in pain for culture, I believe that with all of us, there's no way they can't miss it. I understand that this twenty million is more than that, but not when it comes to wages alone, and that is what everyone said in the Commission. Let's remember that and consider what we're proposing as an option. I think that, as we reach consensus in this committee, we can also improve things with joint efforts in the future. The topic is really very important and is extremely important for Bulgarian culture and Bulgarian memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u494	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the texts and proposals for art. 17. I put to the vote a proposal by the MP Stefan Danailov and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 120 MPs: 44, against 55, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal from MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, not supported by the Commission. They voted 114 MPs: 35, against 68, abstentioned 11. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on the proposal of an importer supported by the Commission for a text of art. 17. Vote 120 MPs: 76 against 40 abstentions 4. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u495	Under art. 18 has a proposal from the MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs: "Ix." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 18 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In para. 1: (a) in Section II. The amount of assigned - in line two. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000.• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • - on line one. The number of the current expenditures is replaced by the number of the current expenditures... 50 - in row 1.1. The number of the number of the Member States shall be replaced by the number of the Member States which are not members of the European Union. (b) in Section III. "Budget relationships (transfers) ": - in line III. the number of the budget relationships (transfers) is replaced by the number of the budget of the budget of the European Union and is replaced by the number of the budget of the European Union; - on line one. The reference budget budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the budget for the financial year 2. In para. 2: (a) A new row 3 shall be created: "3." Natural disaster prevention policy 10 000,0. b) current row 3 becomes row 4; c) of row The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 18.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u496	Statements? Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u497	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Madame Minister! We offer to your attention a reasonable proposal for a third year in a row. I draw your attention to understand it: in para. 2, after t. 2 Policy in the field of the national environmental monitoring and information security system We offer policy in the field of the preface of natural disasters 10 million. Why? We all know that rivers are a building factor, we all know that within the cities the mayors of municipalities have the task of taking care of and making a reference with their maintenance. There are no taxes on this thing. Taxes, you see how saved and how many commitments municipalities have. Our proposal is to start with a small step for all Bulgarian municipalities that have rivers to be able to start, first, to maintain, to prevent, then to reveal the potential of river infrastructure. I appeal to all Members of Parliament: support it, it is a good decision. It allows for good policy. Otherwise, we're working hard. A disaster has come or funds are being sought, or disasters and accidents are overflowing, which are necessary for other larger policies. That's our offer. It is extremely working and I appeal to you to understand it and support it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u498	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. Are there any lines? Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Georgiev. I'm trying to save time, so I'm begging you to make a quick statement. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u499	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Two weeks ago, we were looking at the first reading of the Atmospheric Air Cleanness Act. You know that Bulgaria has been condemned. We have the dirtiest air in the European Union. We have a two-month deadline. Then, in my speech, I said that this extremely important topic was not laid down in the 2019 budget, even in the forecast three-year framework 2019, 2020 and 2021. Because then, you know, 500 grand was at stake. lv. in the State Agency for Metrological and Technical Supervision, as the next art. 19 is the Law of Economy, I would very much like that 500,000. BGN, which were then set for laboratories and administrative capacity, importers to indicate where they were provided, in which order, in which feather? I bothered to see them, but I never saw them. Once again, an extremely important topic for the purity of the atmospheric air. Then we talked a lot about this topic, you know, it's one of the most important topics in our big cities. I wish, even in the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Water, I didn't see this topic worth mentioning. If I may, the importers will give a little more detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u500	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. Are there any lines? I won't. Come in for a statement, Mr. Kostadinov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u501	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! I would like to draw your attention to art. 18 and to illustrate my words with an example for the budget of this ministry. Honourable Members, the capital expenditure at stake, including the acquisition of fixed assets and major repairs, is twice as much as the revenue from fines, penalties and penalty interest. I believe that we do not have bad environmental legislation, but insufficient control of environmental processes and insufficient sanctions lead to nature still being in such a state. We believe that the revenue from fines, penalties and penalty interest has been significantly reduced here. The second example I can give you in the context of what I am talking about is regarding environmental policies that are in para. 2, to be exact, point one and point two. Note that policies in the field of environmental protection and use include 26 million. If we make higher incomes, and I say that these are possible, and our proposal is to set a higher amount, to a much greater extent environmental policy management can be protected. In addition, the National Environmental Monitoring System has only 10 million. lv. I would also ask that this statement be considered as supporting the proposals of colleagues Dora Yankova and those who have given concrete proposals. Those are my bigger remarks.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u502	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposals for art. 18. Firstly, we are voting on the Commission's unsupported proposal by MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs. They voted 99 MPs: 30, against 52, abstention 17. The offer is not accepted. We are voting on a proposal by importer, supported by the Commission, for the text of art. 18. They voted 106 MPs: 65, against 38, abstention 3. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u503	Article 19, Art. 19, art. Art. 20, Art. 21. The Commission shall support the text of the importer as members from 19 to 21 inclusive.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u504	Are there any statements on the three texts reported? We are discussing proposals for Articles 19, 20 and 21 on which no proposals have been received. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u505	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! I will address the issue of the budget of the Ministry of Tourism because it is a clear example of how revenue is underestimated and then a re-execution is received in the budget, which is distributed behind the back of the National Assembly by decrees of the Council of Ministers. What do I mean? A little over 4 million revenue from concessions is laid down in the revenue section of the budget. Colleagues, concessions for the current year are perhaps within a little over 18 million. The way it is distributed is as follows: 50% of this revenue goes to the local municipality, 10% goes to the budget of the respective governor and the remaining 40% goes to the state budget. If, for the next year, we expect the same revenue, or even greater than those registered for this year, the simple 18 million account shows that around 7 million should be the revenues in the budget from concessions fees, which is much more than the 4 million that are set. At the same time, the number 340 thousand is exactly the same in the budget for last year, only the difference is that, at the beginning of this year, we adopted amendments to the Tourism Act, in which the Ministry of Tourism was given the possibility of a control unit for more control, which in turn implies the possibility of greater sanctions and therefore more revenue from this feather. At the same time, this is not at stake in the budget. For this reason we will not support art. 21 of the budget of the Ministry of Tourism. A word of advice to the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Angelkova. Ms. Angelkova, you must insist on a higher budget to the Minister of Finance at least for the next budget, because the budget of the Ministry of Tourism is disproportionate, given the revenues that tourism brings to the state budget, as well as the employment with which it contributes in Bulgaria. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u506	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. Is there a line? Here you are, you have the floor for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u507	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear ministers, dear colleagues! Dear colleague Prodanov, we all want more money in the budgets of the ministries. I don't see any of my colleagues who don't want this, but these are the opportunities. I think there's something much more important. That Ministry wasn't there. We from the Political Party GERB promised it to the industry. I think I'm sure that this ministry should have been set up, and it's already a fact. The question is how money is spent effectively by the Ministry. I see a really effective spending of money. We've had this debate in the Commission as well. I have asked the Minister of Tourism Mrs. Angelkova if an analysis of the money spent, which is for advertising. This analysis is done and I see a very large return on spending this money. This is also evident from the growth given each year by tourism, which is thanks to the good work of the Ministry. You say you need to predict more money than sanctions imposed by the Ministry. I do not think that this policy is right because there is enough repression on business and, above all, the business that concerns tourism. I don't think this should be the way. The role of the Ministry of Tourism and its control bodies is for prevention. I think this prevention is already quite effective and there are no such violations in tourism, because the tourism business has already started working the rules anyway. So the policy that you are proposing to increase in the part of the Ministry of Tourism's incomes from fines and sanctions is not correct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u508	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. Are there any other lines? I won't. Mr. Prodanov, come on in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u509	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! Dear Mr. Boychev, first of all, when it comes to sanctions. If you remember, when we discussed the Tourism Act in April, I made this very statement from the stand that we think there is no point in this additional unit, which should be for control because the Commission for Consumer Protection performs these functions. Then you accepted this thing. After all, why does this unit that receives salaries, missions have travel costs, checks and so on, when, at the same time, what is expected from the proceeds of penalties and fines is the same as the number of times that unit did not exist? By this logic, it turns out that this unit is a burden to the Ministry and to the State. About the bigger budget. In my speech, I noted that it is disproportionate to the contribution of tourism to the economy, because you know that tourism generates more than 11% of gross domestic product. At the same time, in a percentage ratio, the state budget offers a very small part of the whole thing. In costs we have about 12 million to advertise. You know about the tourist exhibitions we participate in, however little they may be. We feel there as poor little brothers against the backdrop of our competition of neighbouring Greece, Turkey, Croatia and so on, which have a much bigger budget. So the policy in the sector requires that there be proper planning in order for there to be even higher revenues from this sector and therefore even higher employment. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u510	Thank you, Mr. Prodanov. [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Mr. Chenchev, is your procedure relevant to the vote? [[Replicate from the National Representative Ivan Chenchev.]] Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u511	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen of ministers! I propose after the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group of BSP for Bulgaria, half an hour rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u512	We will vote on this proposal after we vote on the texts. [[Noise and lines.]] There's a statement. [[Noise and lines.]] We continue, then we vote on the texts and the proposal for a holiday in such order. [[Noise and lines.]] Excuse me, of course, the proposal for a break is not voted, but pronounced. Thank you for your help, it is. You have the floor to speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u513	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! I will make a brief comment on the proposal under art. 19 on the budget of the Ministry of Economy. I am impressed that the proposed draft budget does not talk anywhere about the effectiveness of the funds invested, even less explains on what basis budget forecasts are made when we talk especially about foreign direct investments in the country. For example, in the 2018 draft budget, the Ministry of Economy indicated that it expects 17 projects classified under the Investment Promotion Act to be implemented in the country with the total amount of investments 295 million. lv. and with a budget of the Ministry of Economy to promote investments of 13,4 million. lv. In January this year, however, only about 246 million have entered our country. lv. in the form of direct foreign investment, which means that the budget forecast for 2018 may not be fulfilled by the end of 2018. For 2019, the same 2018 draft budget, which we were looking at last year, provides for direct foreign investments of 305 million. lv. In the current draft budget that we are looking at today with you, for 2019 they have already become 418 million. lv. This is probably done only in order to justify those envisaged for 2019. The Commission therefore concludes that the measure is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of the Treaty. lv. expenditure of the Ministry of Economy to promote investment. However, the truth is tragic because in emerging economies a good level of investment is considered between 5 and 10% of gross domestic product and the share of foreign direct investment is therefore greater. With us for 2018, foreign direct investments are about 1.7% of gross domestic product, and, as I said, this share is symbolic. According to World Bank statistics, however, the country is also lagging behind against other countries in the region. For example, the Serbian economy attracts twice as much foreign investment, which amounts to 6.9% of Serbia's gross domestic product. In Romania, the share of foreign direct investments from gross domestic product is equal to 2.3%, and in our country, if the optimistic, as we have already said, budget forecasts for 2019, will be only 0,36% of gross domestic product. In a word and this year the conclusion is clear: there is no better indicator than the amount of foreign direct investment for the state of the business climate in Bulgaria. It's not good. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u514	Thank you, Mr. Danchev. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? There are no requests from MPs. Madam Secretary? There's nothing to add. Then we shall proceed to voting on the three texts examined separately: under art. 19 we are voting on the proposal of an importer supported by the Commission. They voted 132 MPs: for 84, against 48, there are no abstentions. The motion is accepted. We are now voting on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for art. 20. They voted 132 MPs: for 84, against 47, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. We vote on the text of the importer, supported by the Commission, for art. 21. Vote 134 MPs: 84 against 49, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. On the occasion of the request made on behalf of a parliamentary holiday group, the same shall correspond to art. 64, para. 2. This is a request that should give grounds for rest at most 30 minutes and not less than 15. Allow me to navigate to the lower limit: 15 minutes rest. [[General applause from GERB.]] [[After the break]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u515	Here you are, Mrs. Angelova, to present art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u516	Under art. 22 has a proposal from MP Krum Zarkov: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2, p. 2 in the table in column 3, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. There is a proposal from the MP Nikolai Tishev: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2 in the table, row 2, in column 2, the number The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 22.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u517	Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Milkov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u518	Madam President, honourable Members! With the budget review, we entered the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. In this part is the budget of the Railway Infrastructure Agency. Many times in parliamentary control, me and my colleagues in the area from which we are from Ruse have raised questions about road repairs from the Republican road network. In the material accompanying the API budget, they are not present in the programme and therefore we have made a specific proposal for inclusion to increase the amount in column 3 by 10 million. lv. to repair and rehabilitate the roads precisely indicated by us, namely: Ruse "Razgrad," Ruse "Kubrat," Red Water "Semerdjievo," Novgrad "Jjulyunitsa," Pisan "Kubrat," Semerdjievo "Sperno," Slivo pole "Yuper," Piperkovo "Karamanovo" and Gara "Byala "Bosilkovtsi." All that I am setting out is not from the knowledge that I have, but from the reports of the Road Infrastructure Agency, the regional governance in Ruse, which also found the poor state of these sections of the Republican Road Network, which was confirmed by parliamentary control. That's why I invite you to support us.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u519	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u520	Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, honourable Members! The proposal I have made is for an increase in the budget of the Road Infrastructure Agency by 12 million. lv. for the road Malko Tarnovo "Tsarevo." By the way, we had a similar proposal a year ago... no result. This time it could have been, what should I call it, the highway of Strandja, if it had not been left up to a fourth-grade one, it could have been a tool for the development of the entire region if it had not been left in such a miserable state. We MEPs from Burgas came up with a blister in our language to speak on this issue and I mean not only the MPs from BSP, but also colleagues from other parliamentary forces, because in our 2017 election programmes we had all included it as a priority and that it needed major repairs. Unfortunately, we ask questions, raise the topic, colleagues from GERB make a meeting with Mr. Nankov, come up with very good news about the road, result of zero. Meeting at the API with the management.. the same result. Only about a month and a half ago, I think, a question of our MP Petar Kanev, the Minister of Regional Development, made a commitment to some kind of renovation. I talked to the people from Malko Tarnovo yesterday, started cutting asphalt in some places, filling holes accordingly, but this is obviously going to be a partial repair, and we insist on something else. Because with these stitches that will be made after this winter, you know, Strandzha is a mountain area, at the end of March the result will be the same and on this road will be very difficult to travel. That is why we are making a concrete proposal, there is a need for major repairs and this is not just some obsession of the people's representatives from the BSP for Bulgaria and from the Burgas Election Region, I think we have a full agreement with the MPs from all the parliamentary groups in the area, so we are also making this proposal for an increase of the API budget by 12 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u521	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. Are there any lines? I won't. To speak, Mr. Kostadinov has the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u522	Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable colleagues! I'm not making a replica of colleagues from my parliamentary group, I'm making a statement. But, dear colleagues, comrades, this is not going to work out so elegantly, we're not going anywhere. If we're talking about part 10 million here or 5 million there, I don't think this will fix Bulgaria. I want to tell you this: as a result of the failure to accept a first point, the two funds that we have proposed were three "regional development fund" worth 300 million. lv. and Fund for the Rehabilitation of Fourth-grade Road Infrastructure BGN, logically now they are not present in the budget of the Ministry. I read you two policies, I move on to the name of the policy area: Policy for the integrated development of the regions, effective and efficient use of public finances and financial instruments to achieve growth and improve the quality of the living environment. lv.! Policy for maintenance, modernization, construction of technical infrastructure related to improving transport accessibility and integrated management of water resources and geodefense - 400 million! Dear colleagues, I want to show you something. [[Shows sheet A3 with the number 289.]] Look! Please see everyone! See? It makes sense to ask: what is this? Two hundred and eighty-nine. is lower the average salary in Montana than the average wage in the country. Montana, the Northwest has long been no part of Europe, and I assure you that it is about not to be part of Bulgaria. If there's even a place for people to work, they can't get there because there are no roads. And if there's a road built, they can't afford the luxury of getting to their workplace. And if they get to some place of work, then this is what I showed you (again raises the list with the number) - BGN 289. Less for the people of Montana than the national average. Well, I'm asking: are these second-class people? What kind of people live there? What is this humiliation? And I immediately answer you: until these targeted development programmes are set for the Northwest and for every backward region, until we have targeted investments that have a cumulative effect on income, on employment, on wage levels, there will be no economy, there will be no social justice, there will be nothing! With all due respect, colleagues, I will support your proposals, but if we do not put things this way, we will have a second category of Bulgarians in many regions. I am opposed to such a definition of regional development policies. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u523	Thank you, Mr. Kostadinov. Are there any lines? I won't. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u524	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, Dear Ministers! Dear Minister for Regional Development, I rather have a question for you. You know that next year is the launch of the Tol system. The Road Law, which structured this unit to the Road Infrastructure Agency, has been changed. Please answer my question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u525	Parliamentary control is on Friday.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u526	Mr. Lazarov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u527	Mr. Lazarov, we are discussing the state budget, in particular the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works. My question is to the minister, that's why he's here to answer, not to listen. Not a single minister has been concerned all day, has he? They're not witnesses of the conversation.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u528	Ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u529	My question is: where are the costs of these 900 people who will be appointed from 1 January in the budget, as there are currently competitions for appointments across the country? Where's the money at to build the system?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u530	In the toll system.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u531	As they will recover from the fees received, you understand that in the first eight or nine months you will not have such receipts? My question is: where in the Ministry's budget are the staff costs and the cost of building the system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u532	In the toll system!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u533	In which toll system?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u534	Thank you, Mr. Svilensky. Are there any lines to his statement? I won't. [[People representatives Georgi Svilenski and Stanislav Ivanov exchange lines.]] Are there any other statements? [[Replys from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u535	Will he answer the question?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u536	He'll most likely respond as soon as he decides and asks to take the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u537	What are we asking questions about?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u538	Here you go, Mr. Popov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u539	Thank you. Dear Madam President, honourable Members! Like my colleague Atanas Kostadinov, I'm gonna pick up this thing. [[The National Representative shall raise a sheet format A3 with the number 223.]] Two hundred twenty-three! There's so much less salary in the whole northwest. [[Noise and lines in GERB.]] There we refer to Vidin, Vratsa and Montana. We didn't see anywhere here in the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works budget for targeted Northwestern policy! Return the country to the Northwest! In the Northwest, the crisis and the demographic catastrophe is terrifying because there are no more people there. There it is, honourable Members, paragraph 22 "There is no investment because there is no staff and there is no footage because there is no investment!" That's the real problem. The northwest as a whole, of course, and Vidin in particular, cannot grasp the hair themselves, as in Andersen's fairy tales to get out of this swamp. Without targeted state aid, that just can't happen. In Vidin, the demographic disaster is truly terrifying, it is dictated by the lack of work, by the lack of investment in this region. See last year's statistics on how many people died and how many children were born. Only by statistics are several tens of thousands, but the reality is quite different. Most of the people from Vidin and Vidin region have left either Bulgaria or the region to seek their livelihood somewhere abroad or in large cities. There was talk about infrastructure to Vidin, about a high-speed 4-band road, about highways, all kinds of things there is no provision for in this budget. Nothing at all! Unfortunately for us! Vidin and the Northwest have been forgotten by this government again. It's not good, because whenever something doesn't have to happen, round tables or conferences are created. Several times there were such round tables in the previous National Assembly, and now, regarding the Northwest. There was a Strategy for North-West Development, which reached the Council of Ministers as early as 2008, 2009. The Strategy has not changed, the Northwest has not developed so much since then. Nothing has happened from her at this time. On the contrary, the development is negative. That is why the Northwest continues to be as if not part of Bulgaria "Costadinov, a colleague here said correctly that Montana may no longer be part of Bulgaria, the same applies to Vidin, and I think that also to Vratsa and at all to the Northwest. Did you know that the people there, where in a joke, where in serious terms, wanted to organise a referendum to go to Romania because they felt Bulgaria and the state more precisely as the stepmother for the Northwest? Pay attention to this end! There live decent people, there live worthy Bulgarians, hardworking people, who deserve your attention, deserve the attention of the state, the Council of Ministers, the executive power, and your majority! Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u540	Thank you, Mr. Popov. Is there a line to it? I won't. Any other speeches? Come in for a procedure, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u541	Thank you. Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, honourable colleagues! Firstly, and today earlier in the day in my speech, I called on one of the ministers to respond because from yesterday to today we had a minister who stood almost eight hours in this chair.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u542	Please change the procedure, not a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u543	It's for you, Madam President. I ask you very much to invite the ministers to stand up, to speak, so that we can have a debate. We have been in the Chamber for 15 hours and colleagues from GERB have dared several people to speak................. so that we can also answer these questions. In addition, Madam President, call on the ministers and colleagues of the government to answer their specific questions from my colleagues! Please! We really want to have a debate, we don't want to pick a fight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u544	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. The ministers are called, I have called them and now to respond, they can respond as soon as they want the floor, they will receive it immediately. Here you are, Mr. Ivanov, for a statement.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u545	Dear Madam President, honourable ministers, honourable Members! The budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works if it was not for my high level of education, I would tell you what I would have done with this budget! [[(Audience and lines from GERB: "What, what? Tell me what?]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u546	Stay polite, though!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u547	I will refer specifically to the topics and questions that concern me as a representative of the 3rd Mir Varna. First, on the main problem are the landslide processes in the area of the resort areas of the city of Varna. Nearly 10 years of naked promises, some nonsense, some fantasy from the relevant regional development ministers, that, you see, the panoramic path of the Trifon Zarezan is about to be made and the stream of tourists to Golden Sands will start there. Not at all! We're always at project research level. That's it! All over the world resort zones, resort towns are betting absolutely a lot of money from both budget and additional funds, just to develop these panoramic roads. Another nonsense, is even to put it mildly, on page 11, you say that you will end, see, the motorway ring of Bulgaria. Hey, guys, do you live in some parallel world? Would you mind telling me how you're going to finish the highway, not to mention the Black Sea Highway? Read the documents carefully before you! But that doesn't surprise me! You didn't even respect your little partner's demands at the beginning of the budget review, let alone respect what we had as a proposal under art. 1 of BSP's alternative budget! And not to mention the negligible amount of funds laid down on the water structure in the small municipalities of the Black Sea region. And you state your intention for some hypothetical development of cultural and historical tourism in the small municipalities of the Black Sea region!? It's a laugh! Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u548	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you are, you have the floor, Mr. Mladenov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u549	Dear Mrs. Chairman, honourable Members, Mrs. Minister! Pazardzhik District is the seventh largest in the country, but despite its attractive location, colleagues, especially colleagues from Pazardzhik, although it is near the highway, in recent years it has found less and less funds to attract investment. This is especially true for smaller municipalities. The presence of valuable natural resources, balneotherapy, mountain and ecotourism and the rich historical past enables our area to develop in the field of tourism. However, the roads are currently in a particularly miserable state. They do not allow investors to come and develop in Pazardzhik district. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 22, para. 2, p. 2 of the budget you bet 467 million. 533 thousand. lv. My proposal is to lay down several roads in Pazardzhik district. These are: road II-37 Pazardzhik Pazardzhik is one of the district cities that has no ring road or at least not fully built. Republican Road III - 3704 Pazardzhik - Bushulya, Republican Road III - 337 Bratsigovo - Ravnogor, and part of Republican Road III - 606 Pazardzhik - Strelcha. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u550	Thank you, Mr. Mladenov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Here you go, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u551	Dear Madam President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Ministers! I take the floor in relation to the problems in the water sector and the money resources set out in the budget of the Regional Ministry for Policy Making in this area. The plumbing and sewerage network in the country, first of all, is twice as big as the road network - state and municipal. Over 90 grand. km is the plumbing and sewerage network, and the funds foreseen and foreseen over the years for repair and reconstruction are in tens of times less. The water network is over 50 years old. Frequent plumbing accidents lead to a much greater cost of water and a serious resource for its maintenance. There are also many temporary places during the drying period. According to statistics, the water network accidents on average for the country are 1.09 accidents per kilometre, which is much, much more than the adopted European standard, namely 0,15 units per kilometre. Water loss due to plumbing accidents is around 60% on average for the country, while in the European Union it is about 20%. I am saying all this in relation to the amount provided for the water sector in the budget - 18 and a half million - an amount which is extremely insufficient to implement policies in the water sector. This is also my statement in connection with the fact that I am a MP from Haskovo region, where problems with clean drinking water are extremely great. During parliamentary control it was said that Haskovo will welcome this New Year with watermen, in 14 villages of the district there are problems with uranium in the water, all municipalities along the river Maritsa, the lower valley, have an extremely large amount of manganese. What Minister Nankov said two years ago: according to estimates for stabilisation of the sector by 2023, about 11 billion will be needed. BGN, as by 2020 3 billion should come from European programmes. However, half of the districts do not have consolidated water associations, contracts with water companies prepared preliminary regional surveys, i.e. they cannot apply for policy implementation in the water sector until the end of this period. In addition, according to the former minister, the public investment resource under the state budget, municipalities and water operators is expected to be around a billion and a half. I cannot understand how this volume of a billion and a half will be secured by the end of this programming period, or by 2020, when only 18.5 million is foreseen in the 2019 budget. lv.? What's the conclusion? Firstly, there is no consistency in the policy for the sector Secondly, there is no support or there is little support, I am not saying that it is gone, but there is little support for all those areas where there are no consolidated water associations. Small settlements, where they have major problems, as in Haskovo region, for example, with the amount of manganese in the water, do not have sufficient administrative capacity, nor do they have serious finances...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u552	Time, Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u553	...to solve these issues. These are issues that must solve the national budget, and this as policies has not been signed, although the sector needs serious reforms and serious support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u554	Thank you, dear Mr. Dinkov. Are there any lines? Mr. Genov, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u555	Dear ministers, honourable President, honourable Members! My line is to Mr. Dinkov. You're absolutely right, Mr. Dinkov, in everything you said, but you said there was no consistency. There's a consistency. For years, only $18 million, no more than that. You've done the bill very well that a billion and something listed as a public resource, I don't know how many years have you collected for 50 years to become... [[Reply from the National Representative Plamen Manushev.]] Mr. Manushev, don't interrupt me, listen to me, be patient.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u556	But not to infinity, because time is running out. Continue calmly, Mr. Genov. [[Reply from the National Representative Tsveta Karayancheva.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u557	Tell Mrs. Karayancheva not to call from the scene. [[Laughter and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u558	Quiet, please! Don't distract the speaker. Please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u559	Madam Minister, if you are thinking of making a new policy in this sector after your predecessor, let this sector not be the stepchild in your ministry, as it has always been. Mr. Dinkov, there's a pattern. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u560	Thank you, Mr. Genov. Are there any other lines to Mr. Dinkov? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u561	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues, ladies ministers! Dear Mr. Dinkov, I do not agree with you to set an example just for Haskovo. I understand the problems there and put myself in the place of people because I face the same problems in Sofia region. Until recently there were watermen and in Sofia region, until quite recently people were drinking mud, or at least trying to drink it, but they were put in a situation to have no other choice. Please pay attention to the population throughout the country in what conditions and how the government has already spent a year and a half, that and more, lied, but they have not lied to us. They lied to people through us when we asked them here and through parliamentary control, Mr. Dinkov. They are still waiting, and in many places the rulers do not appear before them. Please pay attention to this, because we know what they were saying and what actually happened. We don't want any more of the same, and in more doses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u562	Thank you, Mr. Chenchev. Is there a third line? I won't. Here's your coat, dear Mr. Dinkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u563	Back and forth. Dear Mr. Chenchev, I was talking about the sector at all. I only mentioned that there are problems in Haskovo region with clean drinking water. Otherwise, the facts, the statistics I delivered, and when I talked about public financial resources, I talked about the whole country. Because we are talking about supporting the sector through the budget for solving the issues in the settlements where there are problems, an old, unchanged plumbing network with etheric pipes, problems with water supply and the construction of treatment plants is necessary, and there are many in the country. I have many examples, but the time for the duplicate is very small, and for speech to mention all the examples. To Mr. Genov, and Minister Avramova, I would say the following: last week, colleagues, in the National Assembly, we had a very long conversation and debate about air cleanness, that old cars mostly pollute in large cities, because in small towns the picture there is different. But for clean drinking water, in my opinion, there should also be such a conversation, because many settlements are affected by this problem, and people's health should be leading in our work. The question of clean drinking water is yet to come, I think. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u564	Are there any other statements? Mrs. Yankova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u565	Dear Madam President, ladies ministers, honourable Members of the House! Our attitude towards the budget of the Ministry of Regional Development and Public Works to a greater extent as a proposal was contained in art. 1. I am sorry, fellow Members, that you did not support the proposals, because looking at contrasts with regional development and what is like problems related to the edification of five major cities and in a polycentric version in other cities, in other places the state is going at reverse speed. Out of concern to make up for all this, we tried to offer two funds. Madam Minister, try the reserves and in a debate with the Council of Ministers to search, I will say again, I said in art. 1, You also have a targeted impact in the program and the creation of programs to solve specific regional problems. In the budget, however, you have no money for this. That's why we offered a fund of 300 million. Your colleagues rejected it because they had to respect party discipline, but there is a time during the year to find these solutions from the reserves. Secondly, we know that the third-class road network with the little money that will come from the toll, with its construction and with the ambition to upgrade the highway ring, the money is not enough. For this reason, we proposed in the capital of up to 650 million precisely for the third-class... and this was not accepted, unfortunately. Here I would like to address you: many policies for the development of the country are being developed in the Regional Ministry. The minister is new at the moment and I wish that in the Council of Ministers and with your support from the care of the state to receive more serious support in the policies that colleague Dinkov shared with the waters. Yes, many ministries are pronounced on water, but politics brings out the Minister of Regional Development. The policies related to landslides. There's one plus here, there's no denying it, about 180 million are for landslides and landslide processes, but we're sinking into state roads policies, except for the highway ring. Other financial instruments are possible here, too. It is not a coincidence that the Minister shares it and it is not a coincidence that we are preparing after 2020 to have no funds for it, but not only tol the system is enough. We have not seen here that other sectoral policies are being proposed. We therefore think that it is precisely the creation of such funds and of more modern thinking relating to regional development that is necessary. I will not stop repeating the question that you do not have an answer to at the moment, the minister also has no answer, as there is a political solution.. 2500 contracts stand for people from the housing blocks who have joined together, signed contracts with the mayors, with the district governors and by December 2016 they deposited them with the Bulgarian Development Bank. The minister of finance at first reading told us to think about other financial instruments that would not be fair, but these people have met the requirements. You say: who is first is first in law, but at the same time these people and the Association of Municipalities insist on a solution. For us this is a huge political niche for politics, but these are some people who have expectations and who are waiting for a solution. This is why we believe that the debate on the policies that brings out the Regional Ministry and the Road Infrastructure Agency and the Cadaster and with the Construction Supervision and Control, with the Geo-protection, these are policies for the modernisation of Bulgaria, the financial resources are not enough. We call on you to give more and more money to be given for regional policy in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u566	Thank you. [[Private applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? I won't. We're going to vote. Procedure? Here you go, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u567	Madam President, colleagues, ladies ministers! I have just called on you to invite both the ministers and colleagues from the ruling majority, and after 15 hours of half silence or saying anything or nothing, to protect their proposals here from the stand. You invited them, they didn't. Now that I look at the Chamber, I doubt that any of the government listens deeply to what our fellow Members are saying. And I wonder if like yesterday Mr. Shopov should be involved, who...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u568	Tell me the procedure, Mr. Chenchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u569	...as a good balance sheeter in parliament, to summon here for a concentrated work. That's just what I'm wondering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u570	Mr. Chenchev, I didn't understand your procedure. I think you may have abused a little. We're going to vote. I put to the vote the unsupported proposals. The first proposal is from the MPs Krum Zarkov, Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov. They voted 152 MPs: 52, against 73, abstention 27. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the next proposal, which belongs to the MP Nikolay Tishev, which is not supported by the Commission. They voted 154 MPs: 54, against 79, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. We are now voting on the Commission's proposal for art. 22. Vote 160 MPs: for 102, against 56, abstention 2. The motion is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u571	Under art. 23 has a proposal of the MPs Desislava Taneva and Irena Dimova: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23 the following amendments shall be made: 1. In the table in para. 1: (a) in point II (b) in point II 1 "Current expenditures' is replaced by "185 127,0" by "185 427,0"; (c) in item II 1.1 "Personal" is replaced by "107 369,9" is replaced by "107 669,9" is replaced by "107 669,9" is replaced by "107 369,9" is replaced by "107 369,9" is replaced by "2" is replaced by "2" is replaced by "2" is replaced by "2" is replaced by (d) in item III, "Budget relationships (transfers) ', the number (e) in item III "Budget relationships (transfers) ', p. 1 "Budgets' with the central budget (+/-) " (the number "S79 619,6') is replaced by "S79 919,6'. 2. In the table in para. 2: (a) in point 4 b) of row "Everything' is replaced by "Everything'; the number "Everything' is replaced by "Everyone's'. 3. In para. 5 the number..1 793 thousand. The amount of the aid referred to in point (a) of Article 1 (1) shall be calculated on the basis of the following formula: lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Tsvetan Borisov Topchiev: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 (a budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for 2019) I propose the following editorials: 1. In the Prosecution Table in Section III. "Budget relations (transfers) ": to be increased by 7 million lv. And the sum of.43 498.0 thousand. £50 498.0 thousand. lv. 2. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 2 The budget relations with other budgetary organisations shall: c. 2.1.1. (provided transfers to the SAA) to be increased by 3 million. lv. and the sum of "25 011,5 thousand." To become "28 011,5 thousand". lv. 3. In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1 of Section III "Budgets' with the central budget "supposed to be the sum of "79 619,6 thousand'. To become "89 619.6 thousand." BGN 4. In Section II To become a "199 884.0 thousand." lv. In Section "Executive expenses', point (a) is replaced by the following: 1.1. ==References=====External links==* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* "Further readings"* In point (a), point (a) is replaced by the following: 1.2.1. in Section "Costs" "Customs" and other current transfers for non-financial corporations. £21,000,0 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 (a budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry for 2019) We offer the following editorials: In Table "Instructions" in Section III. "Budget relations" /Transfers /: to be increased by 7 million levs; the sum of "43 498.0 thousand. £50 498.0 thousand. lv. of which: 2 Budget relations with other budgetary organisations. 2.1.1 /Suppended transfers to the SAA to be increased by 3 million, the sum of To become "28 011,5 thousand". lv. of which: 1 of Section III "Budgets' with the central budget "supposed to be the sum of "79 619,6 thousand'. To become "89 619.6 thousand." BGN In Section II To become a "199 884.0 thousand." lv. In Section "Executive expenses', point (a) is replaced by the following: The amount of the total amount of the total amount of the total amount of the financial contributions from the EFTA States to the general budget of the Union for the period from 1 January 2014 to 31 December 2020 shall be determined by the Commission on the basis of the information provided by the EFTA of which: 1.2.1 in the section of the "Costs" "Customs" and other current transfers for non-financial corporations. £21,000,0 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Cornelia Petrova Ninova and a group of MPs: H. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 the following amendments shall be made: 1. in Section I. "Accounts, benefits and donations": (a) of row 1. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 150000. (b) of row 1.2. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 350000. 2. in Section III. "Budget relationships (transfers) ": (a) in row III. The number of the budget relationships (transfers) is replaced by the number of the budget of the budget of the European Union. (b) in row 1. The reference budget budget budget budget is the number "79 619.6" is replaced by "126 619.6"; (c) of row 2. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from previous years until the end of the financial year. (d) of row 2.1. the number of transfers available at the time of the submission of the request shall be replaced by the number of transfers provided for in point (a) of Article 2 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 575/2013. (e) of row 2.1.1. The number is for the Agricultural Academy. ? -25 011,5? is replaced by? -92 011.6?? The Commission does not support the proposal. Proposal of the MP Yordan Kirilov Tsonev and a group of MPs: "1." In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) " (transmitters) " (to replace the number "43498.0 ") with the number " (to replace it with the number ") " (to replace it with the number ") " (to replace it with the number ") " (to replace it with the number ") " (to replace it with 2. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ". 2.1. et seq. 2.1.1. the number 3. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ". 2 the number..79 619.6. to be replaced by the number..89 4. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 Section II "Currents" of the number "Currents" of the number "Currents" of 192 884.0 " to be replaced by the number "Currents" of the number "Currents" of the number "Currents" of the number "Currents" 5. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 Section II the number "supplied' is replaced by the number "supplied'. 6. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 23, para. 1 Section II 1.2.1. the number..19,000,0 thousand. To be replaced by the number s 21 000,0 thousand. lv. The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 23.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u572	Thank you, dear Mrs. Angelova. You have the floor for procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u573	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My procedure is the way I conduct myself. On several occasions, colleagues from our parliamentary group have called on the ministers through you to take part in these debates, and they did not want to. We know it's their right. But, Mr. Chairman, I turn through you to the ministers themselves, present here: there is no need for them to become part of the interior of the National Assembly, but to feel free to go, somewhere they will probably be more useful.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u574	We continue with speeches. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u575	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is one of the leading state institutions that implements state policy aimed at all industries in the industry. It is compatible with a number of commitments to the European Union and has the most important role in the implementation of the common agricultural policy in Bulgaria. The funds provided for in the 2019 Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forests Project Budget will be difficult to guarantee the implementation of the Ministry's policies; the amount allocated to the 2019 Staff costs in the 2019 Project Budget will not allow for a 10% increase for all employees in the Ministry's system; the average levels of payment in a number of structures of the Ministry are significantly behind the average monthly salary of the employees under the labour and service. These are data from the National Statistical Institute. It should be borne in mind that the employees of the district, municipal structures....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... On the other hand, the employees of the control agencies, including the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency, engaged in sectors sensitive to society, receive extremely low pay, which is unacceptable for personnel with control functions. In the last three years alone, veterinarians have successfully eradicated a number of infectious diseases such as bluetongue, contagious dermatitis, influenza, and are currently struggling with African swine fever. Unreasonably, the low cost of their labor is a sign of diminishing and degrading their professional and expert potential, and the financial deficit and the high degree of uncertainty in the system is highly demotivating and leads to serious social tensions. Once again, workers, experts and specialists will be put to the test without the means necessary to increase wages, without the possibility of effective implementation of state policies and ensuring better social protection corresponding to the highly qualified staff serving farmers. The proposed change aims to increase staff costs, which will allow for an increase in wages in the structural units of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry. In the light of the above, Members, I call for you to support the proposals that have been made and to vote for................................................................................................ I would like one of the government to answer me why so little money is at stake, which is not even enough for a 10% increase in salaries in the budgetary sphere, as you promised? Perhaps Mr. Shopov is best to answer, because I see that he listens very carefully. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u576	Thank you, dear Mr. Topchiev. - What's the line? I can't see. Welcome to the next speech, Mr. Apostolov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u577	Dear Mr. Chairman, colleagues! The proposals we made from our parliamentary group are mainly linked to an increase in the budget of the Agricultural Academy. As you remember, colleagues, this year we made changes and made the Agricultural Academy a top executive of the budget. We have also made structural reforms that the Academy itself has wanted for a long time. So what? The budget funds currently provided for in the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, in particular for the Agricultural Academy, cover barely the salaries of those over or around 830 PhD students, specialists, professors and so on at the Academy. They do not even fully cover their salaries. It is necessary to update the budget of the Agricultural Academy during the calendar year with a number of decrees of the Council of Ministers in one or two months. This leads to nothing good, does not provide security and stability of the Academy and at the same time to the people working in it. How do we get these people to work for the Bulgarian practice, for the introduction of new varieties and hybrids and to protect the native ones in our fields by not providing them with funds for normal activity? In this regard, it is clear that the match has been played with the budget for this year, the pie is already divided. Colleagues, however, I appeal to all of you here, to think about and work together from the beginning of next year to change the practice of what is happening at the Agricultural Academy, because there is a simple saying: Perifazed through the prism of the Agricultural Academy, I'll explain why it is. This is also an element of national security. Dear colleagues, we are now almost 100% dependent on imported seeds and hybrids. The previous year many of you do not know, but then there was a structural redistribution of the areas for planting with springers in Bulgaria, because due to drought in France we were not provided enough seed for spring crops and had to redistribute areas, which leads to damage of crop rotations, to loss of resources for the country. In this regard, let us not reduce the activity of the people who work at the Academy. Let us be proud that our main varieties of Albena (Albena) and Ruse (424), such as hybrids, are at the heart of the common lines of the hybrids of. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u578	Thank you, Mr. Apostolov. - What's the line? I won't. Speaking, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u579	Dear Mr. President, honourable ministers who are not here, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the National Assembly! The Movement for Rights and Freedoms has several proposals to this year's budget in the part As short as possible, they are systematized in three main groups: resources for additional remuneration for the staff, funds for the Agricultural Academy, funds for the Urban and State Enterprise Agency. Colleagues, the 10% standard increase, which will take place in 2019, with this budget provided for the Work salary fund in the Ministry, does not even cover this increase, first. Secondly, much of the Ministry's staff is working on the hardest part, on the front line of relations with farmers. These are the municipal agriculture and forestry services, these are the control bodies of the Food Safety Agency. People who provide control over the quality and safety of the food we eat should not stand on minimum wages, because otherwise no control on their part can be relied on. The next feather we offer and insist on increasing is the funds for the Agricultural Academy. The colleague Apostolov talked about it, I think the colleague Bachvarova will talk too. I won't repeat my colleagues. The Agricultural Academy is our institute, which has worked for many years, which has very solid footage, many habilitated persons. Unfortunately, due to the lack of funds, from year to year these habilitated persons leave the professors, docs, and the level of Bulgarian agricultural science falls. With some three million leva, which is what our proposal is to support the Agricultural Academy in more ways, I think this would in no way violate the budget balance for 2019. The next feather we propose to increase the funds is in the Agency for the Fight against hails. This is also a chronically underfunded sector, for years underfunded. As a result, you are all witness to the damage our farmers have suffered from hails. There was a promise from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry that for 2019 it will expand the sites for protection from the urban clouds. This thing needs an extra resource, colleagues. In my opinion, if we do not support the increase in this budget, this nice initiative that the Ministry has had will not be achieved and we will remain with the same territories that have been protected this year. Another two million we predict and demand to be added to the budget of the "Irrigation systems".. also a chronically underfunded company, which, apart from feeding water to farmers, has an inefficient function to protect against the harmful effects of water. This is a nationwide, generally useful activity, which is also not funded. Unfortunately, we think of her once we flood, both in Biser and in other parts of the country, and then we look for options to get out of the situation with much more resource than we foresee here. What we offer as a total increase in these three or four feathers, colleagues, is not more than 10 million leva. I think for a budget within 100 billion, 10 million is a drop in the sea. [[Noise and lines.]] Here my tone becomes minority, colleagues, as we had such a proposal last year. At this late hour, it is clear to me that no one hears again and yet no one understands what this is about. I don't want to have this conversation after another flood and after another episode, animal diseases, don't give yourself a god to humans. Thank you. [[Applause and cheering "Bravo!" by "BSP for Bulgaria" and "DPS."]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u580	Thank you, dear Mr. Abase. - What's the line? I can't see. Next statement Professor Bachvarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u581	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Unprecedented is the case with the Budget Act of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry, because all parliamentary groups have put forward proposals for its increase. The reason is the understanding that it is insufficient and cannot provide funds to implement not only the operational but also the control activities of the Ministry. The proposal we are making, firstly, is for the increase of funds for the Fund. The proposal is that they be increased by 5 million. Why? Because there are structures and agencies at the Ministry, where the wage is close to the minimum level. The agency "City Fight" has an average salary of 610 BGN, with 100 people being forgotten, appointed to the Ministry in the middle of the year. In the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency the average wage is 840 BGN. There is no point in explaining what functions they perform and how important these control functions are for the health of all consumers in Bulgaria. Agricultural Academy has an average salary of 813 BGN. What is envisaged in the budget is an increase of 10% on the average wage, but the funds will not be enough for a 10% increase, because provided that 50% of the employees in these structures are on minimum wage, they will accumulate an extremely large resource. [[Noise and lines.]] We also propose that capital costs be increased. In budget 2018... I really can't talk, honestly. [[Noise and lines.]] I know no one cares about the Ministry's budget, but I'm asking for your attention!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u582	Colleagues, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u583	It's about people who work in these structures. The Agricultural Academy employs 2,500 people, over 2,000 are in BABBH. Maybe they want to hear what I have to offer. Apparently, there's no interest, no empathy. [[Executing noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u584	Colleagues on the right and on the left, please remain silent, take your seats. It's not long till the end of the session. Be understanding.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u585	I would like to draw attention to the capital expenditure of 7 million. $700,000. for the entire Ministry. When budget 2018 was adopted, it was said that these funds will be used for accredited laboratories of the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. Now that there's a case, we carry samples in France, Ireland, everywhere because we don't have labs. This did not happen in 2018. In 2019, there are no promises in this direction, but if we do not have accredited laboratories, we are all screwed up in terms of food security in the country. We cannot guarantee the health of Bulgarian consumers in the absence of such laboratories. It's a farm academy. April, a change in the Agricultural Academy Act was adopted. In the financial justification of this law, it was stated that because the Academy was being reorganised, it had to be granted 10 million. lv. for restructuring. It didn't happen in any form. At present, the responsibilities of the Agricultural Academy are over 3 million. lv. The budget offered is 24 million. Five hundred thousand. Only the Academy's salary is 28 million. Explain, you start with 20 million beginning of 2018. How will these people work, provided that the average wages are one of the lowest and 50% of the staff will be on the minimum salary of 560 BGN?! In conclusion, I would like to say the following. Seeing agriculture so lightly, those working in this sector doesn't surprise me. After all, however, all of you are consumers and for all of you the Ministry and the control authorities have commitments to implement must be well funded. Thank you. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u586	Thank you, dear Professor Bachvarova. - What's the line? Here's your speech, Mr. Georgiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u587	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I was going to say: Dear ministers. I am a member of the Committees on Environment and Agriculture, but, unfortunately, both ministers who wanted to hear what I said and will say are gone. The topic of agricultural policy and the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is extremely important and indeed the Minister had to be here to hear what is being said in the Chamber. When French statesmen visit the shops and if they see that between 10 and 20% of the products are not French, they immediately take urgent measures, i.e. 80. 90% of them are French agricultural products. Unfortunately, between 80 and 90% of agricultural production has been imported in recent years. The budget offered to us by the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Forestry is almost nothing different from last year's budget, except for those funds that will compensate for the increase of the minimum wage from BGN 510 to BGN 560. Colleagues before me have spoken about the minimum funds for which employees work in the sector of Agriculture, especially secondary officers. There the salaries are almost minimum, they even say they're somewhere below it. As a country rich in agricultural land, fertile soils and various agro-climatic conditions, Bulgaria has huge agricultural potential, which unfortunately today is not the effective productive sector in the Bulgarian economy. According to data from the National Statistical Institute historically, since we are a member of the European Union, Bulgaria has entered unprecedented amounts of financial resources over 12 billion. lv. At the same time, if we look at the value added demand in the sectors....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... What does that mean? Huge funds, but the value added curve is going down. That means two things: either the money was stolen or it didn't go according to purpose, that is, there is no added value. Not for nothing two weeks ago, I quoted Vidin, where I saw three stadiums built with funds from the Rural Development Programme. What added value do these stadiums carry? And they're not only in Vidin, they're in many places across the country. What added value? No added value! According to the Institute for Economic Research at the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences in relation to the lack of value added, Bulgaria has lost over 10 billion funds and over 500,000 jobs. That is, the budget that is being offered to us today is the same as last year. Bulgaria will therefore be last as an agricultural country in the European Union. A reformation of the agricultural policy is needed, which is now a conventional policy; a policy that is currently for monocultural production, what is distorted as a philosophy of agriculture. Not for nothing, according to data from the National Statistical Institute 6%, these are the so-called agroligars in Bulgaria, taking over 75% of the funds. That is why we need a new agricultural policy -- a policy for food production -- a policy that needs to be addressed to small and medium-sized farmers. It is only a matter of time before the maturity of public awareness is that the means for small farmers really are what they deserve. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u588	Thank you, Mr. Georgiev. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. I'm closing the debate. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal of the MPs Desislava Taneva and Irena Dimova. They voted 175 MPs: for 82, against 3, abstention 90. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Tsvetan Topchiev. Vote 182 MPs: 74, against 48, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the unsupported proposal of the Parliamentary Representative Yordan Apostolov and a group of MPs. Vote 181 MPs: 83 against 3, abstention 95. The offer is not accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u589	Dear Mr. Chairman, I request a re-vote. I think five people from the United Patriarchs didn't vote. I'm very interested in how Mr. Pavel Shopov voted. I guess she's in shape and she'll come out and explain her voice. Five MPs from the United Patriarchs have not supported the proposal of the parliamentary group itself! I'm asking for a re-vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u590	I understand you want a re-vote, Mr. Stoinev. I am putting forward the unsupported proposal that we have just voted on. Vote 181 MPs: 80 against 27, abstention 74. The offer is not accepted. [[Applause and applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.]] Dear Members of Parliament, you are disturbing the work of the National Assembly, if you understand what I mean. I put to the vote the proposal of MP Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, which is not supported by the Commission. Vote 188 MPs: for 74, against 103, abstention 11. The offer is not accepted. I put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. Vote 189 MPs: 75, against 74, abstention 40. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 23, which is supported by the Commission. Vote 187 MPs: 117 against 70 abstentions. The offer is accepted.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u591	Under art. 24 there is a proposal of the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs: In Article 1, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: 24 the following changes are made: (a) In para. The following changes shall be made in Section II "Costs' and Section III "Budget relationships (transfers) ': - in para. Section II of Section II, the number?267 226,3? is replaced by the number?275 226,3? - in para. 1, Section II, row 1.2., the number - in para. 1, Section II, row 1.2.1., the number - in para. 1 Section II, row 1.2.1.1. the number - in para. Section III of Section III of Section III of Annex I to Regulation (EU) No 1151/2012 is replaced by the following: - in para. 1 Section III, row 1. the number..144 (b) In para. 2 the following changes are made: - in row 1, the number - in line "Everything' is replaced by the The Commission does not support the proposal. The Commission shall support the text of the importer for art. 24.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u592	Thank you. Statements? You have the floor, Mr. Letifov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u593	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, the proposal that we have made with our colleagues under art. 24 under the budget of the Ministry of Transport is an increase in the subsidy, which we have later reflected in art. 49, for non-profitable lines in inland and transport in mountain and other regions by 5 million. lv. We have also increased the grant of National Company Railway Infrastructure by 22 million. lv. to cover the increase of the minimum wage. We have proposed an increase in the capital transfer for National Company Railway Infrastructure by 17 million. lv. and we have proposed the increase of the capital transfer of BDZ by 7 million. lv. As proposed by the Ministry of Transport's budget and, in particular, in its section on rail transport, it once again shows that this transport is not a priority for the state, it is not a priority for the government for another year. That's the way it was last time, that's the way it was the last time. Hello, Minister. [[The Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Rosen Zhelyazkov enters the hall.]] What is more interesting is that while rail transport is developing throughout Europe, it subsidises stubbornly, budget funds and any resource to develop, while it occupies about 10. 12% of the passenger transport, in Bulgaria it is 2%. While we are listening to how long we will wait for BDZ as a 130-year-old company to fail, of course, as if we expect this end, everywhere in Europe they invest in this type of transport. What we have proposed here is too modest to cover the costs of increasing the minimum wage that are not foreseen and some very small increases for transfers. The other one that we have proposed and is reflected below in art. 96, this is the money we are talking about in another year the expected, of course, from the concession at Sofia airport to be explicitly written to go in the direction of the state railway and to cover above all the obligations it has. About 200 million. lv. BDZ has to the state budget, there are about 100 million more to the National Railway Infrastructure Company. The duties there are serious. The Commission has also not supported this year's proposal which we have, and it is also reasonable in the interest of the development of this transport. Why? Because it is the most ecological because it is the safest transport for now, and for some Bulgarian citizens it remains the only way to move. And we have to say that this is a priority. Yes, this is a topic that needs to be developed, and these problems need to be solved, rather than looking at another year and another Minister of Transport's show how to deal with BDZ. Well, he won't be able to get better if we don't say we're looking at this particular industry as a priority. I therefore hope that you will reconsider and support this proposal. It is in the interests of the country and the company. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u594	Thank you, dear Mr. Letifov. - What's the line? I can't see. You have the floor, Mr. Tishev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u595	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am pleased as a representative of the Transport Committee that you are at least here. Your two colleagues just left. It is good that at the end of the debate there is still a minister with us. I will also take account of one of the subsidies allocated through the budget of the Ministry of Transport, but it is not about NRIC or BDZ, but about the subsidy amounting to 28 million. lv. and goes to compensate for intra-urban or sub-urban transports to hard-to-reach mountain areas. Every year we talk, we comment, we propose that this subsidy increase significantly because there is a similar need. After all, there is a negligible little compensation that, of course, cannot satisfy us. It is clear that this transport, these transports are not profitable and are not of interest to small carriers and not only because in small settlements, underpopulated, difficult to access, this subsidy is therefore granted. But these transportations have yet another meaning, apart from their primary purpose, they also have a social function, because part of the people in these small towns is the only chance to connect with the surrounding world. And one more thing - because of the demographic crisis in Bulgaria more and more municipalities enter the column or appear in the situation of hard-to-reach areas, as the population in the villages declines, the companies carrying out transport are at a loss. What are they doing? Instead of four, they do two courses a day. However, this is a problem because it limits the access of people who live in small towns, to the district and municipal center, that is, they are limited to access to social service, to health care, to education, if you will, to work opportunities. Our thesis and our proposal is that this subsidy for compensation of transportation to mountain areas or hardly accessible areas should be spread to all municipalities in Bulgaria. It's $30 million. lv. There is hardly anyone in this room who doubts that they are a problem for this budget, and this amount can solve a few problems. Unfortunately, as often or usually happens, we talk, propose, discuss, ultimately, however, these proposals remain as a voice in the desert, as is the case here. Thank you. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u596	Thank you, Mr. Tishev. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? You have the floor, dear Mr. Svilensky.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u597	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. One extension procedure [[Elevator bell dings]] the time to look at the budget until the adoption of § 24 by vote. Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Minister, really, thank you for coming. I would also be happy if you could take a look at the transport budget, as so far none of your colleagues have taken a stand, stood in this place and listened, without being clear...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u598	That's not true.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u599	With the exception of the Minister of Education, everyone else stood and watched. [[Radio.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u600	Mr. Svilensky, may I interrupt? Did you make a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u601	Yeah, and I started a speech after that.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u602	Let us vote on the procedural proposal. I'm voting on Mr. Svilensky's procedural proposal. Vote 154 MPs: 126, against 20, abstention 8. The motion is accepted. Here you are, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u603	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! First, the problems that Mr. Letifov put in their proposals to increase the BDZ subsidy, as well as the subsidy for hard-to-reach areas, should be taken seriously by the government, as the amounts currently recorded are extremely insufficient. We have also placed this on the budget review in the Transport Commission. Mr. Minister, I expected the Ministry of Transport to protect a higher budget. If you offer such an increase here, we will support you. However, it is not clear in the budget what is going on with both CTV and SSB. We talked about legislative changes by the end of the year. If these legislative changes happen, there is no money in the budget. That is to say, you continue to assign tasks to these companies and continue to make sure that there is no money in the budget for these companies and that they do not pay the debts accordingly. Because of the incident that happened in Kresna, I assume you've resorted again to the services of these railway companies. Regarding the concession of Sofia airport, for a third year in a row, although the budget will then be about it, for a third year in a row you are trying to record some money that is not really there, which will not actually occur, and you are simply forming an excess of 500 million. lv. You have continued twice the deadline for submitting documents, probably the concession will not end within the next year, but also in view of the end of the government and coming to the next government of BSP, we have clearly stated that we will cancel this concession and that this money from the concession will not occur either in the Ministry of Transport or in the budget. My request is for this money to be dropped from the budget and when the concession takes place, then to be provided where it belongs, not for a third year to write 550 million. lv. Officially, they're gone. You just write down some money that doesn't go into the budget, and then you report it as a surplus and spend it probably on other things. Regarding road transport and the Executive Agency, it has become clear in recent months that the amount of salaries they receive in this agency is extremely low and your employees from this agency are very quickly redirected to the new police. What measures will you take to keep your employees, because your agency must have it, must perform its functions, replaced by the Car Transport Act, but nothing is seen in action in the direction of a budget from keeping your employees with a raise in wages or in any other way, given the almost double the salaries offered by the other ministry in the so-called police department? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-11-28.u604	Thank you, dear Mr. Svilensky. - What's the line? I can't see. Any other speeches? I can't see. We're putting an end to this debate. I will put to the vote the Commission's unsupported proposal by the MP Yordan Tsonev and a group of MPs. They voted 161 MPs: 57 against 83, abstention 21. The offer is not accepted. I shall put to the vote the text of the importer for art. 24, supported by the Commission. They voted 165 MPs: for 106, against 59, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. The next regular meeting is on 29 November 2018 at 9.00 in accordance with the adopted Work Programme. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
