ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u1	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen! [[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Dear colleagues, I will read to you the National Assembly Work Programme for the period 19 September 2018. As a first point we propose a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2016 and a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2017. The point was postponed on a proposal from the MP for this week. The second point is the First Voting of the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, continuation. Third item.. First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Fourth point.. First vote on the Draft Law for amendment and supplement to the Public Procurement Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Fifth "First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Personal Data Protection Act. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Sixth proposal "First vote on the Draft Law on Amendment and Supplement to the Law on Protection of Classified Information. Once again, the Council of Ministers is importing. The seventh item, which will be the first item for Thursday, 20 September 2018, is: Projects of decisions on personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria. Importer is the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. Honourable Members, we have three proposals tabled by the Prime Minister. Unfortunately, we still don't have a signed decree from the president. If by tomorrow we get a decree signed by the President, we will consider all three proposals. If, unfortunately, it does not work, we will consider only the two proposals that are not related to the issuing of a decree by the President. The eighth point or second for Thursday is: First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Vocational Education and Training. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The ninth point of the Programme, item 3 for Thursday, is: First vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Family Aid Act for Children. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Tenth item, item four for Thursday, is: First vote on the Law on Enterprises of the Social and Solidar Economy. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The 11th point, as point 1 for Friday, is: Annual Report of the State Commission on Security of Information on the overall status of the protection of classified information in the Republic of Bulgaria in 2017. The report is confidential. Importer is the Council of Ministers. Twelveth point of the Programme Project is: Parliamentary control. I vote on the draft programme for the work of the National Assembly for the period 19 September 2018. Please vote. They voted 173 MPs: for 151, against none, abstention 22. The proposal for a Programme for the National Assembly's work has been adopted. Draft and draft resolutions from 12 to 18 September 2018: - A bill amending the Currency Act, importing is the Council of Ministers, leading the Committee on Budget and Finance, is also assigned to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; - A bill to amend and supplement the Food Act, importers are Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs, leading the Committee on Agriculture and Food, as well as allocated to the Committee on Economic Policy and Tourism; - Draft decision of the National Assembly to oblige the Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria Boyko Borisov to express Bulgaria's position against sanctions against Hungary in the Council of the European Union, importers are Veselin Mareshki and a group of MPs, is assigned to the European Affairs and Control Committee of the European Funds and the Foreign Policy Committee; - Draft decision to announce the town of Dobrich and the city of Tutrakan for the town of Bulgarian military fame.The importers are Plamen Manushev and a group of MPs, assigned to the Committee on Defence and to the Committee on Regional Policy, Public Works and Local Government; - Projects of solutions for personal changes in the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Bulgaria, importer is the Council of Ministers. By letter dated 18 September 2018, the Commission informed the European Parliament and the Council of its decision to initiate the procedure laid down in Article 108 (2) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. No 802-03-11 The Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria informed the National Assembly that on the basis of art. 84, p. 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria withdraws its submission on 12 September 2018. Draft decision on personal changes to the Council of Ministers, brought to the National Assembly by No 802-03-10. The letter was sent to the MPs of their service e-mails. On 14 September 2018, a Report on the cash implementation of the consolidated fiscal programme for the first half of 2018, adopted by Decision No 655 of the Council of Ministers of 2018. By letter of the President of the National Assembly, the report was sent to the Committee on Budget and Finance and was available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Another message: The National Statistical Institute has received information on inflation and consumer price indexes for August 2018, 2018. The material is available to the MPs in the Library of the National Assembly. Dear Members of the National Assembly, we continue with the first point of the Programme, and this is: REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE ACTION OF THE COURTS IN 2016 AND A REPORT ON THE APPLICATION OF THE LAW AND THE ACTION OF THE COURTS IN 2017 Opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mr. Kirilov, are you going to present the opinion? [[Noise and lines.]] Before that, there is a procedure, Mr. Kirilov, excuse me. Procedure, Mr. Tsonev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u2	Dear Mr. Chairman, last week we postponed the point because the President of VCC Lozan Panov did not find the time to come here, as the other two big ones did, and I believe that if this condition is not met, we have no reason, and you too, to give this point a move. My procedure is until the point is delayed. [[Heckling]] If it's here, it means access, and then read the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u3	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Mr. Kirilov, come in. I assume you'll be making the procedural offer of admission?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u4	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members, I am making a procedural proposal for admission to the Chamber of the Supreme Court of Cassation Mr. Lozan Panov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u5	Come back, Mr. Shopov. [[Noise and lines, raging.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u6	It's similar to what I did a few days ago. I think that in all these years of democracy, from the beginning of the changes to this point on, we should have been constitutionally, institutionally aware of who is who in the country, who represents who and who we need here. Some are very severely mistaken that if Lozan Panov comes, uncomfortable questions will be asked, he will be troubled, he will be taken into custody, and some in this room think that the whole conspiracy that is being carried out will be revealed, for crushing the judiciary as well, as has been done in many other guidelines in the Bulgarian political, social and institutional life. That's not true, fellow Members! He'll be happy to come. He'll come here to legitimize him to legitimize him as first among the judges, as chief of the judiciary, as a man in charge of all the courts. There's no such thing! This legend has been created to him for several years and it largely embraces both your minds and your vision. Including those who are his opponents here, who expose him, are also lying that with his coming, poisonous arrows will be made to him and will be exposed all this group, which, on behalf of foreign NGOs and foreign forces, was trying to crush the Bulgarian judges and subjugate them. Dear colleagues, he has played his part under the Law on the Judiciary and according to the Constitution in the summary of reports from the districts, from the districts, from the appeals courts, from the Supreme Court of Cassation. He did this work and provided the information in the Supreme Judicial Council. Here are representatives of the Supreme Judicial Council - people like the sun, lawyers from the highest level, people who are responsible and competent to give us the report on the state of the courts.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u7	Thank you, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u8	Therefore, the person in question does not need to enter the Chamber, to legitimize it and, again, I say, once again, which the media and politicians have done so many times, and, if you will, and the Minister of Justice Mrs. Tsacheva at some point entered this role. I propose that we do not support this proposal for its call in plenary so that we can legitimise it for what it is not.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u9	Thank you, Mr. Shopov. I put to the vote the procedural proposal made by the MP Danail Kirilov for admission in the Chamber. Please vote. Vote 160 MPs: 151 against 4, abstention 5. The offer is accepted. The Quaestors, please invite Mr. Panov to the Chamber. Dear Mr. Kirilov, please present the Report of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u10	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! "COMMODITY" on the Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of the Courts in 2016, No 711-00-4, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2017, and the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of the Courts in 2017, No 830-00-3, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 30 May 2018. In its meeting held on 25 July 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs examined the Report on the Implementation of the Law and the Activity of the Courts in 2016, No 711-00-4, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2017, and the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of the Courts in 2017, No 830-00-3, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 30 May 2018. The meeting was attended by the Supreme Court of Cassation: Mr. Lozan Panov "President of the Supreme Court of Cassation," and Mrs. Rosa Georgieva "Head of Cabinet." The reports on the implementation of the Law and the activities of the courts were presented by Mr. Lozan Panov, who outlined data on the activities of the judiciary, the judicial map, the building fund, the judiciary administration and emphasized on the uneven workload by districts in the country. He summarized that for 2016 the number of all cases to be dealt with in the judicial system, except those at the Supreme Court of Cassation, was 634 239 and for 2017 their number was 682 130. Mr. Panov added that in 2016. 455 384 cases were closed in substance and in 2017 those acts were 493 812. The suspension of proceedings in 2016 was 77,758, and for 2017, their number was 79,477, and at the end of 2016 had 101,097 pending cases and in 2017 their number was 108,841. Mr. Panov pointed out that there was a slight increase in the number of cases in the period considered. As regards the work of the courts, it was noted that in the district courts of the district centres the number of judges in 2016 was 655, with the total number of cases examined by them being 359 745. For 2017, the number of judges in the district courts of the district centres is 659, including 392 062 cases. In the other district courts, the number of judges is 341 Judges for 2016 and 336 Judges for 2017, respectively, and the total number of cases they have dealt with is 139 291 for 2016 and 157 897 cases for 2017. Mr. Panov explained that the number of cases in question by the district courts between the two consecutive years has increased by 13.36 per cent. As regards the work of the district courts, it was stated that in 2016 the number of judges was 777 and in 2017 their number was 774. During that period, the district judges had 116 722 cases in 2016 and 113 270 cases in 2017. Of the total number of cases examined in 2016, 81 380 were civil, and 35 342 were criminal, with this ratio being 77 162 civil proceedings and 36 108 criminal cases in 2017. 17 623 cases dealt with the appeals courts in 2016, with 13 994 closing a judgment in substance, 815 proceedings were suspended and 2814 pending. Of the cases examined by the Courts of Appeal, 13 286 are civil proceedings and 4337 are criminal. In 2017, the cases examined by these courts were 18 255, of which 14 238 ended with a legal act in substance, 836 were suspended and 3136 were pending at the end of the year. The data show that in 2017 there was an increase in the number of cases dealt with by the Courts of Appeal compared to 2016 by 3,59 per cent. As regards military courts, references show that 17 judges worked in the military courts in 2016 and 2017, respectively, in 2016 and 646 in 2017. The data thus presented reveal that the average workload of district courts in the district centres in 2016 was 52.9 cases per month and for 2017. 57.6 shares per month. For district courts outside district centres, the average workload is 37,47 cases per month per judge for 2016 and 44,34 cases per month for 2017. On this basis the most busy is the Sofia District Court with 69,73 cases per month for 2016 and 79,39 cases per month for 2017. In the district courts, data show that the average workload in 2016 was 14.9 cases per month per judge and for 2017. .14,41 cases. At the same time, the workload of the Sofia City Court was 34,09 cases for 2016 and 30,97 cases per month for 2017. At the same time, the data revealed that the district courts in Targovishte, Kardzhali, Vratsa and Montana dealt with on average 7 cases per month in 2016 and 2017. Have the colleagues from Targovishte, Kardzhali, Vratsa and Montana heard and understood this? The average workload of the appeals courts in 2016 is 9,33 cases per month and 9,65 cases per month for 2017. At the same time, the workload of the judges at the Sofia Court of Appeal is 13,22 cases per month for 2016 and 14,17 cases per month for 2017. The least charged are the Special Court of Appeal, which accounts for 2,98 cases per month for 2016 and 3,30 cases per month for 2017. At the same time, the workload of the Court of Appeal is 1.78 cases per month in 2016 and 1,24 cases per month for 2017. In order to improve the work of the courts in 2016 and 2017, both the uniform distribution of cases and the number of officers in the courts relative to the workload of the court concerned, taking into account the specifics of the individual units. The ratio of the judiciary to the number of magistrates in 2016 for district courts in district centres is 2.8 administrative employees of one judge and 2.83 for 2017. For the Sofia District Court, this coefficient is 3.17 for 2016 and 3.15 for 2017. In other district courts outside the district centres, this proportion is 3,98 for 2016 and 4,04 for 2017. The average proportion of this indicator for district courts is 1.97 administrative employees of one judge for 2016 and 1.98 administrative officers of one judge for 2017. For the appeals courts, this ratio is changed from 1.32 for 2016 to 1.28 for 2017, with data showing that 1.14 judicial officers work with one magistrate for 2016 and 1.04 for 2017. At the same time in the Court of Appeal in 2016 and 2017 the ratio is two employees of one magistrate. Another priority for securing the work of the court is given to the provision of an appropriate building fund and its management. In 2016 and 2017 solutions to the issue of building security of the District Court are sought. Karlovo, the shortage of judicial offices in the Court of Justice in Sofia, the Appeals Court..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... The buildings of the District Court of Lovech, District Court of Pleven, and District Court of Kardzhali need renovation and repairs. With regard to the work of the Supreme Court of Cassation Mr. Panov pointed out that 110 judges were working in it in 2016 and 2017. In 2016, the cases in the Supreme Court of Cassation were 9902 and in 2017 the number was 9802. The total number of cases received and proceedings brought in the previous year was 14087 for 2016 and 14 018 cases for 2017, while the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation added that there was a permanent trend towards a gradual reduction of the functions of the Supreme Judges as instant control and their focus on uniformity of the judicial practice. In 2016, the Supreme Court of Cassation initiated 12 interpretation cases and ruled 13 interpretation decisions and decrees. For 2017, interpretation cases were 24 and 13 interpretation decisions were given. In 2016 there are 32 judges in the penal college of the Supreme Court of Cassation, and in 2017 their number is 27. The total number of examination proceedings in 2016 was 1638 and in 2017 it was 1637. In 2016, the proceedings were completed in 1352, and in 2017. 1317. For 2016, the cases closed within 3 months are 86.27 per cent. In 2017, the cases closed within one month were 52,71 per cent and the cases closed within two months were 18,40 per cent. In private proceedings, the percentage is 88,58 per cent in one month and 10.05 per cent in two months. The Court of Justice of the Supreme Court of Cassation in 2016 had 57 judges working, with 51 judges due to changes in the staff of the College at the end of the year. In 2017, their number was 48 judges. The total number of cases to be dealt with in 2016, including cassation and private proceedings, is 7859 pieces. In 2017, the cases at issue by the civil college were 7922. Of this number, the completed civil proceedings for 2016 were 5087 pieces and 5289 pieces for 2017. In 2016 cases 93,54 per cent were closed within a 3-month period and in 2017 there were a minor number of cases. In the trade college in 2016 are employed 22 supreme judges and in 2017 their number is 21. The total number of cases involving cassation and private proceedings for consideration was 4590 for 2016 and 4459 for 2017. The commercial proceedings completed in 2016 were 3463 and in 2017. 3196. The data show that for 2016 83.22 per cent of the acts the Commercial College was awarded within 3 months and the ratio was similar for 2017. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev and Krum Zarkov. Mr. Zarkov drew attention to the legislative proposals found in the reports and raised the issue of the interaction between the three authorities with regard to the legislative process. Mr. Panov pointed out that proposals are sent to the Ministry of Justice, which are due to the work of the meetings of the Plenum of the Supreme Judicial Council, which summarizes the work and interacts with the committees to it and, above all, with the Committee on Legal and Institutional Affairs and the Committee on Judicial Card, Loading and Judicial Statistics of the Judicial College. In response to the finding made by Mr. Panov, Mr. Kirilov pointed out that the reason for the large number of changes in legislation in 2016 and 2017 is the desire of the legislative body to strictly comply with the implementation of the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism plan and the commitments it has made. He added that legislative changes aim at creating a more favourable environment for the work of the judiciary and overcoming imbalances and clarified that always in its work the Commission on Legal Affairs provides and will ensure a broad presence of all those who have expressed their willingness to take part in the legislative process. As a result of the vote held, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 18 votes for abstentions and non-restraints adopted a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2016, No 711/04, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 31 May 2017, and a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2017, No 830-00-3, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council on 30 May 2018 and proposed to the National Assembly to adopt draft decisions on them with the following wording: Project! DECISION on the adoption of a Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of the Courts in 2016 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activity of the Courts in 2016 Project! DECISION adopting a Report on the application of the law and the activities of the courts in 2017 The National Assembly on the basis of art. 86, para. 1 in relation to art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 30, para. 2, p. 11 of the Law on the Judiciary HAS DECIDED Adopts the report on the implementation of the law and on the activities of the courts in 2017
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u11	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Dear Mr. Panov, you have the floor to present the reports to the MPs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u12	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! First of all, I would like to exhaust the topic of disrespect for the institutions, because a week ago, the more sensitive of you accepted my non-respect for the Bulgarian Parliament. Yes, institutions must respect each other. They should be honored mostly because they inspire a life of law. For two years, as I will present the 2016 report today, I expect this invitation from the National Assembly. Last week, I received a phone call the day before the scheduled meeting. I replied in writing in the hope that I would be properly understood that its form of communication is not admissible, but yesterday I was again invited on the phone for today's meeting. I'm probably the last to know that phone calls have long replaced the epistola form of communication between the legislature and the judiciary. For explainable reasons, I have no idea how much the distance between the authorities in Bulgaria has been reduced. Although I do not consider the new forms of communication acceptable, I have come here to fulfill my legal obligations and to present the Report of the Courts for 2016 and 2017, but I did so with the feeling that today we fully legitimately legitimize a low institutional form of communication.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u13	Please, Mr. Panov, present the reports. You'll have an opportunity somewhere else...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u14	I believe that compliance with the rules of communication is at the heart of the authority of each institution. Analysis of major problems. In accordance with the norms of art. 84, p. 16 of the Constitution of the Republic of Bulgaria and art. 115, para. 2 of the Judicial Law I present the current reports to your attention for 2016 and 2017. They have been drawn up by me, and they have been adopted by the generalized statistical tables on the activities of the courts for the two years. The tables for the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation are also presented for 2016 and 2017. All annual reports of the units of the judicial system are presented on the websites of the relevant courts. The active publication of information about courts is in line with the rules of the Law on Access to Public Information, including annual reports. In this way, the public has access to the pages of the relevant courts and allows in detail to follow the work of each judicial authority, thereby expressing their views on the work of each court. First of all, it should be noted that the main problems in the activities of the courts in the country should be analysed. First of all, we owe the Bulgarian judges recognition of their work in the last two years and their exceptional activity in the activities carried out in 2017. For the first time since their regulation in the Law on the Judiciary, direct elections to complete the professional quota of the College of the Supreme Judicial Council. Despite the many concerns related to the conduct of these elections, the judges in Bulgaria gave a clear sign that the judges' self-government is not only hollow, a banal phrase, but a tool for self-regulation of the system. We also owe recognition to the Members who were elected by the General Assembly of Judges as members of the Election Commission and the Selection Committees. With regard to legislation. When we are talking about the new amendments to the Law on the Judiciary relating to the completion of the composition of the Supreme Judicial Council, we should note that in 2017 for the first time a case of complaint against a decision of the Election Commission for the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council from the quota of judges case No 34/2017 of a five-member Chamber appointed in accordance with art. 29n, para. 4 in relation to art. 29 C.E., al. 4 of the Law on the Judiciary. This complaint showed serious deficiencies in the Law on the Judiciary in the regulation of the procedure and the procedure in which it must be dealt with. It is therefore important, through the Report, which I present to your attention and is submitted to the National Assembly, that you be called as MPs to fill in the available gaps in the Law on the Judiciary. The only norm in the Law on the Judiciary relating to this legal proceedings is art. 29n. According to Al. 4, the decision of the electoral commission announcing the outcome of the election shall be subject to appeal within 7 days of its announcement to the composition under art. 29d, para. 4 namely three judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation and two of the Supreme Administrative Court established on the principle of random selection. In para. 5 Says that the complaint is filed through the relevant College of the Supreme Judicial Council, which sends the entire file of the composition under para. 4. The composition according to para. 6 shall examine the appeal at an open hearing, calling on the parties and a representative of the electoral committee and giving a decision within 14 days, which shall be final. Those texts do not specify, according to the description of which of the two Supreme Courts the case is being brought, how the rapporteur is determined under it and which procedural order is the proceedings under the Civil Procedure Code, under the Administrative Procedure Code or under another order. Another legal change was made in 2017. In my opinion, it has caused problems in its implementation and hindering the execution by the courts of its main obligations for the publicity of the judicial acts rendered. Following the entry into force on 5 November 2017, of changes in the PPC, in particular art. 616 para. 2 and para. 7 of the PPC and Art. 64, para. 1 and 2 of the SEW........................................................................................................................... The main question on which the texts do not give an answer is: when an appeal/protest is given, a court order which imposes an effective penalty on the defendant, when is the act published on the day of the appeal/protest or when the appeal/protest period expires? After the unsuccessful effort to reach a unanimous interpretation of the standards of the SPC and the SEW and after a joint meeting of the Committee on Legal and Institutional Affairs and the Commission, a decision of the SJC's plenary was adopted by a protocol of 1 February 2018. It reads: "To request an authentic interpretation by the legislator on the application of art. 616 para. 2 and para. 7 of the PPC and Art. 64, para. 1 and para. 2 of the SEW......................................................................................................................... A question has been asked about this matter to the National Assembly. The decision of the plenary has been sent to the President of the National Assembly, but no authentic interpretation has been received until the presentation of these reports. In fact, the big question is: have the changes that have come into force since November 5th achieve the desired result of avoiding the concealment of the condemned? In my opinion, the public understands that the answer is negative and that the new norms lead only to a limitation of indefinitely the publicity of justice. This is because, on the one hand, courts are forbidden to publish their act, respectively, to inform the media with a press release in cases of high public interest and through them and the citizens, until the prosecution has informed that action has been taken to implement the imposed punishment. On the other hand, the court cannot refuse to give a copy of the court order to the defendant himself, to his defender or to another party to the case. There is also no ban on the prosecution from spreading information about a sentence or decision provided by the court. According to the current interpretation of the controversial norm given by the committees of the Supreme Judicial Council because of the ban on publication, the verdict on the case of the Sofia Military Court against the former Director of the National Intelligence Service General Kircho Kirov was announced paradoxically in January 2018. While the court was forbidden to inform the public what it had decreed, the prosecution organised a briefing for journalists, and then sent them a press release with similar information about the sentencing sentence reached by the Sofia Military District Prosecutor's Office and the penalties imposed by the court. The condemned himself also expressed his opinion in an interview about the court order. This is just one of many examples of the fact that the changes in the PPC and the PPC, which entered into force on 5 November 2017, achieves only one of the sentences and decisions to be retold, interpreted to the media and to the public by the parties to the cases in a way that protects their views and views, and that the court which issued the relevant act should be forbidden to speak, to provide objective information to citizens about the publication of the sentence, the decision and a press release when it comes to cases of high public interest. A few words about the workload and the court card. The data show that the actions taken by the Supreme Judicial Council in 2016 and 2017 to address the burden problem of individual judicial authorities are in the right direction, but there is still no optimal result. It is undeniable that the efforts of the personnel body must continue in 2018, as the statistics on which the conclusions on workload are based continue to show a significant uneven workload of the courts in the country at both the same level and between the different instances. It has already been pointed out by Mr. Kirilov, but to repeat some of the important data. In the case of an average workload of 9.65 cases per month by one Judge for the Courts of Appeal, in 2016, it was 9.33, that of the Sofia Court of Appeal was 14.17 cases, while the Appeals Specialized Criminal Court was 3.3 cases per month. It was 2,98 in 2016. At the Court of Military Appeal, the workload was 1.24, i.e. in month 1,24 cases, at 1.78 in 2016. Even greater is the range of the ratio between the individual district courts, on the one hand, and the Specialized Criminal Court and the Sofia City Court on the other. In the case of average workload for 2017 of the judicial chambers at this level of the judicial system of 14,41 cases per month by one judge, that of the Specialized Criminal Court is 32,17 cases. The Sofia City Court has 30,97 cases. And under 7 cases in 2017 for consideration by one judge is the workload of the district courts in Targovishte " 5.26," and of Kardzhali " 5.64. In the regional courts of the country the situation of unevenness of the workload of the judges is even more visible. In an average workload of 57,60 cases per month by a judge in the district courts in the district centers the workload of the Sofia District Court in 2017 rose significantly and was 79,39 cases. It was 69,73 cases in 2016. The workload in the district courts is extremely high: in Pernik, 69 cases, in Montana, 68.65, while in the District Court of Veliko Tarnovo, is 30.85 per month for consideration by a judge. The other district courts in the district centres with workload below 35 are: Silistra. 32,32, and Dobrich.. 33,82. In the district courts outside the district centers of average workload 44,34 cases per month there are courts with workload below 20 cases: Ivaylovgrad. "11,48, Ardino "12,21," Malko Tarnovo "14, Tran "14,90, Krumovgrad " 18,58; while there are district courts with workload over 70 cases such as Velingrad, Lom, Ihtiman. Again, another year, the conclusion of this data is that a small part of the courts are overworked, while another one is too weak or insufficient. Unequivalence is one of the main causes of problems in the work of the judiciary. Because of it, the judicial system often brings public reproach on this, and it is justified that justice is slow, as a result of which there is constant distrust and doubt in society about the effectiveness of the judicial system. We must not delay the cardinal overcoming of this important problem. The measures that need to be taken must be complex. They are going through ideas of legislative changes, organisational changes within the judicial authorities themselves and greater creativity in the activities of the Supreme Judicial Council in order to secure the courts which need magistrates to resolve cases of their jurisdiction quickly. With regard to the judicial card, I have put out my arguments in the two reports in 2017 and 2018. I can only say that it is not acceptable to continue to avoid this conversation against the background of the realities related to demographic changes that occurred in the country, with the consequences of them and the uneven distribution of cases in the various regions leading to unfair burdens of judges. The debate that started in 2016 between the judges on this topic must continue, but I would like to say that this dialogue must also be conducted with the legislative and executive powers, amongst other authorities, a local and central one, in order to convince them of the need to change the judicial card and overcome their fears, and especially those of the people who are worried that they will be deprived of their right of access to a court. A few words about the courthouses. We need to take into account that in 2016 a significant problem has been solved.. providing a suitable building for Sofia District Court. In 2017, a building was also urgently provided for specialized criminal courts, however, the building provided requires major repairs, which will last a long period of time, and colleagues, with a view to the new workload, will be difficult to solve cases. In general, building fund management and in 2018 will again be a major challenge, because there are really many problems. Allow me to make a note of the courthouse in Sofia. In 2018, a solution must be found on this issue, because it has expired on the six courts and units of the prosecution, including the Supreme Cassation Prosecutor's Office. The Chamber of Justice in Sofia "Many letters from the heads of institutions that are accommodated in it testify that they need new offices, rooms and halls. It has come to the point that, as managing the judicial building, I have been recommended to provide for the administration of the Sofia Court of Appeal the wardrobe, located immediately after entering the main entrance of the building. This open space was planned by the architect of the building, formed in its construction and used by citizens and lawyers. The Court of Justice is a monument of culture and a similar building of walls, digging for cable niches would undoubtedly violate its image, preserved for decades by our predecessors who have preserved their cultural heritage. Therefore, I believe that only the adequate solution is for the removal of bodies from the Court of Justice s and prosecutions, and their accommodation in buildings that are suitable to meet the increased needs of premises and halls. A similar problem exists in Varna. Appellate Court of Varna uses the 5th floor of the Court of Justice building, which houses the District Court, as well as the Appeals and District Prosecutor's Office. A common problem of the institutions placed in this building is the insufficient number of premises. The building is overcrowded and can hardly take on new jobs. The question has been raised, there are possible solutions to be identified which of them is the most appropriate for solving the problem for Varna. The three courts that inhabit the Courthouse in the city of Plovdiv are again with insufficient premises in the building. It is indicated that there are two possible options. One is the complete construction of the property on which the Court of Justice is built; the other is the reconstruction of two courtrooms, used by the district and district courts, thus can be set up halls and premises in which the court officials can be accommodated and legal rooms can be set up. In Veliko Tarnovo there is again a problem with the premises of the Court of Appeal, again they are insufficient for the judicial officers and judges. Mr. Kirilov pointed out in the Report regarding the district courts, for which I also set out considerations in the Report. With regard to the judiciary, as you know, for the work of the judiciary to be effective and rapid, this depends exclusively on the competence and qualifications of the judiciary. The statistics, unfortunately, show that in the most severe situation in relation to the judge, the judicial officers are the appeals courts. In them the ratio of the number of employees to the number of magistrates is 1.28. The most serious is the situation at the Sofia Court of Appeal, it is 1.4. It was 1.14 in 2016. In the Court of Military Appeal is best, which is 2, approximately what is the average for district courts. In Sofia City Court is 2,51, at the Specialized Criminal Court of 2,37. The average proportion of this indicator for district courts in district centres is 2.83. In fact, the ratio is indicative with regard to employees, it is obvious: the ratio of the number of employees to the number of magistrates turns out to be inversely proportional to the cases for consideration. Moreover, there are district courts in the country, outside district centres, in which the ratio reaches 6.5 in Madan, even 7 as a ratio, i.e. 1 judge, 7 employees, in Momchilgrad, Zlatograd, Devin, Omurtag. With regard to the activities of the courts, these data were exported. The trend for the Supreme Cassation is to reduce cases. I wouldn't want to introduce you to specific figures, Mr. Kirilov did. This trend for the Supreme Court of Cassation is lasting. With regard to the authorisation granted for the use of special intelligence means, I can say that 4701 were issued in 2017, and the material means drawn up and received are 1214. For comparison, 4888 authorisations and 1646 material evidence were given in 2016. I cannot fail to note a reduction in the number of cases received and closed, by 24,71% and 26,23% respectively, compared to 2016 in the military courts. These courts continue to be among the least burdened in the country. There is also a decrease in the proceeds for the district courts. A slight increase is noted in the district courts as well as in the appeals courts. In terms of workload. I have already had the opportunity to introduce you, recalling that the most heavily burdened courts of the Criminal Court, as well as the Sofia City Court, have almost twice as much workload as their colleagues in other district courts. I have also said about the Sofia Court of Appeal, repeating again, with 1.24% are colleagues from the Court of Military Appeal, respectively 3.3% cases of the Appeals Specialized Court. There are many reasons leading to uneven workload both in individual areas and in specific courts. I have already said that for me this should be a complex approach that is sought within the Supreme Judicial Council and, of course, through legislative changes that can unload the courts that are loaded. And for the activities of the Supreme Court of Cassation, you already had the opportunity to be familiar with the presented report, and I cannot fail to note that, together with the direct judicial and interpretation activity, for the first time, the Bulgarian judges participated in direct elections to complete the professional quota of the Judicial College. It is indicative that with their vote the judges showed their respect for the professionalism of the judges of the Supreme Court of Cassation. Four Members of the Supreme Court of Cassation as members of the Supreme Judicial Council were elected in June 2017. A colleague of ours was also nominated as a member of the parliamentary quota at the Supreme Judicial Council. Thus, for the first time in the history of the Supreme Judicial Council, we have five judges elected members, respectively elected by parliament. I have already said that there is a permanent reduction in cases at the Supreme Court of Cassation. At the same time, the Supreme Court of Cassation continues to fulfil its commitments to uniformise interpretation. For the first time in 2016, in view of the new amendments to the Law on the Judicial Authority, a joint interpretation case was initiated between the three colleagues of the Chamber of Commerce, the Civil College and the Criminal College, and we already have an interpretive decision in 2018. That is to say, the new rule of the Law on the Judiciary, which allows a joint decision of the three colleges, is already a fact. With regard to the workload of colleagues from the Supreme Court of Cassation, I will focus on the Criminal College. The cases lodged in 2015 were 1669, in 2016 were 1369, and in 2017 there were 1317 cases. It is obvious that the tendency to reduce the workload of the supreme judges, currently dealing with about four cases per month. Of course, legal and factual complexity is not small, with materials and cases with a volume of even over 800 pages. I have already mentioned that it also reduces the workload of colleagues from the Commercial College and colleagues from the Civil College. In relation to the activities of the Members of the Supreme Court of Cassation, monthly reports shall be drawn with a view to resolving cases within reasonable time limits. Unpopular measure, but ultimately it is the Supreme Court of Cassation that must state that cases should be dealt with within a reasonable time. At the end of the day, I'm willing to take a detour. I would not like to miss the opportunity and express to you my concern about the quality of legislation and, in some cases, the involvement of elementary legal principles in the exercise of this power by the Bulgarian Parliament. Do not allow this to happen, ladies and gentlemen of parliament, because today you are MPs, but tomorrow as ordinary citizens you will have to live by these rules that you yourself have created. As a participant in the reform of administrative justice, I would like to address you and request that the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Code do not return the wheel of history, because I believe that in a young democracy there should be more guarantees to protect citizens from administrative arbitrariness. Do not deprive Bulgarian citizens of access to justice by tilting the scale in one direction. That's it, I'm ready to answer your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Panov. Dear Mr. Panov, as a representative of the National Assembly's leadership, I cannot accept your reasoning on the reason for your failure to attend the National Assembly at the first inclusion of the review reports about a week ago. The management of the National Assembly respects all institutions and observes the laws, its own rules and strives not to put the institutions in a particular position but to be placed in an equal position. I will end this, because your attitude and what has just been expressed towards the quality of the laws adopted by the National Assembly, I think that is not the place, the forum and the way you express yourself. I am sure that you will hear the views of the Members of the National Assembly on your opinion on the laws adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you. Colleagues, I'm opening the debate. Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u16	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Panov, in so far as I was one of the MPs who insisted that the point be postponed to your presence here in the National Assembly, I believe that we have thus defended what you claim here for a good reason, and we also demand respect between the institutions, mutual respect and fulfillment of the institutions' commitments to each other. In our proposal then there was nothing offensive, on the contrary, we have given this opportunity when you are free and the schedule allows you to come here and say your opinion, to defend the Report you have prepared, based on the data and reports of other courts. I would like to address the issue of the relationship between the institutions, in particular between the judiciary and parliament and within the judiciary, between the different parts of the judiciary. It is impressive that there is such tension, and the last week proves that coordination between institutions does not function properly. It is a well-known fact that the rule of law functions through separation of authorities and individual authorities are not only independent of each other, but at the same time coordinate their activities, interact, adjust and, on the basis of this, the functioning of a rule of law as is ours. In this regard, we have something to say as politicians, and, as we have heard, you have something to say as magistrates. The Constitution, in particular the legislature, in the Law on the Judiciary has declared absolute independence of the judiciary, but the legislator has decreed its depolitization in relation to this independence and in relation to the separation of powers. We, as politicians and as members of the legislative body, would be in debt to the truth, to our consciences, if we do not note the fact that separate parts of the judiciary I will be a specific one and you as President of the Supreme Court of Cassation do not meet this requirement. In all these recent years, we have observed an active politicisation, an active participation in political life that does not bother us as your participation, but as a reconciliation of the two roles that does not meet the requirements of the Law and the spirit of the Constitution. To express an opinion is one thing, to participate in projects and to actively work in both areas at the same time, we think it is unacceptable. This, of course, also reflects on work. Otherwise, as they say, we'd pass it a lot more generously. The tensions between the State and the State's Attorney's Office today in your speech have shown that this has shown criticism of the accusation, the powers of the prosecution in all these years and so on. We, as politicians, as members of the legislative body, must be careful of all these manifestations and correct them when necessary, because there is no way for authorities to function if they themselves do not respect division and if they themselves enter the field of others. Can you imagine a politician commenting on a court decision? To be honest, I've barely met one in my years of practice. On the contrary, I will even tell you that when the media asks a politician about a certain decision of the court, the on-call phrase is: "I am not commenting on a decision of the court.."........................ that this has become a cliché, it is because all of us who are dealing with a policy are aware that the absolute independence of the judiciary, in particular the court, is a very important condition for the functioning of democracy, for the functioning of the rule of law. We would like to see the same from the participants in the judiciary, even more than they are called, the three big ones from you as head of the Supreme Court of Cassation. This disrupted dialogue and the attempt to interfere with one system in the other in the case of the judiciary in political matters also hinders the legislation itself. All those things that you say should be done in a constructive dialogue, in which there is no attempt to be either, and the other in both systems, will certainly give better results in terms of improving the legislation and working conditions of the judiciary, in particular the courts, the financing, the material base and everything. This was the reason why we wanted and continue to insist that the dialogue between the judiciary and the legislative body should be conducted in its pure form, as the Constitution has proclaimed, the Law on the Judiciary and the other laws on having a dialogue, to do what citizens expect of us, and they expect us not to reconcile roles, but, on the contrary, to have a good institutional dialogue so that the institutions can be for the benefit of the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u17	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. - What's the line? You have the floor, Mr. Kirilov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u18	Mr. Chairman, Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Cassation, honourable Members! Dear Mr. Tsonev, I agree with the vast majority of your conclusions, opinions, from the logic of your speech, but I would like to take a reply on the principle that you commented on the politicians do not comment on judgments. It's time, I think, to talk about this stigma that we have to talk about, and it seems to me that it's shifting into the countries where we have a democratic order being built. Judgments should, in my opinion, be commented by everyone, as anything can be commented in a free country. Yes, it cannot be influenced by the decision-making of the judicial authorities until it is ordered, but after the judgment has been given, the judgment itself produces part of its consequences precisely with the comments. We relatively internationally have a very serious, say legal system, legal systems that are built on this basis... the active and dynamic participation of the audience in the court proceedings. The trials there are not only with a jury elected for each trial, but through the movement of the process in the precedent judicial system of general law everything is commented. The public commented on every fact, every proof, the development of the process. The point is to make this comment hygienic. [[The President signals that time has expired.]] Abort, Mr. Chairman. I think the speaker Mr. Tsonev understood my thesis and my idea. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u19	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Second line? I won't. Dear Mr. Tsonev, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u20	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Mr. Kirilov, I accept your line, although that's not what I meant. I wanted to emphasise the extent to which politicians, political life actors have understood that we must respect the independence of the judiciary, that we must have respect for this independence. I wanted to stress that. And the comments on decisions that have already entered into force, this is a completely different topic. I accept your reply, but I stress again that all of us are members of the legislative body and members of the political parties as participants in the political life. We respect the independence of the judiciary, the Bulgarian Court of Justice. We do this every day. We expect the separation of authorities to be respected in the spirit of the Constitution and the requirements of the Law on the Judiciary and other laws. That is what I wanted to stress in my speech. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u21	Thank you, Mr. Tsonev. Any other speeches? Here you go, Mr. Kirilov. After him, Mr. Shopov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u22	Dear Mr. President, honourable Members of Parliament, honourable Mr. President of the Supreme Court of Cassation! I asked for a separate statement in addition to the essential issues we are discussing in the two annual reports, which are of our attention and were also discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs, but since, already in the public domain, in the National Television, I have had the opportunity to state my participation in the procedure, I would call it an Notification for discussion in the plenary of the eight annual reports of the judicial authorities. As I had the opportunity to say on Tuesday at noon, when there was not yet in any way adopted or agreed weekly programme for the work of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly Mrs. Tsveta Karayancheva asked me in terms of the way of notification, of the possible visiting representatives of the Bulgarian magistrate in this debate in plenary. Clearly, logic followed the fact that these reports were discussed in the Committee on Legal Affairs. In this conversation, both Ms. Karayancheva and I took into account that we did not have a voted-out, adopted programme from the plenary with which to clearly, clearly, unambiguously say: points from first to fourth are the annual reports in the judiciary. What we highlighted in this discussion was the following and that the President of the National Assembly adopted this principle... all heads of the judiciary who presented the Report or have a bearing on the Report should be informed in the same way. I understand that the President of the National Assembly's office has in the same way been informed by the President of the Supreme Administrative Court and the Supreme Judicial Council and the Prosecutor General and you as President of the Supreme Court of Cassation. In the guests I admit that I missed the Chief Inspector at the Inspectorate of the Supreme Judicial Council, which is why I apologize now, Mrs. Tochkova was informed the next day at 9:00 a.m. We also took into account in this conversation, in addition to the equality of all possible interested rapporteurs on these reports, that we have only the option of invitation. Only at an invitation and, notice that in the debate last week we ruled out the possibility of any obligation of a senior chief in the judiciary to attend the debate, although we have such a constitutional opportunity. So I believe that the National Assembly has institutionally defended the principles of the Constitution, acting entirely within these principles, including in accordance with its Rules. I believe that we all as citizens are obliged to respect the laws as strictly as possible, and some categories of individuals are obliged to respect the laws even more strictly, even more jealously, to comply with them. Among these persons we are the MPs, lawyers as a professional word community, magistrates as individuals who legalize and enforce the law in its intensity. That concludes this debate. At the same time, I would like to comment on some of the highlights in the reports for the two years, which, in any case, point to some serious trends both in institutional interaction and in resolving the problems that are in order to implement the Strategy for Judicial Reform. Including here Mr. Panov and Mr. Tsonev commented on the development of legislation. Maybe I should start with the development of legislation, because this is at the beginning of the systematics in these reports. I would be delighted if there is reciprocity in the interaction and in the relationship between the legislative body and the independent judiciary so that independence can both be defended and the principle of equality and equal distance. Mr. Tsonev rightly noted that politicians rarely allow ourselves to comment, to criticize the acts of the judiciary. Among other things... No, I will not comment on any other similar obligations of respect for the judiciary, but I believe that the legislative body, citizens, civil society organisations value this integrity of the judiciary. They don't criticize. We continue not to criticize, even when we are terribly dissatisfied, even when we see obvious contradictions in solving identical cases. We patiently abide by the Law, or so we think, and we believe that we obey the Law's command and say: "Whatever the court has said, this is what the Court has cut it off, decided it. " That's why I was pleasantly surprised by Mr. Tsonev's statement. I would be happy to open this debate to the extent that society in general, I exclude stakeholders, to have a public and broad debate and the quality of justice. Some individuals and subjects have opened a debate on legislation. I can do and do a continuous detailed analysis of the quality of legislation, and I say that whatever indicators and criteria we apply to the legislative process, the previous and this National Assembly can prove a much better, much better legislative process. I would be happy if only these two defects, yet I say it in quotes that have been mentioned, are the defects of legislation during the two years. One that the procedure for the election of members of the Supreme Judicial Council from the judicial quota did not have a detailed procedure for the formation of the formation of the formations and numbering of cases. The other regarding the publicity of the judgments of the Criminal Court according to the amendment in the PPC. Yeah, that obviously bothered the Criminal Court during that time, bothered the parties to the criminal proceedings, the penalist colleagues who appear in criminal cases. But in the PPC we made much more serious, much more general changes that led to new quality, new dynamics, new speed of the criminal process. Yeah, we haven't forgotten, and we haven't closed our eyes to the fact that we're obviously not going to have to interpret it, but simply do another version of the norm that commented on the disclosure, the notification, the publicity of the judgment. In the meantime, I would like to thank President Lozanov, the Supreme Court judges, the Vice-Presidents: Judge Panova, former Vice-President Vlahov, Vice-President I do not know whether he is active, whether he is still active, Judge Prodanov, who took a very serious part in the legislative procedure for amendments to the Civil Procedure Code. With their authority, based on their experience, on active cooperation with opinions both on principles and on details and on case-law, I think that we have been able to make some good amendments that were in the enforcement and ordering proceedings. Here I neglected to refer to Judge Belzelkov, Judge Balevska. Please excuse the judges I can't quote the names to. This process continued with the Bill, which my colleague Zarkov and colleagues from the BSP reiterated for a debate, for a change in civil lawsuits in relation to damages claims, insurance disputes. We will be available to solve these cases, according to the magistrates' view of their workload. We strive not to anticipate the Magistrate's initiative in order to comply with the principles of judicial self-government. That is, to see the initiative of the acting magistrates, to respect the authority of the Supreme Judicial Council, and not to prejudge the issues of conviction and workload purely konjuncturally or with criteria to be outside the judiciary system. On these issues, I could talk a lot, but I would stress the following: we should all strive to achieve the best possible interaction between individuals and entities that are both relevant to the legislative process and to justice, because these are activities and functions in a non-removable, conexic. Therefore, I respect the criticisms of the representatives of the judiciary, no matter where they are served, given to colleagues in Brussels, given to websites of some or other publications. I'll continue to appreciate them. If we open a debate on the quality of justice, I declare that I am ready to take part in this debate, and in an honest way, I am not going to violate the principles of independence of the judiciary. But I ask no one to prejudge this debate, not to prejudge it. A good step in this direction are the written ones, I stress, invitations of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation to the Legal Commission, inviting us to take an opinion on each case that has been initiated in the last year and a half. We appreciate these invitations, we discuss them in the Commission. We do not allow ourselves to give an explicit opinion because of the parliamentary practice thus established. However, this issue is also a discussional issue and should also, in the context of this interaction, be re-evaluated, discussed and reconsidered whether we should respond to these calls with all the limitations that this is the opinion of a committee, that this is an opinion that is voted on by voting that it does not reflect all the particular opinions. Maybe it's more correct to send out the transcripts than one of these debates. I wish you success in the work of the judiciary. I wish to have the same success in commenting and reporting on the achievements of both the courts and the National Assembly before the delegation's forthcoming mission under the Cooperation and Assessment Mechanism. I believe that, without regard to our political affiliation, everyone in this House can state our will and our desire to continue efforts for positive and effective changes in the development of independence and the quality of work of the judiciary and legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u23	Thank you, dear Mr. Kirilov. Are there any lines? I won't. Dear Mr. Shopov, you have the floor to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u24	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I am going out with the paper on the National Assembly Work Programme to read point one that this is a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2016 and a Report on the implementation of the law and the activities of the courts in 2017, submitted by the Supreme Judicial Council. Who represents the Supreme Judicial Council? He represents Mr. Magdalenchev. Is he here? He's not here today. I have therefore tried to prevent you from being called in to a person who has participated in the Law on the Judiciary as a technology in the drafting of these reports. Because that's the technology the district courts are writing reports, summarizing the district, the appeals and finally the Supreme Court of Cassation. Nothing more. But what was the goal? The aim here with the participation of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation was to implement the plan, the desire and the whole scheme of one part, some circles, some circles in Bulgaria, and it is clear to everyone who they are, for the legitimization of the President of the Supreme Court of Cassation again in society. It seems that here in the room yesterday also sounded by misunderstood colleagues of lawyers, chief of judges, the first among the judges, who actually have powers over the courts in Bulgaria, which is not the case. But the goal was fulfilled. We heard from the tribune a little while ago reproaching us, the legislature, reproaching the manner of notification, reproaching the telephone approach and notification to make us enter the explanatory regime and pouring ashes on our head, and Mr. Kirilov, I think, for a long time explained that there was no such thing. The colleagues who spoke before me were very careful, they were delicate, I'd say. Because they're obviously afraid and worried about excesses, they're worried about scandals. Yeah, because with this invitation and what we heard from that tribune just now, that's exactly what an excess is about, a scandal. And the whole of our society some time ago, we were on our toes, faced with a huge threat, and it was overcome by three hundred dawns. Some people, extremely principled and vocal, extremely concerned about the good judicial system and authority in Bulgaria, had gone out in cities and villages and in the center of Sofia, and in my home town of Plovdiv, there was one person who remembered or didn't know if you were remembering that the rules, order, system were loud and raised their voice about how fair they were, against corruption, about courts, against bad judges, against bad courts, and they wanted to make hardly a revolution. Because it had reached the time when there was a NGO scheme to accept court reports. Do you remember that time? For public control of the courts! Like in the time of the People's Courts. There are other examples like this. These people were units and they're looking for a rematch again. The goal at the moment, honourable Members, has been achieved with today's sitting, however careful you were, Mr. Kirilov, just now and you tried not to provoke and create an excess, because that is what it is intended to do, in fact an attempt is made in society to resuscitate this thread. She's very dangerous. Look what's going on in Romania! Look what happened in Poland! Look at the accusations being made in Hungary right now! The goal of neoliberal circles is to find an occasion, a way for people's minds and hearts to cause discontent, to cause changes in power, governments, majorities that are comfortable with them. This is happening in Romania right now, colleagues from BSP! There the attack is against the Socialist Party, the attack is on the occasion of courts, laws, judiciary and system. In Poland, it's against what you call this division, although I've never recognised it, to the right, to the conservatives. The attack in Hungary is against Orban, we know what he is. The goal is to strike against dissatisfied because it is very easy, and it catches people by heart and minds, as I told you earlier, it is very easy to make accusations against the judiciary. That's the easiest thing to do. And we see some guys and girls with scars going off to fight for the judiciary, making some statements about legality...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u25	With bikes and dogs.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u26	Yeah, bikes and dogs. Yeah, there's a time. He even has uniforms. Here in Bulgaria they collected them for Romania because they were seconded by country to country. In Romania, on this occasion, a Bulgarian flag took place and our media said: "Bravo, we Bulgarians are taking part in the next one I do not know which gentle revolution and attempted coup in practice in Romania. And collect them, I'll tell you, behind the church. Alexander Nevsky in vans and they're headed there. In Bulgaria we were faced with this very soon and had left. Here, thanks to the decisive actions, especially to the Prosecutor General, I do not do an analysis of his work in all directions, he has his criticism on my part, but in this respect he is honored that he was one of the people who stopped this creeping process of crushing, of taking over the judiciary. To this end, someone needs to be legitimized. Someone has to lead this entire crime team and things have to go forward as this happens. At the moment, honourable Members, the objective, again, I am telling you, with today's meeting, with today's invitation, with today's debate is largely implemented because a group that is semi-media, semi-mafia, semi-political and semi-political, half-time, which at certain times was trying to appoint ministers, presidents and more, and more, at the moment all employees are on their feet, journalists are following what is going on here, and an attempt is being made and an attempt will be made to lift this criminal chamber again for another attempt to strike at the government. This could be in BSP's favor. They desire all attempts, they strive and they are pleased with all attempts to destabilize governance and lead to their goal, but it is about principles. It's a state-of-the-art approach. We are talking about a basic basis in the relationship between institutions and that we are making policy here, and let us be clear about these things. So I tried twice to stop this legitimization, which was realized, but which will not go without consequences. Thank you. [[Applause from OP.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u27	Thank you, dear Mr. Shopov. - What's the line? I won't. Any other speeches? You have the floor, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u28	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members of the National Assembly! Dear Mr. Panov, I wasn't going to take the attitude today in the debate that was supposed to be held on the report we are going to accept, but the statement you made at the beginning provoked me to take the attitude. Mr. Panov, you are the chairman of the Supreme Court of Cassation and every representative of every institution in Bulgaria must work to have mutual respect for each other and as we appreciate your work, so should you value our work as well. Because the MPs are elected by the Bulgarian voters and that the MPs are voting on draft laws is an opportunity that they have under the Bulgarian Constitution and, of course, on proposals that come from the executive authority by the Council of Ministers and by MPs who may be importers of specific laws. But Mr. Panov, I would like to tell you that in each of the committees that there are in the Bulgarian Parliament work many specialists who are in the relevant areas, and I can tell you that they have not come with the new parliament, but perhaps they are here over decades, working and doing their best to actually be at the necessary high level. And here I would like to share that when there is legislation that is believed to be contrary to the Bulgarian Constitution, there are relevant mechanisms both by a group of MPs, as well as by the President of the country to refer to the Constitutional Court and to be able to actually review certain texts if they are unconstitutional. And my request: let us really, when looking at specific reports on the judiciary, talk about the problems that are in the judiciary, and not about whether you have been notified by phone, because I am a Member of the National Assembly since 2009 and when there was a need for a hearing of ministers then I was also in the executive body, there has always been a practice imposed and we have always been informed on the phone. This has in no way been offensive to me as Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior. And so far, all those who are invited to attend the plenary are invited exactly the same way after a vote in Parliament, the President of the Parliament takes part and informs the relevant representative of the institution thereof if possible to appear in Parliament so that he can actually be heard or participate in the debates that are being held on a subject. I say this purely pragmatically, because neither we nor I suppose you have the need for such a clash purely institutional. I can tell you that we have respect for the justice system. The power of a democracy, the power of the Bulgarian Constitution, is that consensus has been reached on the separation of authorities, and that each of the authorities can actually work as well as possible, only and only guided by the national interests and the interest of society. And we, the MPs who are elected and represent our respective electoral regions, are actually working daily to protect the country's public and national interests. Thank you. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u29	Thank you, dear Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any other statements? Dear Mr. Panov, you have the floor. You asked to speak.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u30	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! I'll try to be very brief. The separation of authorities requires interaction between them. But, as has already been said by the stands, I quote: "They also have the opportunity to correct each other and it is normal to sometimes have tensions between the authorities. " - This is not politicisation. Criticism, expression of opinion does not mean politicisation. With regard to this issue, I can say that deterring the authorities is precisely that guarantee that it does not come to autocracy. In this sense, I also believe that there is no obstacle to expressing views on judicial acts. I think that no one has the right to prohibit a party to proceedings, the prosecution, a party to proceedings from expressing an opinion on judicial acts, as we magistrates comment on the acts of European courts. This is quite normal in a democratic process. The problem is rather what the media environment is and whether it is enough objectively and not tendentially and deliberately trying to analyse judicial acts. If it is objective, it will help all of us if it is trendy, if it is sensitive, it will obviously negatively affect the authority of the judiciary. Again I say: expression of criticism, expression of opinion does not mean politicisation. With regard to the legislative process, I will also try to be brief. Whenever we have been asked for experts, judges, magistrates to participate in the working committees at the level of the Ministry of Justice, respectively the Legal Commission, we have responded. The problem is that it is increasingly difficult to motivate fellow magistrates to participate in this process, because very often invitations come at the last moment, and very often between first and second reading legislative proposals are made for legislative changes that change the essence of the initial changes. Again, I say: I find it difficult to motivate colleagues to participate because they say that their opinion is not respected. In my report, I tried objectively to point out both legislative decisions that had a positive impact on the process, and I am talking about the changes in the PPC in 2015, which have obviously reduced the workload of colleagues from the Supreme Court of Cassation, and at the same time legislative decisions that hinder the normal work of magistrates, I have only given a few examples so that I can make it easier for you to make decisions. I believe that the place of expression is right here, before you, so that if you have such ideas, you can recognize them for the future legislative process. But I can't help but note that, along with the changes between first and second readings, there are many laws where, unfortunately, the exception for the reverse action of laws begins to become a rule. That's what I want to focus on. In order not to bore you any more, since the subject of Poland, Hungary, Romania did not introduce it, I will conclude that the challenges faced by post-communist countries such as Poland, such as Hungary, are now facing Bulgaria. And in my opinion, Bulgaria is once again facing a civilisational choice: to choose whether to undermine the foundations of the common European home, or to defend its values on which it has built. Thank you for your attention. I won't take any more of this.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u31	Thank you, dear Mr. Panov. Colleagues, are there any other people who would like to speak? I won't. I'm closing the debate. Let's move on to the vote. I will put to the vote the draft decision on the adoption of the Law Implementation Report and on the activities of the courts in 2016, as amended by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Vote 160 MPs: 112, no objection, abstention 48. The offer is accepted. I will now put to the vote the Draft Decision on the adoption of the Report on the Implementation of the Law and on the Activities of the Courts in 2017 as amended by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Vote 157 MPs: 111 against 1, abstention 45. The proposal is accepted, with which we have completed the first point of the Work Programme. Thank you for your participation, dear Mr. Panov. Moving to second point of the program: FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE AND DEVELOPMENT. The people's representative Cornelia Ninova and a group of MPs are importing. I would remind you that the MPs Anton Kutev, Toma Bikov, Nona Yotova, Evgeni Budinov, Krum Zarkov and Julian Angelov spoke at the first discussion. The time remaining for the parliamentary groups until the end of the discussion of the Bill is: of the parliamentary group of GERB - 28,36 minutes; BSP - 4 minutes and 39 seconds; We continue with the speeches, honourable Members. Procedure in the manner of conducting Mr. Kutev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u32	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The procedure and manner of conduct are related to the fact that the first reading of this bill is only now being voted on, given that it was submitted in November 2017, that is, almost a year ago, and was reviewed in committees and in the Chamber about nine months ago. I don't know what caused the delay and that to be seen after being seen in the Chamber and after practically running out of time and the debate passed, it took nine months before entering the Chamber the Bill, which I think is a problem of the management of the National Assembly, which is also related to my procedure. Firstly, I ask that in such cases the bills be viewed on time after being viewed, because I am not convinced that all my fellow Members are currently remembering all the arguments for the draft, which means and doubting their real assessment, whether it is useful and to what extent this bill should be adopted. In this regard, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the conditions have changed compared to this debate, which is held in March, if I am not mistaken, February. The fact is that we are now very close to the budgetary procedure. The fact is that the assessment that was in this bill was that it would cost the state budget no more than 8 million. lv. real, and it is quite obvious, firstly, that this money is currently in the budget, and, secondly, that within the budgetary procedure...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u33	Mr. Kutev, you have a procedure in the manner of conduct.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u34	This is the procedure in the manner of conduct. Thanks to the delay you have made, the conditions have practically changed to the extent that this bill is now much more acceptable, including for the majority. So please keep the schedules at least a link between the examination and the vote on the one hand. Secondly, I ask my colleagues to support it, because this bill will implement it not BSP, but your Minister and your Deputy Ministers. You will conduct this policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u35	Thank you, Mr. Kutev. Any other speeches? If there isn't, we're going to vote. I put to the vote the Draft Law on the Supplement to the Law on Protection and Development of Culture with the People's Representatives of Cornelia Ninova and a group of Members of the National Assembly on 17 November 2017. Vote 172 MPs: 69, against 43, abstention 60. The offer is not accepted. Mr. Kutev, a re-vote? Would you mind showing him off the stands?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u36	Colleagues, I note once again that the conditions have been changed since we reviewed this law. The money is absolutely available and it's possible...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u37	Mr. Kutev, please just say that you want a reword without arguing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u38	That's what I'm gonna say. It is quite possible right now that this bill will be adopted and I say again that this will be your policy, you will implement it. It's stupid to refuse this thing for ideological reasons only, if there are any. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u39	Thank you, dear Mr. Kutev. Revoting procedure. Vote 174 MPs: for 69, against 51, abstention 54. The offer is not accepted. We continue with the next item of the work programme: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR CULTURE PROTECTION AND DEVELOPMENT, No 802 01 25, submitted by the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u40	Where are they going from BSP? [[Part of the MPs from BSP for Bulgaria are leaving the hall.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u41	Please allow the MPs to take their seats and remain silent in order to hear the report of the Committee on Culture and Media. Mr. Gokov, please! Here you are, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u42	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber. [[Noise.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u43	Colleagues, please remain silent in this room. Mr. Mirchev, Mrs. Simeonova, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u44	I read the clearance procedure. Do you want me to say it again?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u45	Yeah. I'm going to put the tolerance procedure to the vote.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u46	Access procedure on the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Mr. Rumen Dimitrov to be admitted to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u47	Thank you. I put to the vote the procedural proposal for admission in the Chamber made by the Member of the National Assembly Mrs. Savateva. They voted 102 MPs: 100, against 2, no abstentions. The motion is accepted. Please invite Mr. Dimitrov to the hall. Please continue the presentation of the report, Mrs. Sawateva.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u48	♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, No 802-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. At a regular meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media, held on 19 July 2018, a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture was reviewed, No 802-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Culture: Rumen Dimitrov The bill on behalf of the importers was presented by Mr. Rumen Dimitrov. The proposed legislative changes provide that the competitions for directors of the state cultural institutes and the Executive Director of the Executive Agency of the National Film Centre are to be broadcast on record on the website and/or the video channel of the Ministry of Culture. In this way, a transparent, clear and visible competition of candidates and a fair choice will be ensured, confidence in the institutions will be increased. A regulation shall be established if the Minister of Culture is unable to attend a meeting of the Board of Directors of the National Fund of Culture, exceptionally to be replaced by an Deputy Minister authorised by him. During the discussion, Commission President Vecdi Rashidov noted that the problem is not the way competitions are held and who wins them, but that certain institutions do not work. Vice-President of the Commission Professor Stanislav Stanilov said that the proposed changes will not improve the competition start and he will not support the bill. The bill is accompanied by a partial preliminary impact assessment. After a discussion of the National Representatives of the Committee on Culture and Media with 12 votes in favour, 2 against and without abstentions, the National Assembly is asked to adopt a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, No 802-01-25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u49	Thank you, Mrs. Sawateva. Dear Members of Parliament, we are going to debate on the first vote of the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, No 802 01 25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. Statements? Here you are, Professor Stanilov. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u50	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! At the meeting, I expressed some doubts and voted against it, because I believe that such a measure will cause even greater friction, even greater squabbles in these contests. I don't know if everyone knows that these contests always get big protests and lawsuits. There are beginning to be writing things that are not true because people have not been there and have not followed how one or another candidate has answered the Commission's questions during the interview, and it is therefore argued that, as the French say, the party in the case of the wrong candidate is chosen. I had a conversation with the Minister of Culture and he convinced me or almost convinced me that this must also be done from this thing, if it works, it can also be applied in other areas of our government. Therefore, I am going to vote this time for this draft law and see what comes out of the whole thing. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u51	Thank you, Professor Stanilov. Are there any lines to the statement? I can't see. Any other speeches? Are there any Members of the National Assembly willing to speak at first reading of the bill? I can't see. I'm closing the discussion and we're going to vote. Dear Members of Parliament, we vote at first reading the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, No 802-01-25, tabled by the Council of Ministers on 9 July 2018. They voted 93 MPs: 92, none, abstention 1. The motion is accepted. With this at first reading was adopted Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Protection and Development of Culture, No 802 01 25, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 9 July This Decision shall Dear Members of Parliament, we are moving to the next item on the agenda: FIRST READING THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND CLEARANCE OF THE LAW FOR PUBLIC PROCEEDINGS. We'll get acquainted with the reports on the bill. Firstly, the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs. Mrs. Alexandrova, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u52	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. ♪ I can't believe for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act No 802-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2018. At its meeting held on 11 September 2018, the Committee on Legal Affairs discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 802-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2018. The meeting was attended by: Mrs. Miglena Pavlova Executive Director, Mrs. Galya Manassieva Director of the Directorate of Public Procurement and Methodology. Mrs. Anna Mitkova Director of the Directorate of Electronic Awards, Standardization and Monitoring, and Mrs. Hristina Deneva Head of the Department of Legal Arrangements and Methodology........................................................................................................................................................................................................................ The bill was presented by Mrs. Miglena Pavlova, who pointed out that it aims to establish regulatory rules and conditions for the phase-in and implementation of an electronic procurement platform in the country and that national legislation provides for the contracting authorities to receive and process electronic invoices in connection with the implementation of public procurement contracts in accordance with the requirements of Directive 2014/55/EU. With regard to the introduction of mandatory electronic communication, a change in the order for the signature, publication and service of electronic documents in the course of the award and execution of contracts is proposed, respectively, in the rules for the storage of information. An increase in the value thresholds under art. 20 of the Public Procurement Act, such as the increase in the thresholds for construction, supply and services, aims to approach the relevant new European values, in force from 1 January 2018. The Bill proposes the clarification of the circle of persons who are obliged to declare personal circumstances when participating in orders. The circle of those persons shall be limited to the legal and authorised representatives of the economic entity and to the members of its management and supervisory bodies. It is envisaged that, where legal persons are members of those bodies, the circumstances should be declared only by natural persons representing them by law and by authority. The provisions governing the eligibility of the replacement or inclusion of a sub-contractor in the performance of a contract have been changed. A penalty for the unlawful replacement of a contractor or sub-contractor is envisaged, aiming to achieve a disciplinary effect on the parties to the contract. In order to ensure greater transparency in the procurement and execution process, an obligation is introduced for contracting entities to publish sub-contract contracts on the buyer profile and in the Public Procurement Register a statement of all additional contracts to the contracts, irrespective of the legal basis for their amendment. Unification of the practice of implementing the Law is also proposed by clarifying separate rules and requirements of the Law and improving cooperation between the bodies of preliminary and subsequent control. Changes are proposed in the ex ante control carried out by the Public Procurement Agency, which are based on the current practice accumulated within the two-year period of the Law and aim to optimize its type and scope, as well as to align the rules and approach for carrying out. Changes are proposed aimed at more effective cooperation between the Public Procurement Agency and the public procurement control bodies. The aim is to support the uniform understanding and implementation of public procurement legislation. Changes to the administrative penal provisions of the Law are also proposed. Ms. Pavlova noted that the expected effects of the adoption of the Law were improving the public procurement system in the country and optimizing the work of state institutions, which would have a positive impact on the award process. The discussion was attended by the MPs Danail Kirilov, Christian Mitev and Pencho Milkov, as well as representatives of the executive power and the branch organization. Ms. Angeleva expressed a positive opinion on the Bill, noting that regarding certain provisions of the Chamber of Builders in Bulgaria will make proposals for clarification. Mr. Milkov noted that the proposed Bill is essential and supports its objective of electronic procurement and e-payment, but there are reservations on certain provisions of it and will therefore refrain from supporting the Bill. MPs Danail Kirilov and Hristian Mitev expressed their support for the bill and Mr. Mitev pointed out that he agreed to refine some of the provisions of the Bill, including according to the proposals of the branch organization. After the discussion, the Committee on Legal Affairs with 12 votes for the Public Procurement Act, No 802-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Public Procurement Act, No 802-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u53	Thank you, Mrs. Alexandrova. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u54	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, I am making a procedural proposal for admission in the hall of Ms. Marinela Petrova, Deputy Minister of Finance, Mrs. Miglena Pavlova, Executive Director of the Public Procurement Agency, Mrs. Galya Manassieva, Director of the Directorate of Law and Methodology, Mrs. Anna Mitkova, Director of the Directorate of Electronic Award, Standardization and Monitoring and Mrs. Hristina Deneva, Head of the Department of Law and Methodology. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. We are going to vote on the admission procedure in the Chamber of the persons proposed by Mr. Kirilov. 70 MPs voted: 70, no abstentions. Please invite the Quaestors, Mrs. Petrova, Pavlova, Manassieva, Mitkova and Deneva to enter the Chamber. Please take your seats. We are going to get acquainted with the report of the Committee on Budget and Finance. You are welcome to present the Report to the Commission.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u56	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! ♪ I can't believe to the Committee on Budget and Finance on a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 802-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2018. At a meeting held on 13 September 2018, the Budget and Finance Committee examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 802-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2018. The bill was presented by Mrs. Rositsa Velkova, Deputy Minister of Finance. The main objective of the Bill is to complement and refine the rules and conditions for the phase-in and use of an electronic platform. With it, the award of public procurement in the country will gradually move on to a new stage and will take place mainly by electronic means. In this regard, the proposed bill introduces provisions relating to the whole award process. The order for signing, service and receipt of electronic documents in the course of the procedures and also in the execution of contracts, including payments thereof, is regulated. The use of the platform is mandatory for the parties involved in the procurement process and therefore the cases of exceptions to this rule are settled in full. The possibility of central purchasing bodies using their platforms is allowed provided they comply with the basic requirements set out in the regulations and ensure connectivity with the single national platform. Another part of the amendments to the Bill introduce the requirements of Directive 2014/55/EU on electronic invoicing in public procurement. An obligation of contracting entities to accept and process electronic invoices for payment under public contracts is regulated. It is necessary that invoices are compatible with the European standard of electronic invoicing. The bill also proposes changes aimed at optimising and clarifying the existing legislation. During its implementation, over a period of more than two years, there has been a need to clarify and supplement certain rules with a view to their proper and uniform understanding by the entities of the procurement process. The most important of them are in the following guidelines: the value thresholds under art. 20 of the Public Procurement Act; the circle of persons who are obliged to declare the so-called personal circumstances in the case of participation in contracts is refined; the relevant provisions governing the possibility of replacement or inclusion of a new sub-contractor in the performance of a contract are changed. Important changes have also been made to ensure and increase publicity and transparency in the procurement and execution process. The change is also essential, according to which all information about the so-called small orders is now subject to publication in the Public Procurement Register. Some changes have also been made to the functions of the Public Procurement Agency, mainly related to ex ante controls, in order to optimise its type and scope, as well as uniformising its rules and approach. Amendments are proposed aimed at more effective cooperation between the Public Procurement Agency and the public procurement control bodies. In this regard, the main task of the Methodical Council, which includes representatives of those authorities, has been refined. On the basis of the results of the work of the authorities, the Council will adopt guidelines for the implementation of the Law, and not as so far only for the control activities carried out. Another important change, which should be noted, relates to the introduction of new sanctions for non-compliances currently being dealt with. Such are cases of non-sendment within the time period of information subject to publication at national or European level, of unjustified termination of a procurement procedure, modification of a draft contract, without the conditions for it, and others. There is also a penalty for the unlawful replacement of a contractor or sub-contractor, with the aim of achieving a disciplinary effect on both parties to the contract. Punishment for repeated violations has also been settled. After the presentation and discussion of the Bill, a vote was held, which ended with the following results: with 14 votes...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u57	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Honourable Members of the National Assembly, these were the reports received on the bill under consideration. There are no reports from any other committees. I'm calling a break. At 12:00 we will continue discussing the bill. (After the break.)
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u58	Dear Members of Parliament, we are continuing our work on our weekly program. Before the break, we heard the reports of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Budget and Finance on the First Voting of the Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 802-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2018. We are moving on to the debates on this bill. I'm opening the discussion. Here you go, Mr. Mitev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u59	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members of Parliament, in fact this law and these changes have been waiting for quite a long time. I only recall that two years ago, when this was adopted, I would say a new public procurement law, it was envisaged that electronic procurement would be introduced as part of electronic management and as part of optimizing procurement and procurement procedures. And here, two years after the start of this process with the adoption of the Law, in implementation of the European Public Procurement Directive from 2014, in practice, the standards that were then adopted are further developed and we come to the point where we will finally have electronic procurement. I recall that under Paragraph 29 of the Transitional and Final Provisions of the current Public Procurement Act until 18 October 2018, electronic requests for participation should be made available in the procedures. This is also the main focus and purpose of this bill, which is of our attention today. The Public Procurement Agency for this purpose shall implement a Project for the introduction of a centralised electronic procurement platform with an external contractor selected in the order of the Public Procurement Act. In the process of setting up the platform, there is a need for amendments to the Law to allow it to be used and all relevant regulatory requirements to be applied to the electronic award should be in force by 18 October 2018 so that it is carried out on the relevant legal basis. In this regard, I take this opportunity to thank and congratulate the Public Procurement Agency, which has done a very good job of drawing up these changes. They are referred not only to the electronic award of public contracts, but also to a very thorough assessment of the subsequent impact on the application of the Public Procurement Act during these two years, and in practice, the changes are not limited to the electronic award alone, but also to the improvement of the regulatory framework for better implementation of the Public Procurement Act as a result of the deficiencies detected during those two years. Let's get back to electronic procurement. In my view, the main advantage of this electronic award is the increase in publicity and transparency in the procurement and in the execution of public procurement contracts, apart from the three main sources through which the principles of publicity and transparency are carried out,....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 20 of the Law; the Register of Public Procurement and the profile of the buyer will now be done with this new electronic platform, which predicts changes in the Law. In this way, better resource security of the platform is achieved and this will allow all information relating to the award of so-called small orders to be published in the Register of Public Procurement, notices for the collection of tenders, as well as information on the award in that order. In this way, we will have fullness of the public procurement database, stakeholders will be able to make full use of search opportunities, including by pre-set criteria. It is the small public procurements, which we know in many cases that focus public attention on being admitted to their award and in the conduct of their infringements, in this case they will be sanctified and will be much more focused on the attention of the public and not only on the participants in the contract concerned. Contracting entities will maintain their buyer profiles on the electronic platform, but this will happen at a later stage, as the introduction of the electronic platform is intended to take place in several stages. I would also note the greater speed that will be achieved with the amendments to the Public Procurement Act. The time limits for receiving tenders are reduced by five days, which is, of course, followed by the electronic award and by the speed that electronic communication provides in these cases. Next, apart from the changes relating to the introduction of electronic awards in public procurement procedures, we should also pay attention to the second part of the bill, which focused heavily on the implementation of the Law during those two years. Here they stand out, at least for me, two basic lines: on the one hand, we have increased control in part of the provisions. For example, in art. 229 value thresholds for public contracts subject to ex ante control are set, thereby extending its scope and aiming to cover all significant public contracts where significant financial resources are spent and in respect of which there is great public interest. With the introduction of the new random control thresholds, the focus is on larger contracts with a higher degree of risk, as control is currently subject to very low values procedures, which, on the one hand, leads to less efficiency and, on the other hand, our control focuses on those public procurements, which are of great value, which represent a greater degree of public interest. At the new threshold, around 17% of the construction contracts, 19% of the supply contracts and 15% of the service contracts will participate in the sample. Their value is 87%, 86% and 89% of the contracts awarded in the country respectively. When controlling negotiation and amendments to contracts, lower thresholds are proposed, increasing the number of procedures and contracts examined, including those at the national threshold in this case. Additional conditions relating to the control of amendments to public procurement contracts are introduced, which is also an advantage and achievement and development of control over procedures. This type of control is intended to be carried out when the contract is equal to or higher than the thresholds proposed in art. 20 of the Law. I will also draw attention to the final part of the bill, which includes new administrative penal provisions and compositions for violations of public procurement, which until now did not exist in the Public Procurement Act. A penalty for violation of Art. 11 shall be envisaged. Art. 5 and art. 150 para. Four of the ZOPs. Those rules lay down prohibitions for civil contracts, for contracts in defence and security fields, for the award by common contract of diverse activities for which the Law provides for a different order where this is done for the purpose of applying lighter rules or leads to the exclusion of the contract from the scope of the Law. At present, there is no penalty for breach of those rules, and in this respect, the Bill should definitely meet our support. A penalty for non-compliance with the requirements of provisions introducing an exception from the scope of the Law is also introduced mainly on the conclusion of contracts under the conditions of award in house, the application of those rules is permissible only if the conditions expressly laid down therein are met. By dropping the terms and conditions, contracting entities should terminate the relevant contracts and award the activities under the Law. At the moment, non-compliance with this obligation has not been strengthened by a sanction which, at the risk of repeating itself, is also a situation in the Law which should be supported and admired. A penalty shall be introduced for breach of provisions laying down certain requirements and prohibitions which contracting entities must comply with when determining the performance of the evaluation of tenders. A sanction is proposed for the provision of art. 70, para. 7 of the Public Procurement Act, which lays down requirements for contracting entities when determining each of the selected indicators for the evaluation of tenders. Failure to comply with this provision is a material breach which could directly affect the choice of contractor to the most appropriate tender to meet the needs of the contracting entity. In addition, a new administrative-strengthening provision is envisaged concerning cases of unjustified modification of the draft contract in its conclusion, violation of the prohibition on the conclusion of a contract before the expiry of the 14-day period of notification to the participants of the choice of contractor, as well as cases of signing a contract before the entry into force of all decisions of the contracting entity. A penalty shall also be introduced for cases of unjustified termination of a procurement procedure, as well as for non-payment within the time limit of the information subject to publication at national and European level, which is directly linked to the principle of publicity and transparency that I have already mentioned. In the practice of implementing the Law, there are cases where actual contractors, respectively subcontractors, are replaced by other persons, without the conditions laid down in the Law, which also provides for a sanction with the introduction of a new provision in the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement. Finally, there is also a penalty for cases where infringements have been repeated, respectively the Additional Provisions introduce the concept and definition of repetition. I believe that these changes will not only speed up procurement and procurement procedures, but to a much greater extent will show the principles of publicity and transparency, particularly with regard to the control and implementation of these administrative criminal provisions, protect the public interest and we will have much more effective control over the conduct of public procurement procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u60	Thank you, Mr. Mitev. Are there any lines? I don't see any MPs who want it. Professor Gechev, you asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u61	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! We generally support this step in the Public Procurement Act, as we believe, firstly, that this is a proper step towards harmonizing Bulgarian legislation in this area with European Commission legislation, including the directive which obliges us by 18 October to be ready for the new mechanism. At the same time, I would like to express some warnings and objections at the following points. Firstly, we believe that the introduction of this bill has been delayed, as the deadline is 18 October, and we are discussing it in plenary at the end of September. Our real concern is that Bulgarian citizens, companies, legal entities and relevant contractors will not have enough time to prepare under this law and participate in the procedure. Furthermore, it is not acceptable, honourable Members, minutes before the beginning of the meeting, for example to propose to the Commission such an important Bill of Bills of levs, which is why, for your information, in the Economic Commission, we did not accept the proposal that it should be dealt with extra without proper preparation and contrary to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, but we see that today in plenary we are discussing this Billion Act, given that it has not been dealt with in the Economic Commission, but has been examined in the Budget Commission. It has not been examined in other committees of the National Assembly, which means that the ruling coalition does not prepare its laws in time, is pressing us, which is why the danger of making the wrong decisions is real. Secondly, right now we want to say that we will insist and make proposals between first and second readings not to allow companies that have not paid back the Bulgarian state, have not paid their taxes, to be admitted to a public procurement procedure. It is true that in the European directive, fellow Members, it says to one percentage. It's not mandatory that one percent. We insist explicitly to stress: to be so good the companies that have not paid back the Bulgarian state have not paid their taxes, it may be a penny, they may not be allowed to these procedures. They cannot be admitted to such procedures and companies, which owe several tens of thousands or several hundred thousand levs, cannot be admitted to orders for tens and hundreds of millions. Thirdly, between first and second readings, we will make proposals to strengthen control in the relations between the contractor and subcontractors, because, honourable Members, you know, this is not a political issue, but there are unfair ones, I would say, contractors with illegal behaviour, which led a number of companies and subcontractors to bankruptcy, as they collect the money under the contract, do not pay with subcontractors, especially in the final phase of execution of orders, and this leads to bankruptcy of Bulgarian companies, loss of jobs, loss of gross domestic product. So by supporting this step, we will also make concrete proposals between first and second readings to avoid any defects in the adoption of this law. In conclusion, we are racing again, taking risks again with the quality of legislation that passes through parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u62	Thank you, Professor Gechev. A line? Mr. Kirilov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u63	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Professor Gechev, I disagree with your speech and with a number of statements you have made from the parliamentary platform. Yes, the bill is important, it is a serious step in the development of legislation regarding public procurement, but it is the result of a properly implemented, normally timed legislative procedure of the Council of Ministers and, respectively, of agencies which are directly competent in the development of this legislation. The paper is complete with all evidence of a co-ordination procedure and public consultation before the decision is taken by the Council of Ministers. Opinions of employers and business organizations are also applied. I would say that in a phase of government legislative initiative, this bill is working precisely, strictly and according to the requirements of the law and our regulations for this. Regarding which committee has seen it and which has not seen it, I declare that the Committee on Legal Affairs, which is led by the order of the President of the National Assembly, discussed the bill. It is obvious that the other committees involved had the opportunity to comply with the movement of the committee responsible. Without neglecting the opinion of the Economic Commission in any way, but you had a real opportunity, as colleagues of the Legal Committee had, if you had considered, to discuss this bill at a meeting last week of your committee. With regard to the deadline, this bill was submitted to the National Assembly on 23 August 2018, that is to say, more than one month it has been uploaded to the National Assembly's website and allocated to the committees according to the order, so that each colleague could get acquainted with the reasons, both with the proposals for amendment and supplement of the norms and with the annexes. Once again, this time all the references to the Law on Legislative Acts are in place and the bill is complete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u64	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Are there any other lines to Professor Gechev's statement? I can't see. Professor, you have an opportunity for a doppelganger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u65	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Kirilov, I therefore said that we generally support the Bill because it meets European policy and undoubtedly its spirit will contribute to the lightening of the process, but I cannot agree with your note. Look, the deadline is October 18th, but in the discussion in the Budget Committee it was stated by the Chair of the Agency that they are not sure that they will be ready by October 18th. There's a protocol here. If you get out of here before October 18th and say you want an extension, it's better to extend the deadline than to make a crappy system that compromises the system. Who's right we'll find out by October 18th, but the Agency says they're not ready and they're worried about the deadline. They said, and maybe now they'll have a chance to respond. Secondly, of course it was introduced at the end of August, but it is not a serious law for billions of levs the government brings it to parliament at the end of August and the deadline is 18 October. Furthermore, colleague, there is no way for us to guess from the opposition, and every member of the government, which law will be dealt with on Wednesday or Thursday in the committees. Many times we have said that Bulgaria follows the system of surprise. We're waiting Tuesday afternoon for what we're going to look at on Wednesday. These are laws of several hundred pages. Some Russian Roulette is playing in our parliament what the rulers will offer us on Wednesday and Thursday in the committees. Yes, perhaps this is not a very new practice, but it is not good for the Bulgarian Parliament, because the quality of the laws is under any criticism. You know, my colleague, we have dozens of amendments to individual laws Monday we accept it, on Friday we correct it. Why? For that reason. Look, you can't ignore a committee like the Economics. We're talking billions of levs here. Okay, we saw it on the Budget Committee on short notice. In the Economic Commission, the votes were eight to eight. We cannot be offered in two hours and three minutes a new item on the agenda of several hundred pages of laws for billions of levs. You can't help but agree that this isn't right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u66	Thank you, Professor Gechev. Are there any other statements? Come in for a statement, Mr. Milkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u67	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! The law was reviewed by the Legal Commission. I will repeat what I said there, with some additions, so that when making a decision you can also consider our arguments. Undoubtedly, for all those who have dealt with public procurement, as I have for many years, the process to be electronic, is positive. Electronic procurement would lead to a uniformity of the procedure for both contracting entities and for the participants, which should ultimately have a beneficial effect as a principle, but the regulatory re-creation of a good idea, as well as its technical implementation, are the dangers that we need to bear in mind and all of us should be able to properly assess so that the system can work well. Electronic systems give their plus, their bonus, but they are also easily vulnerable, as we have seen with the Trade Register this year. And if in the Trade Register the blow was on the entries and private turnover, here a possible technical problem or attack, which is also not excluded, would have affected the spending of public funds, which would have a major impact on the state. We at the Legal Committee have been talking about this for a long time. Representatives of the company were also present. It became clear that the project was divided into two stages. In this case, legal changes are proposed, although the material is 154 pages affecting only the first stage of the introduction of the electronic system, i.e. even what Professor Gechev said on October 18th, on October 18th whether/or if something starts to work, this will not be the whole system. This will be the first stage with certain functionalities. For me, I also spoke in the Legal Commission, and now it would be more right for the system to be built in its entirety, with all the functionalities, to test it and then be introduced, and we should adopt the regulatory decisions. To be fair, I want to report the positive things in the Bill. I'm gonna go through them and then I'm gonna tell you a few things that bother me. It is certainly positive that I consider the electronic service of documents, which will align the beginning of the time limits for all participants, but it must be taken into account in the case and the introduction by the law of the term of service. So far, there has been talk of sending, and in the Bill in certain places the Law continues to speak of sending, that is to say, now a return and sending, are being used at the same time. It is positive that sending to the service in the European Union is done through our electronic system and not done by contracting entities separately. It is positive to upload to the platform of small orders; the prior publication of the sub-contracts also, the possibility is not to be filled in continuously by the participants for each procedure and once filled in the system, the data to be retained, you know the volume of the sub-contracts, and only in the case of changes to be awarded. For a positive reading, I also consider reducing the time limits by five days, which will speed up the turnover. The electronic invoices and payment, but in my opinion, the system which is the subject of discussion here, in general, the possibilities of public contracting entities in Bulgaria, in my view, will not allow the two deadlines in the directive to be met, namely by 18 April 2019, for the central contracting entities to introduce the electronic payment and a year later by April 2020, and local ones. I believe that this is technically unfulfilled. The measures for establishing uniform practice are also positive because you may know that the authorities involved in the process have often given conflicting practices in the same texts and contracting entities and participants have been stressed by the different interpretation of the same text by the AOP, by the Court of Auditors, ADFIs or the SAC department, which they dealt with, or even more by the managing authorities subsequently, which even after years reviewed the procedures. So the measures to align the practice for me are also positive. In my opinion, however, you cannot support and raise questions to track things. The storage of documents that are uploaded into the system, they will be electronic documents, it is envisaged to be three years, and then, after this period of three years, for five years they will be stored under the Law on Electronic Governance, that is, in the first three years, every citizen from anywhere will be able to be informed about the documents, after the third year they will still be stored, but not in the same public domain, and then I think access will be restricted. This cannot be shared, and I am making an analogy again with the Commercial Register. The documents under each procedure, which have been uploaded once and became public, must be accessible to every citizen. We witnessed accidents, unfortunately, with the path we were asking ourselves what the technical assignment was, what the project was, what the offer was. All answers to this would be available if the documentation remained in the system as uploaded, not limited to time. It should be borne in mind that the change in value thresholds and their increase ultimately leads to the cost of more public funds with less procedures. "Relieved" means: at greater speed and less publicity, those that have been used until recently to spend less money. Attention should also be given to the proposed changes that allow for the negotiation procedures without notice and in the low value procedures, the circumstances which in all other cases lead to the removal of the participant, in this case not to be removed but to be allowed. Something that cannot be accepted is the proposed cancellation of the entry into force of decisions under the Administrative Procedure Code, which so far also applies to the decisions under the Public Procurement Act. This possibility of falling.. this means that an entire legal institute of protection will be dropped, and for me the arguments here in the reasons are untenable. Because declaring a decision illegal will not remove the road or building that has been built, but declaring the decision illegal will lead to sanctions for the contracting entity, will also improve its work, and the work of all public entities of the contracting entities, because every decision in administrative justice has such a function. And I will finally sum up: as my colleague Mitev said before me, new compositions of administrative penal provisions are being created, but in my opinion it is ultimately debatable whether the control is increasing because the provision for the appointment of observers in the committees is dropping, the assistance of control with external experts is limited, the control of the treaty amendments is being limited, the second stage of control of the procedures carried out under national order is falling out of control in procedures over negotiations with suppliers of monopoly with rights that are regulatoryly regulated electricity, gas, water, the preliminary control of art. 234 on some of the exceptions to the scope of the TPO. In view of all of this, saying that I support the goal, but with all those things that I have outlined to you and coming back to the fact that the system needs to be prepared technically, legally, fully tested and then released, we will abstain from support. [[Single applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u68	Thank you, Mr. Milkov. Are there any lines to the speech of the MP Pencho Milkov? I don't see any line requests. Any other speeches? There are no willing MPs. I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 802-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2018. They voted 113 MPs: 97, none, abstentioned 16. The motion is accepted. This was adopted in the first vote Draft amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, No 802-01-28, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 1 August 2018. Mr. Kirilov, please come in for a procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u69	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! I want a procedure for extending the period between the first and second readings of the bill adopted at first reading amending the Commercial Law, No 702-01-48, which expires today. I propose to my colleagues an extension of the deadline for proposals by six days and that this deadline will expire on 25 September 2018, at 18.00 p.m. That's next Tuesday. Colleagues from the other parliamentary groups will obviously make proposals. We are ready with our proposals, but they also have the possibility of proposals between first and second readings, although this bill also has a deadline, and is urgent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u70	Thank you, Mr. Kirilov. Before we vote on your proposal, is there a reverse proposal? I can't see. We are going to vote on the proposed extension by six days of the Bill amending the Commercial Law. Vote 116 MPs: for 114, against none, abstention 2. The proposal to extend the deadline has been accepted. We move to the next item on the agenda: In accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation, any revenue may give rise to the provision of additional appropriations in accordance with Article 21 of the Financial Regulation. Here you are, Mr. Nunev, to brief us on the Internal Security and Public Order Report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u71	Dear colleagues! On the basis of art. 49, para. 2 of the Rules of Organization and Activity of the National Assembly, please allow Krasimir Tzipov to be admitted to the Chamber "Deputy Minister of the Interior," and Ventsislav Karadjov "President of the Commission for Personal Data Protection."
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u72	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. We vote on the proposal for admission to the House of Gentlemen Krasimir Tsipov and Ventsislav Karadjov. Vote 104 MPs: for 103, there is no abstention 1. The motion is accepted. Please, the Quaestors, invite the gentlemen Tzipov and Karadzhov to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u73	♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018. At its meeting held on 12 September 2018, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee examined and discussed the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018. The meeting was attended by the Ministry of Interior: Krasimir Tzipov On behalf of the importers, the bill was presented by Krasimir Tsipov. In its statement, the importer noted that the main immediate purpose of the proposed amendments and additions to the Personal Data Protection Act is to ensure the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data in accordance with Regulation (EU) 2016/679, as well as the introduction into national law of the requirements of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of penalties and on the free movement of such data. In this way, the following strategic objectives shall also be ensured: - to increase the effectiveness of the application of the fundamental right of protection of personal data in the Republic of Bulgaria (Art. 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union and art. 16 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union) and to ensure that individuals have control over their data; - to achieve a comprehensive and thorough synchronization of the national legal framework with European data protection legislation; - ensure consistency of the legal framework at national level in the field of data protection; - reduce the administrative burden on personal data controllers; - to improve specific rules for the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of penalties, including the protection against threats to public security and their prevention, taking into account the specific nature of those activities; - ensure the free movement of personal data between the EU Member States providing a homogeneous and high level of protection of personal data of natural persons and facilitating the exchange of personal data between the competent authorities of the Member States. The objectives set by the regulatory change are fully in line with the strategic framework in force. Those objectives are also laid down in the Personal Data Protection Commission (Personal Data Protection Strategy) adopted in 2017. Horizon 2022. For its part, the Strategy is in line with the National Development Programme Bulgaria 2020 and the Strategy for the Development of the State Administration 2014-2020, thus ensuring compliance with the national strategic framework, which has a sub-sector scope. The draft Law significantly expands the tasks and powers of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data as the sole supervisory authority in the Republic of Bulgaria, responsible for protecting the fundamental rights and freedoms of natural persons in relation to the processing and facilitation of the free movement of personal data within the European Union, including powers of investigation, corrective powers, powers to grant permissions and opinions, as well as maintaining new public and non-public registers. The Personal Data Protection Commission shall also be designated as an authority competent to accredit certification bodies in the field of personal data protection. The draft law regulates both the issues on which Member States are left free and the issues which require the explicit introduction of legislative measures at national level in order to ensure the implementation of the new legislative package in the area of personal data protection. The coding of the matter relating to the protection of personal data ensures legal certainty for personal data controllers, processors and data subjects and will result in ease of enforcement due to the simplification of the regulatory framework. The regulation significantly extends the current concept apparatus in the area of personal data protection. The proposed legislative changes update the terminology used in accordance with Regulation 2016/679 and Directive 2016/680. The Commission will maintain a register of administrators who have designated data protection officials, a register of accredited certification bodies and a register of codes of conduct. The bill proposes more detailed regulation of individual groups of public relations such as the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and information, including for journalistic purposes, and for the purposes of academic, artistic or literary expression, processing of personal data in the context of employment/service relations, legal regulation in special laws of public access to EGN. The draft law also regulates cases of direct provision of services to the information society. Where the data subject is a person under 14 years of age, processing is lawful only if consent is given by the parent exercising parental rights or by the data subject's guardian. In view of the wide variety of matter covered by the General Regulation, respectively, by the Personal Data Protection Act, the proposed amendments provide for a legislative delegation for the adoption of regulations as a certification regulation, as well as abnormal documents such as the minimum requirements for systematic video surveillance of publicly available areas, as well as for automated decision-making, including profiling. Unlike the previous regulation, the Law uniformises the provisions on the protection of personal data at national level and international exchange in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. This ensures a homogeneous and high level of protection of personal data and facilitates the exchange of information with the competent authorities of the other Member States of the European Union, which is crucial for the effective implementation of such cooperation. The Draft Law describes detailed definitions of key concepts in the area of personal data, the principles relating to the processing of personal data, the powers of the controller and processor, the conditions for the processing of specific categories of personal data, the conditions for cross-border data exchange both at European Union level and with third countries or international organisations, the rights of the data subject and the means of legal protection of the affected person, the security measures for personal data, etc. In accordance with the requirements of art. 19th para. 2 in relation to Art. 20, para. 2 of the Law on Regulatory Acts a preliminary assessment of the impact of the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Personal Data has been carried out. In accordance with art. 26, para. 2 and 4 of the Law on the Legal Acts under the Law were conducted public consultations with citizens and legal entities. Mr. Karadzhov stressed that the bill will ease law enforcement by simplifying the regulatory framework and reducing it to one law. An amendment to standards which are not in accordance with the philosophy and spirit of the general regulation is proposed. Standards are in place that are in line with the directive in the field of police and internal affairs. The hypotheses for the processing of personal data for the purposes of backup in the public interest are also regulated. Over 80 meetings were held with more than 5,000 interested parties. With regard to law enforcement, attention should be paid to sector training. The Commission also received opinions from the Chamber of Road Carriers in Bulgaria, from the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators, from the Bulgarian Association of Management Companies and from the National Association of Municipalities in the Republic of Bulgaria with notes and comments, as well as proposals for more detailed regulation and definition of some of the proposed texts in the Draft. During the debates Mr. Tsvetanov proposed to examine and discuss the opinions received in a working group with the participation of experts and representatives of the importers and if necessary to specify the proposed texts of the Bill. On the basis of the vote carried out, the Internal Security and Public Order Committee, with 17 votes for the Privacy Protection Act, No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Personal Data Protection Act.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u74	Thank you, Mr. Nunev. There has been a report from the Commission on the control of the security services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications. The report will introduce us to the President of the Commission Mr. Lazarov. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u75	Dear Mr. Chairman! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018. At a meeting held on 13 September 2018, the Security Services Control Commission, the application and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act discussed a Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018. The meeting was attended by Mr. Krasimir Tzipov, Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr. Ventsislav Karadzhov, Chairman of the Commission for Personal Data Protection, and Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman of the State Agency. The bill and the reasons for its submission were presented by Mr. Krasimir Tzipov "Deputy Minister of Interior." He pointed out that it aims to ensure the effective implementation of Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC, as well as the introduction into national law of Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of penalties and on the free movement of such data and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA (Council Directive (EU) 2016/680). The Law uniformises the provisions on the protection of personal data at national level and international exchange in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. This ensures a homogeneous and high level of protection of personal data and facilitates the exchange of information with the competent authorities of the other Member States of the European Union, which is crucial for the effective implementation of such cooperation. Since the General Data Protection Regulation and Directive (EU) 2016/680 do not apply to the processing of personal data in the course of activities which are outside the scope of EU law, the Bill contains an explicit provision that, as far as a special law does not provide otherwise, the Personal Data Protection Act does not apply to the processing of personal data for the purpose of the defence of the Party and national security. In this regard, paragraphs 33, 35, 36, 37 and 52 have been proposed by the relevant amendments and additions to the Law on State Agency "National Security" and the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, the Law on the National Security Service, the Law on Military Intelligence and the Law on the State Agency "Research." After the discussion, in which the MPs expressed their support to the Draft, the Commission with 5 votes for the Law No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018, proposed to the National Assembly to adopt a draft amendment and supplement to the Personal Data Protection Act No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u76	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. There is a report from the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds. Here you are, Mr. Vigenin, to brief us on the report.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u77	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Honourable Members of the National Assembly! ♪ I can't believe on a bill amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018. At its regular meeting on 12 September 2018, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018. The bill was presented by Mr. Krasimir Tsipov. The meeting was attended by Mrs. Maria Rangelova, personal data protection officer in the same ministry, and Mr. Ventsislav Karadzhov, Chairman of the Commission for Personal Data Protection. The objectives of the Bill are aimed at ensuring the effective implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation and the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State of the European Union in relation to the introduction into the national legislation of a legislative act (directive) of the European Union, which lays down the specific rules concerning the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences or the execution of penalties, including the protection against threats to public order and security and their prevention. In 2012, the European Commission initiated the adoption of a completely new legal framework for the protection of personal data within the Union. After 4 years of intensive negotiations, on 4 May 2016 in the Official Journal of the European Union (EU) were promulgated: - Regulation (EU) 2016/679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46/EC (General Data Protection Regulation), and - Directive (EU) 2016/680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of penalties and on the free movement of such data and repealing Council Framework Decision 2008/977/JHA (Directive (EU) 2016/680). As regards the General Data Protection Regulation, it is envisaged to postpone the application of its provisions with effect from 25 May 2018. The time limit for transposition of Directive (EU) 2016/680 is 6 May 2018. Personal data protection policy has an extremely horizontal nature, affecting almost all areas of life and business sectors. This fact has been taken into account by the European legislators when adopting the General Data Protection Regulation, as a result of which there is a comprehensive and legally complex legislative act. From the point of view of EU law, the regulation is directly applicable and binding in its entirety. Its aim is to ensure uniform application of Union law in all Member States. The draft law provides for the regulation of both the issues on which Member States are free and the issues which require the explicit introduction of legislative measures at national level in order to ensure the implementation of the new legislative package in the area of personal data protection. Part of the national legislative decisions to be introduced through the draft Law on the protection of personal data include: an updated concept apparatus which, on the basis of the Regulation, significantly expands the so far in the field and the proposed legislative changes, the terminology used is updated in accordance with Regulation 2016/679 and Directive 2016/680; as of 25 May 2018, the obligation to register personal data controllers in the Commission for the protection of personal data is dropped out and, therefore, the current draft is abolished; according to reasons, the draft proposed more detailed regulation of individual groups of public relations, such as the exercise of the right to freedom of expression and information, including for journalistic purposes and for the purposes of academic, artistic or literary expression, etc. Since the General Data Protection Regulation and EU Directive 2016/680 do not apply to the processing of personal data in the course of activities which are outside the scope of EU law, the Bill contains an explicit provision that, in so far as a special law does not provide otherwise, the Personal Data Protection Act does not apply to the processing of personal data for the purpose of the defence of the Party and national security. Importers note that the Draft Law describes detailed definitions of key concepts in the area of personal data, the principles relating to the processing of personal data, the powers of the controller and processor, the conditions for processing specific categories of personal data, the conditions for cross-border data exchange both at European Union level and with third countries or international organisations, and others. In the subsequent discussion, the President of the Commission on European Affairs and Control of European Funds informed that two opinions had been received to the Commission by the Bulgarian Association of Licensed Investment Mediators and the Bulgarian Association of Management Companies, with specific proposals to be addressed by the leading committee. The Chairman of KEVKEF also expressed his approval of the way in which the Bill was drawn up and the fact that the public discussions held led to many proposals that were largely adopted. Mr. Petar Petrov, Vice President of KEVKEF, asked for an explanation regarding the relationship between freedom of expression and personal data. Mr. Karadzhov explained that this concerns the use of personal data for journalistic purposes and the forms of derogation provided for in the Regulation, importers were able to maintain access to information in order not to disclose its source when the Commission carried out checks. As a result of the vote held after the discussion, the Committee on European Affairs and Control of the European Funds proposed by 4 votes to the National Assembly to adopt a Draft for amendment and supplement to the Personal Data Protection Act, No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u78	Thank you, Mr. Vigenin. The following is an opinion from an importer. Here you are, Deputy Minister Tzipov, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u79	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, the Personal Data Protection Bill was prepared by an interdepartmental working group under the leadership of the Ministry of Interior with representatives of all relevant ministries and departments, and representatives of the Commission for the Protection of Personal Data were actively involved in it. The adoption of national measures in relation to the implementation of the General Data Protection Regulation was necessary as the regulation itself contains a number of provisions that allow, and in some cases oblige, Member States to adopt national rules on certain matters, such as the establishment of the national supervisory authority, the introduction of restrictions on certain rights and obligations in order to ensure national security, the prevention of crime, the protection of judicial independence and other important objectives of significant public interest. [[Noise and lines.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u80	Please be quiet in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u81	The comprehensive digitalization of the world around us required a thorough rethink of the approaches related to the protection of personal data and privacy. A number of different solutions, including regulatory, institutional, organisational and technological, were proposed in a global, regional and national plan. Personal data protection policy has an extremely horizontal nature, as it affects almost all areas of life. This fact was also taken into account by European co-legitizers when adopting the General Data Protection Regulation, resulting in a comprehensive and legal act. From the point of view of European Union law, the Regulation is directly applicable and binding in its entirety and its aim is to ensure uniform application of Union law in all Member States. The regulation, unlike the directive, does not need transposition, as it has become clear from the Commission's report on European issues, with the most important challenge relating to the implementation of the General Regulation being the heterogeneous nature of its rules that remain possible and, in some cases, oblige lawmakers in the Member States to implement national measures and to adopt national implementing measures. In this regard, it can be said that it has some of the characteristics of the Directive. There are four groups of provisions in the Bill that require or allow the adoption of national rules. First of all is the group related to provisions relating to regulatory obligations. Such are the obligations of the Member States to settle certain aspects of the Regulation, such as the procedure for the constitution of the national supervisory authority. The second group is related to details regarding the application of the General Regulation in a specific context, such as the processing of personal data on grounds of legal obligation, public interest or official powers, such as the use of a national identifier, such as the Single Civil Number and others. Third, the legal choice or possibility, such as the setting of a minimum age for expressing consent by a child in the use of Information Society services or the imposition of administrative penalties on public authorities. In fourth place, exceptions and restrictions to certain rights under certain conditions, such as derogations in the processing of scientific or historical data, or for statistical or archive purposes, additional conditions for the processing of genetic or biometric data, or data relating to the health status of persons. The objectives of the Bill are also aimed at ensuring the effective implementation of the General Regulation and the fulfilment of the obligations of the Republic of Bulgaria as a Member State in relation to the introduction into our national legislation of the European Union Directive, which lays down the separate rules relating to the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of their personal data by competent authorities for the purposes of preventing, investigating, detecting or prosecuting criminal offences, or the execution of penalties, including the prevention of threats to public policy and security. Despite the different legal nature of the two acts, the analysis of their norms has shown that their synchronization with national legislation should be governed by a national legal act, as is the bill I present to your attention. This approach was most appropriate and the proposed amendments at the same time took measures to implement the Regulation and introduced the provisions of the Directive at national level. Some of the national legislative decisions proposed in the Bill are the following: updating the concept apparatus. The regulation significantly extends the current concept apparatus in the area of personal data protection. The proposed legislative changes update the terminology used in accordance with the provisions of the Regulation and the Directive. The registration of administrators is envisaged and the obligation to register personal data controllers in the Commission for the protection of personal data will be dropped from the end of May this year. This circumstance has been taken into account in the draft legislative amendments and additions, proposing the annulment of previous texts governing the mandatory registration of personal data controllers. Specific situations concerning the processing of personal data are also regulated: much more detailed regulation of individual groups of public relations is proposed, such as exercising the right to freedom of expression and information, including for journalistic purposes and for the purposes of academic, artistic and literary expression, the processing of personal data in the context of employment and business relationships, the regulation of specific laws of public access to identifiers, such as the Single Civil Number, the exclusion of deceased persons from the privacy circle. Administrative sanctions are also envisaged for public authorities. No distinction shall be envisaged in the plantation regime in the event of a breach of the rules on the protection of personal data between public and private administrators. The proposed amendments provide for a legislative delegation to adopt a number of regulations, such as a certification regulation, as well as certain other abnormal documents, such as the minimum requirements for systematically large-scale video surveillance of public accessible areas, as well as for automated decision-making. Unlike the current legislation, the provisions on the protection of personal data at national level and international exchange in the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters are uniform. This ensures a homogeneous and high level of protection of personal data and facilitates the exchange of information with the competent authorities of the other Member States of the European Union, and this is crucial for effective implementation of international cooperation. The draft draft outlines and detailed definitions of key concepts in the area of personal data, the principles relating to their processing and the powers of controllers and processors, the conditions for processing specific categories of personal data, the conditions for cross-border data exchange both at European Union level and with third countries or with international organisations. I would like to call on you to support the bill so tabled, because this is an extremely important act which introduces an extremely new matter relating to the protection of personal data. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u82	Thank you, Mr. Deputy Minister. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Here you are, Mr. Ahmedov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u83	Madam President, honourable Members! The proposed Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the protection of personal data in national law introduces the necessary national measures to implement Regulation No 679 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April of 2016. This Regulation concerns the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data and, for the beginning of its application, the date 25 May 2018. The provisions of Directive of the European Union No 680 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 27 April 2016 on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data by the competent authorities for the purposes of the prevention, investigation, detection or prosecution of criminal offences or the execution of penalties and the free movement of such data are also transferred. The transposition period was 6 May 2018, that is to say, there is a serious delay in the adoption of changes to our national laws. The main groups of amendments introduced by the draft are the reasons for the draft law, namely: detailed definitions of key concepts in the area of personal data are described, the principles relating to the processing of personal data, the powers of the controller and processor, the conditions for the processing of specific categories of personal data, the conditions for cross-border data exchange of both the European Commission and third world countries are outlined. These are moments whose regulation is undoubtedly necessary. The importers focused on the envisaged possibility of settling important issues such as the Commission's activities and the proceedings which develop before it, the criteria, certification mechanisms and procedures, seals and markings, as well as the procedure for registering in the Commission, the list of operations for which prior consultation with the Commission is required. This legal delegation is somewhat necessary, but I believe that it requires a swift and qualitative regulation of this type of public relations, whose settlement has been postponed until the adoption of the relevant regulations. In addition to delaying the adoption of the necessary amendments to the Law, the necessary prerequisites for their future practical application are still lacking and the state in the person of the executive should create conditions for this. The introduction of a national legal regulation to ensure the necessary prerequisites for the implementation of the changes introduced in the area of protection of personal data is a necessary process, which is why we, from the Movement for Rights and Freedoms, will support it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u84	Thank you, Mr. Ahmedov. Are there any lines? I won't. Are there any other statements? Are there any speeches? I won't. We are going to vote on the First Voting Draft amending and supplementing the Personal Data Protection Act, No 802-01-27, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 18 July 2018. Please vote. Vote 108 MPs: 108 against and abstention no. The proposed bill was adopted at first reading. For the procedure please, Mr. Tsvetanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u85	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Firstly, I would like to thank you for the full consensus on the bill, but in relation to proposals received in the Internal Commission and the talks we have had in the adoption of the Bill in the Internal Commission, we will set up a working group. I propose that the extension of the deadline for proposals on it and 7 be made 14 days so that the working group can do its job and the Members of Parliament, if they have proposals, have time to do them within this deadline. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u86	Thank you, Mr. Tsvetanov. Are there any other proposals or reverse proposals? I won't. We are voting on the proposal made by Mr. Tsvetan Tsvetanov to extend the period between first and second readings on the bill of 14 days. Please vote. 100 MPs voted: for 100, against and abstention there is no. The motion is accepted. We move to the next item on the adopted agenda: THE FIRST VOICE OF THE LAW FOR CHANGE AND COMPLIANCE OF THE LAW FOR THE PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION. Importer is the Council of Ministers. The proposal was submitted on 27 August 2018. Here you are, Mr. Lazarov, to present the Report of the Commission for Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence tools and access to data under the Law on Electronic Communications.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u87	This Regulation for the first vote on the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 802-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2018. At its regular meeting on 13 September 2018, the Commission for the Control of Security Services, the implementation and use of special intelligence means and access to data under the Electronic Communications Act examined the Draft Law amending and supplementing the Classified Information Protection Act, No 802-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2018. The meeting was attended by representatives of: the Ministry of Defence Mr. Anatoly Velichkov, Deputy Minister, Colonel Joseph Atanasov, Director of the Security Directorate and Mr. Dimitar Dimitrov, lawyer; from the State Agency of National Security and Mr. Dimitar Georgiev, Chairman, and Mrs. Violeta Krasteva, Director of the Directorate; the State Commission on Information Security, Mr. Ivan Pavlov, Vice-President, and Mrs. Kamelia Vasileva, Head of the Department. The President of the Commission gave the floor to the Deputy Minister of Defence Mr. Velichkov to present the bill on behalf of the importer. In his exhibition Mr. Velichkov pointed out that the amendment and the supplement of the Law on the Protection of Classified Information is related to the need to synchronise and adapt Bulgarian legislation with the European Strategic Framework and NATO, by improving the legal framework relating to the security of automated information systems or networks used to deal with classified information, as well as by supplementing the incompletes governing the connectivity between automated information systems, the AIS, for processing classified information with the AIS for non-classified information, including with public networks. The current legislation contains an explicit ban on the interconnection of the AIS or networks for the processing of classified information with such as non-classified, as well as a link to public networks such as the Internet and other similar electronic communications networks. 94 of the Classified Information Protection Act. This prohibition prevents the creation of links between communication and information systems processing different information, even though they may have the same purpose. Interrelated communication and information systems provide an opportunity to integrate and effectively use the created communication and information resources in order to exchange data, information, services and business. In order to resolve this problem, an interdepartmental expert working group has been established which has also drawn up this bill. The proposed changes to ensure the connectivity of the AIS for the processing of classified information with non-classified information or the Internet will enable more efficient and efficient performance of functional duties of the organisational units, including the provision of national security and defence of the Republic of Bulgaria and the performance of specific tasks related to membership in the European Union and NATO, for example, in the case of participation in joint missions and/or operations. The order to connect the AIS or classified information processing networks with non-classified information or the Internet will be strictly defined. A form for partial preliminary impact assessment and consultation by the Ministry of Justice on its compliance with the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms and with the practice of the European Court of Human Rights has been attached to the Bill. Support for the bill was expressed by the President of SANS Mr. Georgiev and the Vice-President of DXI Mr. Ivan Pavlov. A specific question regarding the scope of certification asked the national representative Tsvetan Tsvetanov. He noted that the model established in Germany is very good and recommended its study. The National Representative Dimitar Lazarov definitely supported the draft Law, stating the need for coordination of terminology in the Bill with the draft Law on Cybersecurity. As a result of the discussion and the subsequent vote, the Commission, with 5 votes in favour of.....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-BG_2018-09-19.u88	Thank you, Mr. Lazarov. There are no reports from the Defence Committee, as well as from the Internal Security and Public Order Committee. I'm opening the debate. Are there any speeches? Is there anyone who wants to make a statement? I won't. We are voting for a bill amending and supplementing the Law on the Protection of Classified Information, No 802-01-32, submitted by the Council of Ministers on 27 August 2018. Please vote. Vote 96 MPs: 94, none, abstention 2. The motion is accepted. Dear Members of Parliament, we have completed our work on the agenda for today. We continue tomorrow, 9:00 p.m., with a regular meeting according to the adopted agenda. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
