ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u1	[[PHONE RINGING]] There's a quorum. I'm opening the meeting. Colleagues, you know, today at 9:00, we start with: PARLIAMENT CONTROL. New questions concerning the period from 9 February 2018 to 15 February 2018: A question was received by the MPs Teodora Halacheva and Petar Vitanov to Biser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, on the implementation of the National Strategy for the Child 2008 - 2018. It should be answered in the plenary session on 23 February 2018. A question was received from the National Representative Georgi Gokov to Bisser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, on the policies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy on the implementation of the Recommendation of the Council of the European Union (2016/C 67/01) on the integration of long-term unemployed people into the labour market. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 23 February 2018. A request was received from the MP Krasimir Yankov to Valentin Radev on the organization of the Ministry of Interior for the territorial service of the population. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 23 February 2018. There was a question from the MP Dora Yankova to Bisser Petkov, Minister of Labour and Social Policy, about promoting the active life of the elderly. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 23 February 2018. There has been a request from the MP Alexander Pawnov to Krasimir Karakachanov, Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Minister of Defence, concerning the construction of an Integrated Centre for Vocational Military Training. The reply should be made in the plenary sitting on 23 February 2018. Written response from: - Deputy Prime Minister Tomislav Donchev on a question from the National Representative Georgi Gokov; - Deputy Prime Minister for Public Order and Security and Defence Minister Krasimir Karakachanov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Transport, Information Technology and Communications Ivaylo Moskovski on a question from the National Representative Valentina Naydenova; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to two questions from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Kristina Sidorova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the MP Yordan Mladenov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Lalo Kirilov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Milko Nedyalkov; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov of eight questions from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the National Representative Pencho Milkov; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev to a question from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Stanislav Vladimirov and Lyubomir Bonev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on 12 questions from the National Representative Nadia Klisurska-Zekova; - Minister of Regional Development and Public Works Nikolay Nankov on a question from the National Representative Simeon Simeonov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Nigyar Jaffer; - Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev on a question from the MPs Filip Popov and Tsvetan Topchiev; - Minister of Finance Vladislav Goranov on 10 questions from the National Representative Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Hristo Prodanov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forestry Rumen Porozhanov on a question from the National Representative Boris Vangelov; - Minister of Agriculture, Food and Forests Rumen Porozhanov on two questions from the National Representative Svetla Bachvarova; - Minister of Economy Emil Karanikolov on a question from the National Representative Dimitar Danchev; - Minister of Environment and Water Neno Dimov on a question from the MPs Georgi Stoilov and Ivan Dimov Ivanov; - Minister of Education and Science Krasimir Valchev on a question from the National Representative Milen Mihov; - Minister of Interior Valentin Radev on a question from the National Representative Teodora Halacheva. Colleagues, we're moving on to today's parliamentary control. The first question is to the Minister of Health Kiril Ananiev. The question is from the MP Petar Petrov about the decision of the case with the closed hospital for tuberculosis diseases in Sliven. [[National Representative Toma Bikov wants the floor for a declaration on behalf of a group.]] Welcome to the Declaration on behalf of a group, Mr. Bikov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u2	Member of the Commission. - Madam President, honourable Members, in the last two days, both in the public domain and in the plenary, the issue of the scandal of the revaluation of political violence within the totalitarian regime is debated. Yesterday we had a Declaration of the Parliamentary Group in which we called on BSP to withdraw Mr. Jablyanov as Vice-President of the Parliament. Of course, the latest appearances and alternative opinions of Mr. Zablyanov are only a reason for this request. We have seen the systematic destruction of political and important political consensus for the whole country for 5 months, including the Treaty of Friendship between Bulgaria and Macedonia, in which Mr. Zablyanov was the only MP in parliament who opposed. We do not have a problem with personal opinion, but we do have a problem when the Presidency of Parliament does not express the common position of Parliament, but expresses its personal opinion. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u3	Please be quiet in this room, colleagues!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u4	Personal opinion can be expressed when you are standing in the Chamber as a Member of the National Assembly. That is why we do not want Mr. Zablyanov's resignation as a representative of the National Assembly. But when you're vice-president of parliament, you represent the entire parliament. And when you are Vice-President of Parliament, you have an opinion, even different from your party. Because as I understand it, yesterday you said you had a different opinion on the matter. As far as I can tell?!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u5	You didn't understand anything.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u6	I guess I didn't get it. I guess I'm in no condition and we're not able to figure out what's being said in your bipolar state. Because we, first, hear one thing, then see another, and then I realize that you're thinking third. Your psychological condition is not our problem. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u7	Mr. Bikov, please, no such definitions!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u8	Therefore, from now on, we are obliged to grant our political request, and it is that we are starting to collect signatures for Mr. Zablyanov's resignation as Vice-President of Parliament from this moment on.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u9	On what grounds?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u10	On the basis of a systematic violation of the Rules of the National Assembly. [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u11	Please be quiet!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u12	Our reasons will also be legal, but we think it is healthy to help you too, because obviously your party authorities have atrophied and are unable to make a clear political decision. Let's help you... [[Noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u13	Mr. Bikov, please!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u14	... you form an adequate position with regard to national consensus related to political violence and related to political consensus around topics that should not be reviewed for us. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u15	Thank you, dear Mr. Bikov. Here you are, Mr. Boychev, on behalf of a group.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u16	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! It is only natural that when there is parliamentary control, there will always be more passions. I must congratulate colleagues from GERB very successfully, very skillfully use the historical topics, going back in history and trying to draw arguments, and trying to cover the real problems of Bulgarian society and the real problems of Bulgarian citizens at the moment. Congratulations, Mr. Bikov, you're doing well! Another question is whether Bulgarian citizens will understand it. What we will categorically oppose is this attempt of yours to shift the topics. Because if there is a topic that needs to be on the agenda in the Bulgarian National Assembly today and I have to take away the energy of the National Assembly, and it has to heat up the passions here, it is: [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I understand that by trying to put us back in history, you're trying to escape this debate.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u17	We didn't, you brought us back.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u18	But I am reading the letter of 13 February 2018, which is to the Bulgarian Parliament of the Director of the National Health Insurance Fund, who is the Director of your proposal, who, notice, says the following: "To the beginning of 2018 the liabilities of the National Health Insurance Fund to foreign health funds amount to more than 271 million. lv. [[(Voices in "BSP for Bulgaria" (Voices in "BSP for Bulgaria") (Voices in "BSP for Bulgaria") (Voices in "BSP for ……]] It's a disturbing fact! It is a disturbing fact that signals have been received from health-insured persons who have been granted authorisations for planning treatment outside Bulgaria, but they have been denied the provision of planner compensation from the health care accounts to EU member states. Notice what the director of the National Health Insurance Fund says. On the basis of the Health Insurance Act, it proposes an update of the budget of the Health Insurance Fund by 140 million. lv. [[Applause from BSP for Bulgaria.]] I understand that you will be running away from this debate because you have full responsibility for the state of the health system. We will not allow you with topics and with an attempt to make a historical interpretation of the facts of our history to try to cover the real problems of Bulgarian citizens. Expect this debate from us. Thank you. [[Applause from the BSP for Bulgaria.................................................................]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u19	Thank you, Mr. Boychev. We move on to the first question, as I announced by the MP Petar Petrov on the decision of the case for the closed hospital for tuberculosis diseases. [[The National Representative Slavcho Velkov wants the floor for a procedure in the manner of conduct.]] Here you go, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u20	Thank you, Madam President. I will only address you and only you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u21	Which I'd be grateful for.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u22	I'd like you to tell Mr. Minister who's here right now.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u23	Tell him you'll do it.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u24	Well, you know, I'm calling you. Mr. Minister, don't try to threaten a Bulgarian professor to call him into your office, to ask for his resignation... [[Strong noise and lines from GERB.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u25	In the manner of conduct, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u26	In the manner of conduct, yes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u27	It's the way it's supposed to be.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u28	Here, through you, Madam President, I am telling you that this is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u29	It's a different procedure.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u30	Yesterday he was threatened again Professor Plotchev that...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u31	Mr. Velkov, please! Mr. Velkov...!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u32	Be prepared for this debate and the Minister will be ready to say... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off. Loud noise. Crashing banks.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u33	The way you're holding me, Mr. Velkov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u34	You put the Cashier's budget at zero, and now it's at 270 million minus. Don't try... [[The speaker continues to speak with microphones off. Loud noise. Crashing banks.]] Thank you. We're not scared of anything! [[Loud noise. Claps from the BSP for Bulgaria.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u35	Thank you, Mr. Velkov. After all, we move on to the first question to the Minister of Health. Mr. Petrov, please read the question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u36	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members of Parliament, I want you to look to the left and see how the MPs of BSP leave when I want to ask a question about Bulgarian healthcare. [[(Noise and lines. Announcements from the BSP for Bulgaria]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u37	Colleagues, please take your seats in the hall.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u38	Look at them, leaving the room when I ask that question.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u39	Put your card on, Mr. Petrov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u40	She stayed there.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u41	Report Mr. Petrov's time.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u42	It's a very short question. It refers to the building of the tubdispanser in Sliven, which has been closed since 2010, and this hospital is not working at all. It's seven acres of area. Mr. Ananiev, my question to you is: is there a decision on the case with the Specialized Hospital for Active Treatment of Lung Infections in Sliven? If there is no solution, how long before the Ministry of Health can present it to the governor? Currently the area of the hospital building is not maintained, the area has become a den of danger to public order and security individuals and is a source of disease. Thank you. Colleagues from BSP, there's hardly any of you anymore when we ask such sick questions. [[(Strong noise and lines from BSP for Bulgaria.) Revelations: How can there not be?(See Annex I, Section I.1, to Directive 2008/68/EC)]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u43	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Mr. Secretary, come in. Colleagues, please, let the movement in the hall stop. Take your seats or leave the room in due course.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u44	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Petrov, with a decision of the sole owner of the capital of specialized hospital for active treatment of pulmonary diseases, since 2010 the company has been terminated by liquidation. Three liquidators have been designated - Dr. Mitko Baev, released and replaced by Dr. Georgi Georgiev, Milena Manginova and Veselka Tsoneva, which is in accordance with the current Order of Art. 55, para. 3, currently repealed by the Law on Medical Institutions. By the deadline set for the closure of the liquidation, the debts of the liquidators have not been fulfilled. For the entire period from the opening of the procedure until liquidation, these liquidators have systematically failed to carry out what they were appointed for despite their repeated referral by the Ministry of Health. The order of Art. 55, para. 1 which was also already repealed by the Law on Medical Institutions, did not allow the period of liquidation to be extended, with the maximum duration being 18 months. Following the annulment of this provision, the abovementioned persons were exempted as liquidators and a new liquidator was appointed and the liquidation period was extended. The company's current liquidator found that the accounting and other documentation was left on the territory of the hospital complex and was looted. The company has no free cash and the liquidator has not received remuneration for what it has done for this reason. Unfortunately, Mr. Petrov, the problem in Sliven is not single in the Ministry. Analogical problems are identified with the properties in Kiten, Raduntsi, Varna and a number of other settlements. I note that the new management of the Ministry of Health conducts a comprehensive analysis of the property of the commercial companies and the state property provided for the management of the Ministry. On the basis of this analysis, decisions will be taken to dispose of the relevant property under legality and appropriateness. The most cost-effective solutions will be sought for the disposal of the properties of the Ministry and of the commercial companies. I've established a full organization, and we won't be long in this process. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u45	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Mr. Petrov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u46	Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I understand that you are the first to tackle the issues with the former tubdispansers, which in the 1950s and 1960s were up to date and were then maintained simply as a material base, but I would like to remind you once again that in the case of the Sliven Tudispanser, it is about a large terrain, an outbreak of disease, which is currently spreading in surrounding densely populated areas. My request is a priority, so to speak, that you may be able to resolve the matter with the Sliven tubispanser and that it be secured at least from not continuing to be a source of disease in the surrounding neighborhoods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u47	Thank you, Mr. Petrov. Will there be a hole, Minister? No. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Stanislav Vladimirov on measures regarding the serious situation of the emergency centres in the municipalities of Pernik region. Here you go, Mr. Vladimirov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u48	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! After closing the hospital in the town of Radomir, the Multiprofile Hospital in Pernik Rahila Angelova remains the only hospital on the territory of the district. In addition to the residents of the largest municipality, the hospital has to serve about 30,000 more people. On the territory of Pernik district there are four emergency centres in the municipalities of Radomir, Trun, Zemen and Breznik. The Centre in Radomir has outdated equipment that is extremely insufficient. There's a shortage of ambulances and specialists. With regard to the one in the municipality of Trun, the facts are as follows: there are only two ambulances for one city and for fifty villages throughout the municipality. However, they are served by one team and the real one is only one. The emergency room has doctors who are not mobile, and in an emergency they cannot take a patient to the district hospital, which is more than 50 km away, the material base is outdated. The emergency center in the town of Zemen does not have the necessary resources to diagnose patients if they are unable to diagnose them. One ambulance serves two municipalities -- Zemen and Kovachevtsi, and there is no team for the second. The emergency center has only one team, and if he's in the ambulance, the Emergency Center stays closed. Then there's only one nurse and one dispatcher taking the calls. The emergency centre in Breznik can only receive a few patients and a very limited number of manipulations are carried out in it. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what specific measures will you take to solve this extremely difficult problem in order to ensure adequate healthcare for residents of Pernik district?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u49	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. For an answer, the Minister of Health. Mr. Ananiev, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u50	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Vladimirov, as you also said, Pernik District of the Center for Emergency Medical Care has emergency medical facilities in the municipalities of Radomir, Zemen, Breznik and Trun. The emergency medical philosophy is a structure that performs continuous 24-hour activity. The number, location, type and capacity of the revealed affiliates shall be determined according to the National Health Card and the Rules on the structure and operation of the Emergency Medical Centers. For emergency medical care Pernik is structured with eight mobile medical teams, one transport and four stationary. The Centre shall have a structured and regional coordination headquarters which implements an operational manual on emergency medical care through unlimited, continuous uniform and facilitated telecommunications access to the emergency medical care system, telecommunication triage and communication with persons seeking the emergency medical care system, dispatch and control activities. The Emergency Medical Centre in Pernik is equipped with 15 ambulances that have been purchased during different periods up to this year. Along with ambulances is purchased and medical equipment for the cars themselves, as well as the medical equipment of the premises where stationary teams are accommodated, meeting all standard requirements for the time of purchase. The average workload of mobile teams in 2017 is between 1,5 and 4.5 work shift calls, with between 4 and 4.5 calls at the Centre in Pernik. The films in Radomir about 4 calls, the affiliates in Zemen, Breznik and Trun about 1.5 requests per shift. It is apparent from the workload presented in 2017 that the Centre for Emergency Medical Assistance Pernik, with its structure, is able to carry out its duties in order to provide urgent medical assistance to the population in the district. Mr. Vladimirov, taking into account that the building fund, the transport composition, the medical equipment in the centres and branches of emergency medical care in the country over time are seriously depreciated and defining the development of emergency medical care as a major priority in the work, the Ministry of Health provides for the implementation of a large investment project under the Operational Programme "Regions in Growth" 2014 " 2020," axis 4 "Regional Health Infrastructure" for the main purpose of renovation and modernisation of the building fund and equipment in the system of emergency assistance throughout the country with a total budget of sixty-three million and a half million. The activities will cover the emergency rooms of 34 medical facilities, 27 emergency services centers and the 204 branches and away emergency medical teams, including the Centre for Emergency Medical Services, and its affiliates, which we talked about a little while ago. The whole organization has been set up. The project is going well. It will be implemented and it will be necessary to make the overall reform of hospital care as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u51	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr. Vladimirov for a line, please.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u52	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, I didn't expect you to answer anything else. You answered me the way the employees at the Ministry gave it to you. More or less my information is the same because it was collected from my associates, again from your wards. Unfortunately, from all the signals I receive and from all my visits to the emergency centers in the municipalities of Pernik region, the picture is quite different. I'm talking about the real picture. You mentioned that on the basis of the load, very difficult emergency teams can carry out their duties to our society, you said about the load. I'll give you an example in Pernik, from employees at the Emergency Center. I can't say their names, they're worried, but there are days when they're between two and three ambulances. The staff of the emergency teams, nurses and doctors, have to be in one ambulance in the morning, in the afternoon, in another. Some ambulance repairs are being done all the time. There is doubt that these ambulances very often come in for repairs. You mentioned the workload in other municipalities. I told you: they're working on a team and an ambulance in the smaller municipalities in the area. And this is Pernik County. It's not some remote area where... We have been talking about Vidin for a long time that there is no healthcare, and this is an area that is 20 km from Sofia. You know this area very well, because that's where you're from. My request to you is: do an emergency check at the Emergency Center in the town of Pernik. It is delightful that there is a project, I hope all this renewal will happen, but I am sending this to you as a signal.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u53	Thank you, Mr. Vladimirov. Will there be a hole, Minister? Here you go. Here you go. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u54	Mr. Vladimirov, I'm going to do a background check at the Emergency Medical Center in Pernik. I just want to let you know: You must know the website of the Ministry of Health is already running the ambulance specification, and there are 400 of them related to the project we are carrying out. The building fund will also be renovated. I think things are gonna get better soon, but I'm gonna send a check to the Centre.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u55	Thank you, dear Minister. We move on to the third question to Minister Ananiev. He is from Anelia Klisarova and Ilian Timchev regarding problems in the two children's cardiology wards at the National Cardiac Hospital. Here you go, Mr. Timchev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u56	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! Information was provided in the media about problems related to staff and financial problems in the wards of children's cardiology and children's cardiosurgery of the National Cardiology Hospital. The following facts have been mentioned. In the past year, the hospital has accumulated debt of over half a million levs. Urgently, the necessary equipment must be bought - an echocardiographer without which they cannot work. It's an extremely big problem, and that's the main problem for me with staff. Only one of the wards needs more than 20 qualified nurses. Our question to you is: what measures does the Ministry of Health take to resolve this strategic problem for the state and for the Bulgarian citizens? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u57	Thank you, dear Mr. Timchev. The Minister of Health Mr. Ananiev has the floor to answer. Please come in for an answer within three minutes.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u58	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Professor Klisarova, dear Mr. Timchev! A multi-profile hospital for active treatment has been granted permission to carry out medical activities since 2013. Four clinics and nine wards have been revealed in its structure, with the Department of Pediatrics, Department of Children's Cardiology and Department of Intensive Treatment of Children. There is also activity in children's cardiosurgery in the medical establishment. According to the hospital as of 31 December 2017, the total amount of accumulated liabilities is 7 million. $700,000. BGN, with the same decrease by 383 thousand. lv. or 4.7% compared to the end of the previous year. In structural terms, the short-term obligations to suppliers of medicines and medical supplies prevail...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 174,000. BGN, and the personnel and insurance undertakings' obligations amount to 2 million. 165,000. lv. A permanent trend in the medical establishment is to reduce overdue debts and this is seen as of 31 December 2017. The Ministry of Health has supported the Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment by presenting targeted funds for capital expenditure, with a total value of 1 million for the period 2013-2017. $700,000. lv. This proves that the state invests in the development of these specific exclusive treatment units for children with heart problems. Until now, the Ministry of Health has not received a request from the medical institution to provide capital transfer for the purchase of an echocardiographer for the Department of Children's Cardiology. I make a commitment today to contact the director of the hospital to find out if there is such a problem as there has not been such a request at the Ministry of Health. We believe that the Clinic of Children's Cardiosurgery is unique to our country and the Ministry supports its development. However, the problems in the medical establishment are related to the way it is managed and to the redistribution of resources. There is an ineffective use of the available potential of human resource and bed fund between the individual clinics. Clinics of cardiosurgery and vascular surgery for adults at the Cardiological Hospital have a usable bed use rate of about 30? 40%. In children's cardiology the usability is over 63%, which shows that this unit is well-functioning and must be supported. The Ministry will propose a recovery plan for the medical facility, which we will discuss with its management. As regards the shortage of nurses, it should be noted that the medical establishment has the necessary potential as a university base to invest in the development of young healthcare professionals to be trained and to continue their professional path in the hospital. Conversations in this direction are conducted with the National Association of Health Care Professionals, who gave their support for participation in the selection of young specialists to be trained and have potential for development in the medical establishment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u59	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Professor Klisarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u60	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ananiev! I am satisfied with what I have heard because funds must be found for, as you said, an exceptional unit for Bulgarian healthcare. I would like to stress that there are over 10,000 patients going through cardiosurgery every year and there are 280 surgeries per year. One more thing to stress is that the value of such an operation of a child with malformations in Bulgaria is about 15 000. lv. If we have to do this abroad, it's 60 grand. lv. I am pleased that it is thought to invest and will have capital expenditure. Thank you for checking for the ultrasound. But much more serious is the problem with the footage, and not just for this cardiological hospital because of the human resources in healthcare we are starting to shut down hospitals. We start shutting down clinics that have a unique structure and are 55 years old. It's work, investment in education, structure. We can't let that happen! I'd like to pay particular attention to child health. Are the clinical pathways funded enough for children's diseases, and are we investing enough in our health care professionals? I mean health care. And will we consider together having one such additional specialization called the Children's Profile to the nurses? This is a unique work that requires additional education, and qualification. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u61	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. For the back, Mr. Secretary? You're not getting the back. The next question is from the MPs Valentina Naydenova, Svetla Bachvarova and Nikolay Penev on the adoption by the Council of Ministers of amendments to the Ordinance on requirements for bottled natural, mineral, spring and table water intended for drinking purposes. Here you go, Mr. Penev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u62	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Minister! A number of unresolved problems related to market regulation for bottled water have been posed to the European Commission by the Directorate-General for Food and Safety of 10 January 2018. The European Commission informs us that in order to complete the open criminal procedure against Bulgaria and to avoid the appropriate sanctions, it is necessary for the Council of Ministers, without delay, to adopt amendments to the Ordinance on the requirements for bottled natural, mineral, spring and table water intended for drinking purposes. All relevant European texts must comply with the rules of our national legislation governing the marketing of bottled waters. The Regulation has been in operation since 2015, with the amendments prepared at the beginning of this year being assessed by the European Commission with the relevant recommendations. In this regard, Dear Minister, we ask you: within what deadlines will you propose to the Council of Ministers to accept the amendments and additions to the Ordinance and what changes do you think should be reflected in it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u63	Thank you, dear Mr Penev. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u64	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Penev! The need to amend the Ordinance on requirements for bottled natural, mineral, spring and oil water was established in the course of the pilot inquiry procedure launched at the end of August 2014 by the European Commission........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... 8, § 2 of Directive 2009/54 EC on the exploitation and marketing of natural mineral water. In the course of the procedure, the Bulgarian side accepted the findings of the European Commission that there is some inaccuracies in the transposition of the Directive into national law with regard to the concept of a source and the implementation of the principle of a single source of a trade name.............................................................................................. In connection with the implementation of this measure by Order P-152 of 6 July 2015, the Prime Minister was established an Interdepartmental Working Group with representatives of the Council of Ministers, the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Environment and Water, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Commission for Consumer Protection and the Patent Office of the Republic of Bulgaria. The Working Group was tasked to develop and propose projects for amendment and supplement not only to the Ordinance on Bottled Waters, but also to all other regulations governing the sector of bottled natural, mineral, spring and table waters intended for drinking use, such as the Food Act, the Water Act, acts in the field of patent law, trade marks and geographical indications, consumer protection and others, which would provide sufficient legislative guarantees to comply with the principle of one source, one trade name. Meanwhile, another Interdepartmental Working Group has been established to develop proposals for a whole new Food Act, which also has a direct bearing on bottled water regulation, which is a type of food under European and national law. In this regard and following an analysis of all legislation regulating the sector of bottled natural, mineral, spring and table waters intended for drinking use, the working group decided that the amendments and additions to the above regulation should be carried out after the adoption and promulgation of the new Food Act. Currently, the National Assembly is considering a proposed draft of a new Food Law proposed by the Council of Ministers. The project lays down provisions relating to the regulation of public relations in the area of authorisation, production and marketing of bottled water. Following the adoption and promulgation of the new Food Act and the relevant texts with regard to bottled waters, it will be possible to amend regulations, including the Ordinance on requirements for bottled natural, mineral, spring and table waters. At the request of the European Commission, all laws and regulations and legal texts will be made available to the Commission services immediately after their adoption and publication in the Official Journal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u65	Thank you, dear Minister. Mr Penev, for a line. Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u66	Dear Minister, thank you for the answer from which it became clear that you will do everything possible for our country to fulfil exactly its commitment as soon as possible to European legislation so that we do not take any financial sanctions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u67	Thank you, dear Mr Penev. Let's move on to the next question. He is from the National Representative Anelia Klisarova on relations between medical universities and university hospitals. Here you are, Professor Klisarova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u68	Madam President, honourable Members! Dear Minister, I am continuing with this question. It relates to the previous question, namely the quality of education in medicine, dentistry, health care. Because if we want quality health care, this can't happen without footage in this area. No matter how much money we invest in equipment, there must be people who can work on these devices, to be able to give adequate help to Bulgarian citizens. In this regard, I would like to stress and ask the relations between medical universities and university hospitals are now placed in some very difficult conditions, namely the Rector, the university appoints people to train young candidates and young candidate students doctors. On the other hand, many of them also work in university hospitals, which are the basis for this practical training of students. I think we all agree that the separation of theoretical from the practical part is not for the benefit of absolutely no one, because there is no patient who would like to be examined by an excellent doctor in theory without having even one hour of practice. Since the second year the students in medicine, dentistry and pharmacy are in the bases they are in the university hospitals and in the university centers. In this regard, I can also emphasise that the universities themselves should also invest in the base of university hospitals, because young people should learn these latest technologies and newest devices. Therefore, my question to you is I can read it exactly, but about the link university hospital: what is your view about art. 62, para. 2 of the Law on Hospitals?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u69	Thank you, Professor Klisarova. Here you are, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u70	Dear Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House, dear Professor Klisarova! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of Art. 1. 62, para. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions The Council of Ministers, on a proposal from the Minister of Health, grants to the relevant higher education institution the rights of sole owner of capital in the management of state hospitals which are university hospitals for the period for their accreditation. Currently, hospitals designated as university hospitals are 37 of which 9 are private. At a meeting of the Minister of Education and Science and the Minister of Health with the Rectors of Higher Schools conducting medical training, the Rectors shared their views on the possibilities for implementation of the Order of art. 62, para. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions. Different opinions and views were expressed. Ready to acquire the rights of a sole owner of capital there are at Medical University Varna, regarding the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Marina "EAD." In this regard, I expect a written proposal from the Rector of the Medical University. The Ministry of Health reports that the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment "St. Marina is the medical institution with essential importance both for the health needs of patients from the northeast region of the country and for the educational process and for the scientific development of the Medical University. It is also important that the University Multiprofile Hospital for Active Treatment. Marina (Varna) has no financial obligations. We believe that if there is an explicit wish by the management of the Medical University and the University Hospital, action should be taken to realise the possibility provided for in art. 62, para. 2 of the Law on Medical Institutions. Upon readiness and request by other higher schools to benefit from this provision, proposals will be considered and appropriate action taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u71	Thank you, dear Minister. For a line, Professor Klisarova, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u72	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Ananiev, I am absolutely satisfied with the answer you give for your view of the relationship between university and university hospital. I would like to assure you that with a decision of the Academic Council this proposal will be made and let the Medical University Marina "Varna" is a pilot project. Let's try to establish, because we should not make any sudden movements, find out, will the quality of the learning process, in which I am personally convinced, improve the quality of the healing process in the hospital, as well as investments for the hospital itself and for the University, and at the same time will the development of the staff motivate them to stay and work at the University and the University Hospital? And last but not least, let the scientific work go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u73	Thank you, dear Professor Klisarova. Let us thank Minister Ananiev for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are continuing with questions to Neno Dimov, Minister of Environment and Water. Question from the MPs Ivelina Vassileva, Dimitar Boychev, Diana Savateva, Galya Vassileva, Asya Peeva and Ivan Stefanov Valkov regarding the state of the atmospheric air on the territory of Burgas municipality. Here you are, Mrs. Vassileva, to develop the issue.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u74	Thank you. Dear Madam President, dear Minister, honourable colleagues! The questions we ask relate to the state of the atmospheric air in the municipality of Burgas and express the concerns of all MPs from GERB, elected by the Burgas multi-mandate electoral region, as well as of Burgas. Since the beginning of the year, residents of Burgas have been alarming with numerous complaints and signals of intense smells of petroleum products, oil, sulphur, gas and boiled wood, which appear throughout the day in different residential areas and complexes of Burgas. Particularly strong were the smells, respectively the concerns and complaints of citizens about the state of the atmospheric air between 26 and 28 January 2018. Signals of a strong suffocating smell, first of all, express people's concerns about the influence of contaminated air on health. In addition, they express doubts about the insufficient effectiveness of the control carried out on the industrial enterprises "Lukoil Neftohim Burgas" JSC, "Cronoshpan Bulgaria" and other operators. According to information from the media in this period and the system "Zelen phone" did not function well enough. In the late hours the phone was turned off and practically no signals were received during most of the day. The specific unpleasant smell is a serious indication of possible contamination with organic substances. Signals and complaints by citizens point to a failure to comply with the condition laid down in the complex authorisation of operators to prevent the spread of odors beyond the boundaries of the production site. In this regard, we expect your answer to the following questions: What is the current state of the atmospheric air in the municipality of Burgas? What checks have been carried out by RIEW Burgas, since the beginning of the year in relation to the pollution signals from the companies - Lukoil Neftochim Burgas АД, Kronoshpan Bulgaria....................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Are there findings of contamination with organic pollutants and appropriate action taken and sanctions imposed? What measures and actions have been taken under the control to comply with Condition 9.4 of the complex authorisation of operators? Are there any problems with the functioning of the signal and complaint system?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u75	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vassileva. For an answer, the Minister for Environment and Water. Mr. Neno Dimov, come in.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u76	Thank you. Mrs. President, honourable Members of the National Assembly, Mrs. Vasileva and a group of MPs from GERB from Burgas multi-mandatory region! Three automatic measuring stations are located on the territory of Burgas. 24-hour measurements of the city's air quality in the neighborhoods are being carried out 24 hours a day "Medden Rudnik", "Dolno Ezerovo" and "Lazur" complex. The results of the emission studies in all three points for 2017 and up to now do not exceed the established ambient air quality standards, except for the fine particulate indicators. The use of solid fuel for household heating combined with adverse weather conditions may be indicated as the main reason. For all other pollutants, no excesses of the norm have been recorded. In the period 26 January, 6 February 2018 in RIEW Burgas 79 signals were received from citizens for unpleasant smells in the city. In order to identify the sources, checks have been carried out on the premises of Lukoil Neftohim Burgas., Kronoshpan Bulgaria.The area around Kronoshpan Bulgaria.The area around Kronoshpan Bulgaria and the district of Dolno Ezerovo. Unpleasant odors, including during the dark part of the day, have not been detected. However, investment measurements of ambient air quality were carried out in those areas on 28 January 2018. The values of all measured indicators are in the norm. During the inspections of Lukoil Neftohim Burgas AD it was found that activities were carried out on the main site of the company in the processing of oil sludge according to the program for the removal of past environmental damage. The operator did not provide any written evidence of increased control over the parameters of the installation, which is a violation of Condition 9.4 of the company's complex permit. Oil sludge processing activities as well as the presence of adverse weather conditions on 27 and 28 January 2018 are possible prerequisites for unpleasant smells. On 30 January 2018, by RIEW experts, a re-check was carried out and it was found that the sludge processing activities were discontinued. Failure to fulfil the same Condition 9.4. of the complex permit was found also in the verification of the company's production activities. For the findings of non-compliances with the conditions of the complex permit, acts will be drawn up by the Regional Inspection in Burgas of the two enterprises. In addition, I would like to inform you that there are no problems with the operation of Nevertheless, action has been taken by inspectors on the construction of an automatic telephone system which must be operational and operational by the end of this month. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u77	Thank you, dear Minister. Mrs. Vassileva, come in for a line.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u78	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, at the beginning of your term of office, you have identified the clean air as your undisputed priority. We support and encourage your efforts in this direction. Both we and all the citizens of Burgas expect from you clear and decisive measures to prevent pollution. Control must be uncompromising and effective and in establishing violations of environmental legislation must be acted with all the strictness of the law. I hope that you will continue to monitor the situation in Burgas and the measures that should be systemic and permanent will lead to improvement of the air condition. We expect the structures of the Ministry of Environment and Water, above all, to clearly and categorically identify the sources of emissions that caused the unpleasant odors; to carry out controls by the Industrial Installations Executive Agency in order to see whether there are disorganised emissions and over-pollutions of organic substances; to make provisions by the Regional Environmental and Water Inspection to operators requiring specific technical measures to be taken to stop emissions and to monitor the implementation of these prescriptions by the control body and the public properly informed. In the event of a breach of the operator's complex authorisation, action shall be taken to put an end to the infringements and sanctions imposed in case of default. If this does not result in results, the Law allows including the cessation of the activities of parts or whole installations. Last but not least, to engage the corporate social responsibility of operators and to require them to be maximum openness and transparency to the public for technology and production, emissions generated and all environmental protection measures and activities to be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u79	Thank you, dear Mrs. Vasileva. Will there be a hole, Minister? There won't be. We should thank Minister Neno Dimov for his participation in today's parliamentary control. We are moving on to questions to Minister Valentin Radev, Minister of the Interior. The first question is from the National Representative Simeon Simeonov on the provision of targeted funds from the Republican budget for urgent and unforeseen costs for preventing, controlling and overcoming the consequences of disasters. Here you go, Mr. Simeonov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u80	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister Radev, as a result of the heavy rains in May and June 2014, in the village of Stambolovo, Pavlikeni municipality, several residential districts located on the 14th Street were flooded. The street is flooded due to lack of debilitation and sewerage. They suffered part of the courtyards and basements of the inhabitants around it, the pavement is torn down and because of the water gathered the street is impenetrable. Protocols from the municipality of Pavlikeni are drawn up for the emergency situation. The minutes are from 2014 and 2017. Due to the adverse financial situation of Pavlikeni municipality, it is not possible to secure financial reconstruction work on the site. The situation in the village of Stambolovo is repeated and people live in a constant nightmare since 2014 and until now February 2018. In this regard, my question to you is this, Mr. Minister: what can be done to solve this case in your subordinate Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance for the financial solution of the problems described above to the people of the village of Stambolovo, Pavlikeni municipality?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u81	Thank you, Mr. General. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u82	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Simeonov, in 2017 the Interdepartmental Commission for Reconstruction and Assistance to the Council of Ministers adopted a decision proposing to the site "Prevent the floods in the municipality of Pavlikeni by renovating and rehabilitating the streets in the village of Stambolovo. BGN 582. in the budget for 2018. This is consecutive No 168 of Annex 1, points 2, 3 and 4 to Protocol No 3 of 10 October 2017. The decision is subject to approval by an act of the Council of Ministers pursuant to art. 43, para. 3 of the Public Finance Act. All proposals of the Commission not approved in 2017 and this is precisely because of the exhaustion of the financial resources will be proposed for discussion and possible approval by the Council of Ministers in the first draft legislative act approving additional expenditures from the contingency or emergency reserve of the state budget for preventing, controlling and overcoming the effects of disasters for 2018. For your information, let me add more, because this clearly interests you, that these fellow citizens of ours are suffering, you say, as early as 2014. There are several protocols, you are right, you are right in 2017, and now we are putting it off for 2018. Thirty-nine I counted them precisely, are the projects, so they say, which have been transferred since 2017. The Commission therefore concludes that the measures provided for in this Decision are in accordance with the opinion of the Committee established by Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, So let me not tell you something optimistic, but I will draw the attention of colleagues from the Secretariat to pay attention to this project, because the limitation period is still from 2014 and compare it well with those 39 transferred and new ones that are happening this year. This I can tell you in response and through you, of course, and your question to the citizens of the village of Stambolovo to hear it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u83	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Mr. Simeonov, the line?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u84	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister Radev, thank you for the correct answer. I just want to add that I understand very well when there are situations and disasters in the country, that the main efforts are directed exactly where the major disasters are, as was Biser five years ago and what was last year in the Burgas area. However, these, let me call them objects, which were mentioned earlier, as the case in the village of Stambolovo, Pavlikeni municipality, the problem has proved very great and the patience of the people has already been exhausted. On February 10th, I had a meeting with the people. Turns out the problem is even bigger than a few years ago, and it's oversized. Including complaining that they couldn't even take their children to kindergartens, schools, because the street is constantly flooded and the situation is difficult. The mayor is also present at this meeting, which is from another political force. What I want to announce, and my people have told me, is that the situation is extremely intolerable and we will now proceed to certain actions for civil disobedience and resistance, literally speaking within, of course, what is permitted by law. But the goal is to help these people. I ask you, Mr. Minister, I know that you are an active person and we have worked with you in the Ministry of Defence, but what is possible is done to improve the situation of the people and to allow this object in 2018 to be resolved, to do everything possible and what needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u85	Thank you, Mr. Simeonov. Would you like to use the back? No. The next question is to Minister Radev of the National Representative Dora Yankova. It is about the functioning of the National Announcement System in case of disasters and accidents. Here you are, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u86	Dear Mr. Chairman, Dear Minister Radev! My question is about the frequent disasters and accidents, logically follows perhaps the previous question, which announces the mayors of municipalities and district governors. For various reasons and especially in my electoral area, which is mountain, recently related to the strong hurricane wind, with the big snows, questions arise: is there a National Disclosure System to establish an inter-institutional connection between the government and the state, and, naturally, the management bodies, and municipalities represent citizens, i.e. a link with the Bulgarian citizens? Why am I asking the question, Minister? I tried very hard to get to know the documents you work with as a minister. In the Rules of Procedure of the Ministry of Interior in art. 2 is written above all the work of the ministry itself, and in para. 5 is given the status of European number 112. In Article 4 (1) (b), point (c) is replaced by the following: 70 The possibility of early warning and disclosure of disasters and air hazard to the authorities of the executive and in para. 3 it is written that it is the bodies of which you are head of civil protection that have concluded contracts with legal persons, sole, commercial operators, radio, television programmes, undertakings and other public electronic and communications networks that inform citizens. So far, so good. In parallel to this I saw carefully the Annual Plan for the Implementation of the National Programme for Protection of Disasters and Accidents, the framework is 2014 "2018." And did you know that in the functioning of the state it happens: early disclosure is good, and after the privatisation of BTC and mobile operators, when the electric current is stopped it is found that people have no connection neither with the mayor nor with the institutions and they remain in the disaster alone? Here's the question: what is the Ministry and the State doing, and you are currently in your company to have a National Disclosure System?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u87	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u88	Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mrs. Yankova, I didn't take your question, but you have now slightly shrunk it in a field where I can hardly answer you correctly. If that's how you wrote it, I'd be in charge of the cameramen. But let's see as the question is asked, what answer will you get from me and whether you will be satisfied. The National Early Warning and Disclosure System is made up of two subsystems: Early Warning and Disclosure System for Executive Authority Bodies and Components of the Single Rescue System. On the question you ask: what do institutions and the state do and how do they communicate? The second part is: An early warning and public disclosure system for the population of the siren system. This National Early Warning and Disclosure System provides a sustainable link, first of all, to exchange information and coordinate the actions of the executive authorities and the constituent parts of the Single Rescue System in the event of an imminent or emerging disaster, or an air hazard. Secondly, the public's warning and information about an imminent or emerging disaster and so on. The system for the early warning and disclosure of the executive authorities and other parts of this Single Rescue System is built entirely and composed of National Control Unit and 28 district control units and serves all levels of management. It is designed, for individual purposes, to publish a wide range of officials from the state and executive authorities, district and municipal administrations.. parts of this Single Rescue System, that is what it is called. There is the possibility of entering data for 28 thousand officials to be disclosed in an emergency situation. Information on the occurrence of changes shall be updated in due time, new officials shall be included, if necessary, and volunteers and voluntary formations shall also be made public through the System. They're already over 211 and over 3,000 volunteers, and we've included them. The announcement shall be made by automated transmission of voice messages by telephone, requiring confirmation from a personal identification code.. PIN code to make it clear that this is the subscriber across the street. The system shall ensure the rapid mobilisation and adequate response of all competent officials and improve the coordination of the executive bodies. The system's functional capabilities are: alarming groups with pre-recorded voice messages, the messages are recorded in advance; secondly, announcements through messages recorded by a system operator at the moment; holding emergency and unplanned telephone conferences. The Regulation of Decree No 48 of March 2012 establishes the conditions and procedures for the functioning of the National Early Warning and Disclosure System for the Bodies of the Executive and the Population of Disasters for Air Threat Disclosure. In the implementation of this regulation, such training is carried out twice a year and according to Decree No 48, which I mentioned, twice a year for the use of the order of disclosure according to one NPP plan. On an established and coordinated schedule with the district governor, trainings are carried out each month on areas for the disclosure of different groups of officials and, finally, in the event of danger and in the event of disaster, the system is used to convene headquarters at national and regional level, for the disclosure of the constituent parts of this system. We only did it three times last year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u89	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mrs. Yankova.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u90	Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister! With regard to early disclosure and what is in the functional characteristics of the Ministry, yes, it is. But it goes to the district mayor. With regard to the entire territory of the country in the event of a disaster, links have already been broken. I don't ask that question for a reason. During the last hurricane wind disaster in the Rhodopes, I tried to get in touch with the residents of Banite municipality. The majority of the small towns of Davidkovo, Zagrajden, Bosilkovo, the other villages, falling five pillars and the current stopped, and when they are not in contact with mobile operators because their batteries are exhausted, it turns out that the inhabitants have no connection with anyone. So I would like to ask you, as Minister, to see this problem. I call the representatives of the transmission system of the electricity companies and ask: "On the Arda River, when will the electricity be available?" They say, "There is no connection with any of Arda's rivers, including those working to say what is happening." In this situation, the question arises: what does the population do in a fire, sick, another disaster? It cannot return information to the institutions. There's no megaphones, no broken connections, no other publicity system to the district center, and we're counting on what? We have to get the drum drummers back to go public. This is due to the interruption of BTC connections with new mobile operators, which has enabled people to be isolated in certain situations of disasters and accidents. That's why I insist you look at this problem, analyze it and give it a solution. It is important for Bulgarian citizens, it is important for the Bulgarian state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Yankova. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u92	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mrs. Yankova, you're right, you're speaking literally firsthand. You suffered from it, you saw it. That's how I understand the questions. I give you a formal answer as to what the system is so that everyone who has a connection to the answer to such a question can hear. I want to say three things. First of all, it's not just our job. I want to draw a line between the duties of the Ministry of Interior, you have read art. 70, I know it too, and what do the district governors do? They have to maintain something. Do they do it well? The decree states: "The Ministry of Interior, if necessary and it becomes some kind of disaster, we have a separate relationship. You must know that there are several systems in Bulgaria. The whole country is covered and not even one of them is talking to the other. The TETRA systems, for example, of the Ministry of Defense did not speak until recently to the TETRA systems of the Ministry of Interior, now I do not know how far the process has come. If we come and the disaster is such that you don't even need your intervention, but the state forces are coming, we will also contact for this level I suppose you don't mind. You're asking about the other one before that. That's where I agree. Thank you, I'll look into it, including those contracts that you mentioned, if there's any hole in it after you've tested it, then there is. That's my answer, and I'm trying very well to answer, because that's how I understand the question. I'll make a personal effort to see if there's anything there. That wasn't exactly the way it was written in the question, so I didn't go into that kind of detail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u93	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Radev is from the MP Hristo Grudev on the opening of the Ministry of Interior reception in the town of Asenovgrad. You're welcome to ask the question, Mr. Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u94	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, my question is about the open reception of the Ministry of Interior in the town of Asenovgrad, the district of Loznitsa. Dear Minister, on 24 August 2017 a reception hall of the Ministry of Interior was opened in Asenovgrad, the district of Loznitsa, as part of the measures taken after the protests of the citizens of Asenovgrad after the conflict that arose between a group of Roma and children contestants in the canoe in the region of the reservoir. Three inspectors and two posters were appointed. The support of the team in the exported reception room is about 15,000. lv. a month. In this regard, my question to you is: what is the effect of the admissions in the district of Loznitsa in the past six months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u95	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u96	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Grudev, we found the reception room on August 24, 2017. I was there, too, in Loznitsa, in Asenovgrad. You're right about the people who were assigned there, the three inspectors, not to repeat them myself. In addition to receiving citizens in the room itself, I will mention the activities of the employees in order to get to what you ask me, they hold periodic meetings with the residents of the neighborhood during the daily tours and carry out other activities related to their social duties in the service area, among which activities are: ensuring public order and preventing crime, control for non-compliance with the Law of Civil Registration and Bulgarian Personal Documents, Ordinance of the Municipality of Asenovgrad, of course, and the rules for traffic safety. Preventive discussions shall also be held with persons organizing mass events, weddings, baptisms and other such with a view to preventing violations of public order, committing crimes and complying with the Regulation on the protection and maintenance of public order. Next, assist the representatives of state institutions in terms of living conditions; minors in the neighborhood; as well as their presence in the educational institutions under the Ministry of Education; investigation of the systems for protection in the primary school - Vaptsarov, which is close by, and the adjoining kindergarten; lastly, participation in specialized police operations in the territory of the Regional Government - Asenovgrad, related to prevention of crime and protection of public order. There has been no ethnic tensions or gross public policy violations since the analysis of the operational situation in the district of Loznitsa. Most signals are of a domestic and social nature. 96 persons were admitted to the reception room and 32 complaints and alerts were received from citizens of the district of Loznitsa. 18 persons have been encircled and talked with 46 persons. Officials of the patrol post activity of the Management shall periodically use the reception room to impose administrative sanctions on offenders as a convenient place on the ground. The construction of the reception hall in Loznitsa is a positive effect by enabling residents in the neighborhood to submit signals and requests on a daily basis, for which they had previously had to visit the building of the district management in Asenovgrad. The presence of police officers daily in the reception hall and in the area creates a sense of peace among the local population, and if tensions arise between Roma families or outsiders who come there, police officers immediately intervene, cooperate according to their powers. Direct contact with local residents is being made and trust is being built between them and police officers. Because you were there, to tell you now, but then I told the citizens, my dream is not to have such a thing there. It had to, but hopefully it'll be temporary. These are the results. For now, we note that colleagues are dealing with the situation, tensions are long gone and has reached the normal limit. Hopefully, together with you, I hope that is the question, this will continue. Whatever depends on our colleagues there will continue to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u97	Thank you, dear Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Grudev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u98	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, I have visited the open office of the Ministry of Interior four times in the district of Loznitsa. Just for my colleagues to clarify that the district of Loznitsa in the municipality of Asenovgrad, in the town of Asenovgrad, is a compact Roma population of several thousand people and there was a conflict last year on June 26th between the canoe-kayak racers and a group of Roma. The subsequent actions, after the opening of the exported reception hall, Minister, the local population is pleased with it. They have confidence in the team that works in the open reception room, they're looking for them. After all, the neighborhood is located quite far away as a distance from the police district in Asenovgrad. In the event of various conflicts, mainly of a domestic nature, the close location of the open reception room enables them to immediately seek assistance and support among the employees of the Ministry of Interior who work in it. That's how there's a lot of domestic scandals at first. As I said, I've visited four times, I know a lot of people from the Roma population. I'm local, I grew up there. People are happy with the open reception. Even if I can afford a piece of advice to you, as Minister of the Interior, a good approach to the state's presence in Roma neighborhoods and communities are the admissions to police stations. Thank you, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u99	Thank you, Mr. Grudev. A hole, Mr. Secretary? We move on to the next question to Minister Radev. He is from the MP Stefan Burgeev on the efficiency of operation of the equipped with cameras and microphones patrol cars. Please state the question, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u100	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Minister, my question to you is this. In 2015, the Ministry of Interior announced that they would have 120 patrol cars equipped with three cameras and two wireless microphones. My question to you is: to what extent has this project worked, and in what digital indicators is the overall efficiency expressed as increased performance compared to previous periods? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u101	Thank you, dear Mr. Burgeev. Come in for an answer, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u102	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Burgeev! In the implementation of the Action Plan, for preventing and countering bad practices of the Ministry of Interior in 2015, as you said, 120 road police patrol cars are equipped with automated video surveillance information system. In 2017, another 300 cars are equipped with the same system for your information, of which 274 are the newly purchased vehicles that you see on the Kia Ceed roads, and 26 of the available cars. The equipment of the cars with such a system is financed by the The introduction of video surveillance of police cars is aimed at reducing the level of illegal acts or corruption, as they are called, I do not use this word as strongly in this case, among road police officers, along with this to protect them in the performance of their duties. The cameras are like this. They shoot unless they break the rules, they shoot and if someone in relation to them breaks the rules. In 2016 in the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria the employees of the Ministry found 888 208 violations of the Road Traffic Act. This is for 2016. 888 208. In 2017, the detected violations by these gentlemen, by our employees who used these cars, the established violations of the Road Traffic Act were 1 million 37 thousand 516, for which the relevant documents were drawn up and no violations were found, incorrect actions by these cameras for our employees. Just one thing, as I recall, about the backfire of someone against them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u103	Thank you, dear Minister. A line? You have the floor, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u104	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, Mr. Minister! According to public information, the previous equipment of a patrol car with three cameras and two microphones is the left equivalent of about BGN 5000. As you have just answered, 300 new cars and 26 of the vehicles available are equipped. There is a trend in increasing the registered by equipped car violations along the way. With regard to these facts and data that you have answered, I would like to ask you: is a strategy planned, since this change and the planned results have been achieved to some level, is it planned in the long term to increase or maintain the tendency to equip cars with these systems? What are the costs of them? Are they increasing or decreasing? The public attitudes, the disputes on their part by all the interested parties, both law enforcement and public officials, what are their opinions? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u105	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. You have the floor for the doppelganger, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u106	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Burgeev, I take the floor to answer with a few sentences further, because the question is significant. I will answer this question myself: Is this the only information that the Member of the Parliament asks something? You've seen the reference, I think the violations are about 100,000 more, that's just part of it. They tell me, "Well, we don't have statistics, we haven't collected statistics on what was heard, what was said, what was filmed, how it was improved. I mean, the means you ask me about, do we at least get cameras in so many cars? We don't have that statistic. What's the answer? [[Reply from the National Representative Stefan Burgeev.]] Yes, we are doing something that others have done in other countries. Take a look at the movies, if you will, and the Americans there are so equipped policemen. This is good practice, there is no need for further action and further analysis. I guess that's the right answer for something that's established practice. It's a good thing there's such a thing. It is well received by citizens. It's well received by the police. The question is very thin... are the funds by which we purchase, if we value them, correspond to this? How, though, can we measure corruption in money, if there is one, or the abuse of employees? That's what I think is... [[Heckling]] Yeah, if they're enough, I don't know, but these cameras and microphones protect both sides, both sides. So I understand your question. I'll take a closer look at it, but I guess since everyone's doing it and the cops themselves say, "Yes, it's good to be protected and do the right things..." [[Heckling]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u107	I apologize. Entry into dialogue is not recommended in this way.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u108	The cost increases with the cost of these devices... it is about microphones and cameras. Excuse me, the price of cars and the price of what we are saving citizens to be sure during the inspection, and the police to be sure that there will be no harm to them, I think it is worth it, but it has not been valued so far.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u109	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Radev is again from the MP Stefan Burgeev and is about the unoccupied numbers from the State of the Ministry of Interior. Please ask the question, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u110	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, since my next question is related to the previous one, I would like to say that it is imperative to have an assessment and some objective analysis of whether the two most interested parties are satisfied with this method of work, and do they feel that their rights are protected? I'll get to the point. Dear Minister, are there any unaccounted for in the State of the Ministry of Interior? What are the reasons why the composition of the various departments of the Ministry is not completed and how are they distributed under the main and regional directorates of the Ministry of Interior? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u111	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. You have the floor to answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u112	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Burgeev! The vacant positions on the main states of the Ministry of Interior's structures as of 31 January 2018 are 4766 stats. 4766! The reason the state is not filled is the way the Ministry's budget is formed, like other ministries, according to the "Personal" indicator, which serves as a basis for the employment of the previous year. If we are 50 thousand, I round the number, and last year there are 45 thousand, the money in the budget for 2018 is for 45 thousand. I'm just trying to figure out what that means. Thus, most of the vacant positions on structures remain financially uncertain. In 2017, the Ministry of Interior has a tendency to increase the employment of civil servants under the Ministry of Interior Act. You've heard me talk a lot about hiring people. There was an order not to appoint an administration to appoint those who are on the ground, as colleagues are expressed, and employees under the Civil Service Act, and persons working in employment services under the Labour Code. According to the main state in the main directorates, as you ask, and the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior are: the main directorates of the Ministry of Interior on 25 January 2017 are 16 747 people, and on 21 December 2017, that is, for almost the whole year, there have become 17 275, from which it is apparent that the number has increased by 528; in the regional departments of the Ministry of Interior at the beginning of the year "2017," again on 25 January, the employment is 22 524, and on 21 December 2017, again for the whole year, is almost 22 606, from which it is shown that it has increased by 82, while there are 400 more training at the Academy of the Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of Interior monitors monthly, analyses the dynamics of employment and measures are taken to secure the structures with human resources, according to the established budget of the Ministry, as I mentioned at the beginning, according to the indicator of the staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u113	Thank you for your answer, Minister. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Burgeev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u114	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! Your response revealed that the unoccupied state in the Ministry of Interior system was 10%. If at the beginning of your reply you set a logical thesis that budgets are made from year to year, together with this is formed the state of the Ministry of Interior, for me there is a big conclusion for which you may not be guilty, but there is an unskilled long-standing policy for which the government of GERB has been responsible. With little exception, in the last nine years in the Ministry of Interior sector manages GERB and this is not a problem that has arisen since the last one year or the last two. I believe that this is a failure and quite natural are the tensions in the system and the constant discontent and protests of law enforcement officers. The state, which is increasing to a minimum by the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior, is very bothering me because of the following: we are currently hosting the European Presidency and this will require the secondment of police officers from other districts to the capital to meet and secure the security of European high-ranking delegations and their members. Regularly, employees are assigned to the border as well. As the summer tourist season approaches, new distributions will also likely be made to the Black Sea coast. As a member of the Pleven region, there is no way, to stress again, not to be worried, because the available police officers are already overloaded with work. We have enough hot spots of conflict and social tension. I will list a few of them: these are small settlements where there are huge unemployment and a high share of domestic crime. Such are for example: Bear, Pelishat, Bukovlak, Turnene, Disevitsa and others, who in recent years are constantly in the events of the central news The last sad example of our region, with which we appeared in the media, was a gang that made 80 robberies in Dolna Mitropolia municipality. Media reports were also reported by Upper Metropolitan. These are all cause for concern both in our region and in others similar to ours, which are economically negative trend and, respectively, crime is growing.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u115	Thank you, Mr. Burgeev. I'm gonna have to ask you, you're running out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u116	I'm waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u117	Dear Minister, you have the floor for the coat.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u118	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Burgeev, you have expanded the issue and are giving political assessments. I'm not gonna let myself do that, of course. I'm a representative of the executive and you ask me. I'm in charge. That's what I'm doing right now. Let me just tell you and remind you that in our political programme of the Party GERB, which, as you say, governs for a long time, I am sure that it will govern for so long or at least hope. [[Reply.]] Yes, it is written in the government program that we need to hire at least 1,000 people by New Year's Eve. We didn't assign a thousand, the exact number is 342. Today I checked it out. So we continue to appoint people, and only those with police functions, and gendarmes. You've heard the number for the principals there are such people, the same goes to the district directorates, and wherever necessary. That's what we did. The problems of crime that you have affected so widely and almost made the remark only to me, I just want to say: yes, the Ministry of Interior may be most responsible. It has such powers, of course, to control who has broken the law to pursue it. I would like to draw attention to the fact that you, too, as MPs, I mean not only in the Pleven region, not only the MPs of our society, but GERB has not managed in the last 20 years. We're all responsible for this condition. We are only controlling and doing the impossible with these powers and the means that you MPs have in mind, the funds that you are voting on, to deal with them in the best way possible. And the grades are yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u119	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Mr. Radev is from the National Representative Nikolay Ivanov on the provision and spending of funds from the budget of the Ministry of Interior in relation to Sofia's security during the European Presidency.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u120	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members, Dear Mr. Minister! It is an undeniable fact that during the first six months of this year one of the most important tasks of the Ministry of Interior is ensuring the security of citizens, guests, of course, the official and participants in the events held on the occasion of the Bulgarian European Presidency. We are all aware of the problems we have heard in the answer to a previous question by a fellow Member of the National Assembly, caused by insufficient funding to secure the State of the Ministry of Interior, and the naturally insufficient motivation of the employees caused by these problems. It is therefore important that you answer the question I have asked: what part of the number of employees needed to secure Sofia's security during the European Presidency are the employees of the Sofia Directorate of Interior? What financial resource is needed to cover the additional number of employees needed to fill the composition? Are the costs at stake in the general budget of the Ministry of Interior and, if not, in what order are they secured? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u121	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. Mr. Minister, come in for an answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u122	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House, Mr. Ivanov! In order to ensure the safety and security of public order in the conduct of events related to the events of the calendar of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union in 2018, the Ministry of Interior shall provide employees of the Sofia Directorate of Interior from the Directorate of Zhendarmeria, Directorate of National Police, within their working hours. The establishment of the necessary organization with forces and funds is similar to that of all other mass events on the territory of the city of Sofia. In the event of events in the category "A" and category "C" for the security of the Congress Centre NDK and visited sites in connection with specific events, hotels and so on, the guards are provided with police authorities from the single establishment, providing additional powers from the SDVR and from the Gendarmerie, outside their established working hours. Out-of-work positions shall be reported in accordance with Regulation No 8121h of 2016 for: order, organisation and distribution of working hours, its reporting, compensation of working hours and off-duty, duty regime, rest time, holidays and so on. This regulation belongs to the Ministry of Interior. In carrying out the accompanying mass events, protests, sports, cultural and others, in parallel with the events of the Calendar of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union for 2018, of these two categories In view of the above, I inform you that with the established Law on the State Budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018 in the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2018 the main activities and functions of the Ministry should be ensured, including the security of Sofia during the European Presidency. In parallel to this is the practice, with Decree No 15 of the Council of Ministers of 1 February 2018 approving additional costs and transfers for 2018, securing the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union for 2018, additional expenditure of 2 million has been approved under the budget of the Ministry of Interior for 2018. $120,000. BGN 896, including the indicator "Personal"; 522,000 lv. for additional costs to the Directorate-General for Public Order Protection, organisation and hosting of regular meetings of the Chief Directors of the.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. The accounting of the expenditure on the budget of the Ministry of Interior, including securing the events in the implementation of the Bulgarian Presidency of the Council of the European Union for 2018, is carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Public Finance Act, the State Budget Act, of course, and Decree No 322 of December 2017 on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Bulgaria for 2018, as well as the additional Decree No 15, which I mentioned, as of 1 February 2018 on the approval of additional costs or
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u123	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Ivanov.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u124	Dear Mr. Chairman, honourable Members! Dear Minister, thank you for your answer. It makes it clear, first of all, that there is not enough clear planning for what costs will be needed. We hear that additional costs will also be needed to secure the security actions of the event by the Calendar of the Bulgarian European Presidency. The important issue arises with regard to the posting of officials from the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior: to what extent is patrol and posting activities provided and public order security outside the capital? As a member of parliament from the poorest region in the country and in the European Union, the resonant concern arises: this stripping of employees engaged in the capital during the European Presidency, will it not lead to an increased risk of increasing crime especially in small towns? I'm going to give you an example from this week - criminals get so bold that they attack lonely living elderly people not at night, but come into their home in broad daylight, sit down at the table, eat from their meals, then when they get home, and beat up and rob. So in addition to poverty and lack of work, the other great scourge is crime and lack of enough police presence in settlements, especially in small towns. Therefore, I say again, it is normal to worry during this undoubtedly important state and government security task during the European Presidency, but will this not lead to an increase in the risk of crime in the areas from which employees are seconded to the country? Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u125	Thank you, Mr. Ivanov. You have the floor for the doppelganger, dear Minister.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u126	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleague Ivanov, I do not know why you have decided that it is not clear that the planning of these funds is not clear and that there are additional ones. I am trying to assure you that what is planned in the budget, in the state budget, cannot be planned entirely and accurately. Bulgaria, I suppose, is no surprise to anyone, is for the first time President of the Council of the European Union and is not able to know all nuances, and certainly there is one additional need, if necessary in this case an additional payment is required, as you can see. [[Heckling]] In your second question, what is it about?! When we take people, yes, I said, when they are not enough, we take additional powers from the SVR, first. The Gendarmerie is then additionally a member of the Directorate General of the National Police. If this is not enough, then we will reach out and take from places where, you have heard from me and this is known, there is an interactive map of the whole of Bulgaria I'll give you examples: we'll take from Smolyan, from Kardzhali, from memory I'm not from the professional leadership, but I guess where crime has lower limits. Otherwise, I agree with you absolutely trying somewhere to do things that you mentioned. But that's the only way I'm gonna lock up: this crime that you're referring to now, it's not growing, it's falling, and it's not us, when we ruled, it was the biggest. I'm not gonna say numbers backwards, I've already had a reason to say what they are. For example, one of the things about killings that can't be manipulated by any minister, including one like me, who is the last, let's say, is the truth, and you can see what the killings were back in time. I'm not going there so there won't be a political conversation. What are they now? I guess it's the same with other crimes. There's no way they're not connected. So we are making it possible, not just us, the society is doing it because it is not only a function of the Ministry of Interior to push down this crime, but I agree with you in one way that the professional leadership, to which I am constantly paying attention, should be very careful when taking forces from the Regional Directorates of the Ministry of Interior and redirecting them when necessary to Sofia. I completely agree with you here.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u127	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The next question to Minister Radev is from the MP Tsvetan Topchiev and is about the organization of the work of the border crossing. You have the floor, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u128	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the House! The security of the border is part of a common concept of global security in the region and Europe and is a long-term strategic goal of the Republic of Bulgaria. It is necessary to upgrade the integrated border management model in response to border security challenges. The organisation of the work of the crossing point must ensure that flows of persons and vehicles, as well as cargoes across borders, are smoothly passed without reducing the level of security within the European Union. Dear Minister, my question to you is: what is the organisation of the work of the border crossing? Does it meet the standards for the verification and control of persons passing through and cargo complying with the country's requirements................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Do you foresee optimization by approving the material and technical base and optimization of operation in the performance of the functional duties of the single-line control services?
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u129	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Dear Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u130	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Dear Mr. Topchiev, the Ministry of Interior has such a Directorate of the Directorate of the Directorate of the Border Police, as a national specialized structure for carrying out the activities assigned by the Ministry of Interior Act. This Directorate shall carry out border checks at border crossing points at border crossing persons, property, their possession and means of transport of those nationals in accordance with Regulation No 399 of the European Union of 2016, the European Parliament and of the Council on the Union Code on the mode of movement of persons across borders. It is called the Schengen Borders Code, it is popular. When carrying out border checks, good practices recommended in the Common Practical Manual of Border Officers, known to experts as the Schengen Manual, which is used by the competent authorities of the Member States to carry out border checks on persons and vehicles are applied. As of 7 April 2017, an amendment to the Schengen Borders Code has entered into force, the provisions of which essentially oblige the authorities of the border police to enter and exit the border crossings located at the external borders of the European Union, such as our border, to carry out systematic checks on all categories of passengers, including nationals benefiting from the right of free movement under European Union law, their travel documents by checking into a database. That's what we do. An exception is provided for the future internal borders, such as the borders of the Republic of Bulgaria with the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Romania, where only persons benefiting from the right of free movement under Union law may carry out non-systemic checks when exiting the country. That's an exception. In the case of high intensity of the airport, which significantly increases the waiting time of the passengers at the border crossings, according to art. 9 of this European regulation for a certain period of time provides for a relief regime for border checks, the so-called "non-systemics" of entry and exit. In carrying out their official duties related to border checks at the country's border crossings, the border crossing officers are working with the most modern technical means, what you are asking about the control of the persons, the documents and vehicles, which are in full compliance with the recommendations and good practices of the Schengen catalogue of the European Union referred to above. The control for concealed persons in vehicles is carried out with an effective use of technical means - gas analysers, videondoscopes, inspection mirrors, mobile X-ray systems, including heart rhythm detection systems and video surveillance systems. Transmitting persons belonging to their possession and road vehicles shall be controlled for the transport of radioactive materials using stationary and mobile radiation detection equipment in 24 hours, seven days a week, and for the transport of explosives. The coordination and interaction between the individual border control services in terms of improving the infrastructure and the border crossing at the country's border crossing points shall take place within the Interdepartmental Border Control Board. The Working Group shall meet each month on the basis of the bilateral and multilateral agreements of the Ministry of Interior and the Directorate-General of Border Police. It shall carry out interaction activities with competent departments of different types of border controls: customs, health, veterinary, phytosanitary and controls for means of transport and others which are described to me here. This is Interdepartment. So you can be calm, there control is good with the funds I've listed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u131	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. You have the floor for a line, Mr. Topchiev.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u132	Thank you for your answer, Dear Minister. One thing hasn't been clear. There are 36 crossings operating in Bulgaria, of which 20 are on external borders and 16 on internal borders. Now I will show you some pictures of a border crossing in Bulgaria. [[The National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev shows pictures.]] It is clear from your reply that there is no means to improve the material base. The control services, as you said, are the Border Police, the Customs Agency, the Ministry of Health and the Bulgarian Food Safety Agency. You are responsible for the work of the coordinating body.. The Interdepartmental Council, on border control issues. The decisions of the Interdepartmental Council shall be binding on the specialized services of ministries and departments carrying out border control. This Council prepares financial estimates for the necessary funds for the construction of the new crossings there are such set out in international agreements, the extent to which they will be implemented, I do not know, but also for the expansion, reconstruction and modernisation of the existing ones. I'm showing you again. [[People's representative Tsvetan Topchiev again shows the photo]] That means it doesn't work. This Interdepartmental Council you're in charge of isn't working. This is how we welcome foreigners, under such conditions the border guards work. The border police and the staff of the Customs Agency of the Roads for cars, buses, on the largest land crossings apply the principle of a single line. When will there be a single national standard for all crossings in Bulgaria for the purpose of fast passenger and cargo service, which means when will there be personnel security and when will all the necessary specialized technical means be completed? [[The National Representative Tsvetan Topchiev provides the photo.]]
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u133	Thank you, Mr. Topchiev. Dear Minister, will you use the right of the coat? Here you go.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u134	Mr. Chairman! Dear Mr. Topchiev, I said it to a previous question. I will say it to you too. It must be your decision, your practice, but don't surprise me with such things. Give me as many pictures as you want, but don't solve the issue so you can put me in trouble so I can't answer you with numbers. If you want something concrete, ask me like that. I'm sorry to tell you this, but I'm having a hard time answering. However, I will now answer as much as I can to what you asked me further. Thirty-six, you said, are the crossings. Yeah, I didn't finish on the matter intentionally. I didn't want to go that way. I'm not gonna talk political. I keep trying not to. I don't remember anyone finding the checkpoint. Here, see, with a solution: Ruse In October 2017, I was there, too, we found Kynarja, Lipnitsa. It is yet to be found, as you said, in international agreements, Krushari "Dobromir." And another one, Rudozem Xanthi. That's in our plan. We follow it and we find these checkpoints. You're saying there's no funds for 160 million for Border Patrol! 160 million European aid for the upgrade of the facilities and not only that... and cars are bought. I've been told that this year just over 300 colleagues, the number is about 300, have been assigned to Border Patrol! How come we don't give money there? Yes, you show me these pictures, but I can show you pictures of many such things.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u135	These aren't pictures. They're pictures!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u136	Okay, pictures of the checkpoint. You know, there wasn't even a deputy prime minister going to make them. It's all back in time. I won't say who didn't build them and so on. Wherever we can with the resources we have, I say what we do, I leave the evaluation to you. The terms. You say: what are the conditions here, there must be a common standard. Okay, don't listen to me, whatever I can, I'm telling you, listen to Frontex. If you don't know, it's an international agency...
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u137	We know, we know!
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u138	...who passes with us on line two, and they look no worse than we do. They look at everything and they say. I have not heard any comments from them that we are protecting the border in a worse way, in the sense of bad means. There's no point in that. The comments are of a different nature. Collect all the information I have as Minister my answer is this. I'll take the pictures anyway, see where that is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-BG_2018-02-16.u139	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your participation today. This was the last question for Minister Radev, with which we complete parliamentary control. The next regular plenary session shall be on 21 February 2018 at 9.00. We're adjourned. [[PHONE RINGING]]
