ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u1	I ask colleagues and colleagues to come from the lobby or from the offices to a large debate room. I'm going to take a look at the presence in the hall so that we can begin our 15th extraordinary session. Good evening! I suggest we continue our work today. I think we need to wait for some more to join us in order to be concluding. Once again, I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. I begin the 15th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that you are detained and cannot attend today's meeting with a colleague of Dr. Andrej Bajuk and Samo Bevk. I don't have any other apologies for tonight. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I note that 55 Members and Members are present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide. I also invited representatives of the government to the meeting, whom I welcome very much. We are moving on to the agenda of the 15th extraordinary meeting. With reference to 26 March this year, you received a agenda covering only one item of the agenda, namely the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Republic of Slovenia guarantee law for the obligations of the domestic air carrier to cover the damage caused by war or terrorism and the conditions of the guarantee for foreign air carriers, following a rapid procedure. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking, does anyone want a word on withdrawals and expansions? [[No, no, ……]] Then I understand that we can move on to a debate and a decision on the proposal to adopt a law in a fast procedure. The proposal for a law was submitted by the Government to the hearing, as it was said. At the same time, she suggested that it should be adopted on a rapid basis. Does the Minister want a word on this? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports such a decision. Does the president want a word? [[He does.]] Please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u3	With regard to the speedy procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u4	We're backing up a quick procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I ask, do representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak with regard to the procedural proposal? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. We vote on the proposal that the National Assembly adopt legislation in a fast procedure. 62 present. 58 for, no one's against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that we have adopted such a proposal. So I propose today's agenda session, which you have received with reference. You have not proposed any changes, so we can vote on the proposal. Please. We are voting on the draft agenda as a whole. 64 present. 62 for, no one against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. We're moving on to one. This is the only point of the agenda, namely the proposal of the Act amending and supplementing the Act on the Jams of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of the domestic air carrier to cover the damage caused by the war on terrorism and the conditions of the guarantee for foreign air carriers, as soon as possible. The draft law was tabled by the Government. I ask the Minister to present the proposal. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. The Government has submitted for consideration and adoption a proposal to amend the Republic of Slovenia guarantee law on the obligations of the domestic carrier to cover the damage caused by military or terrorism and on the terms and conditions of the guarantee for foreign air carriers. As you are aware, this law was passed after the events of 11 September in the United States and was subsequently extended, with the first amendment, so that its validity expires on 31 March or the end of this month. The relevant authorities in both Europe and the United States, in particular the European authorities and European governments, have not yet adopted a definitive position on how they intend to deal with this in advance, and the latest information is that the Council of Transport Ministers of the European Union has provisionally extended this deadline for a similar guarantee as we accept it for the next two months. We therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt this law or amendments to the law extending the time limit until 31.12., by introducing procedures also through a contract when this guarantee is terminated in case of different solutions. And another news is that this also provides a guarantee for the aircraft that Adria Airways is taking on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr Minister, for presenting the proposal. The draft law was examined by the Committee. The president wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At yesterday's meeting, we discussed that law on the committee and adopted a decision, as I have already said, that we support a rapid procedure. We have adopted two amendments to Article 2 of the bill below. The first is Article 2a to amend Article 2a, as stated in the written form, so as not to repeat it. However, Article 2b suggests that this Article be deleted. However, since I am already speaking, Mr President, if you will allow me, I would like to propose one more editorial amendment to Article 3. In order to make it clearer in this law, in the first paragraph of Article 3, the word "law" should be added to the word "with the provision of Article 1 of this Law" so that the harmonisation applies from 31 March 2002. It is only that a better understanding will be added to this article, "with the provision of Article 1 of this Law". It's an editorial correction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members if they wish. [[Nobody.]] Then I call to the word of the Members and Members. They want a debate? Comrade Petty Officer has his first five-minute debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. I only have two questions I'd like to address to the government. The European countries adopted a decision on the extension yesterday or the European Union and I am interested in how long. I'm also interested in the following. Whether our government participates or participates in the creation of this European "insurance pool" for such cases. How much does a government involve in the search for solutions? Aren't they at all? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Who among the Members and Members wants to discuss it? Mr. Minister? Please. Would you like to answer the question raised? Just Answer [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u12	Thank you very much. First question, how long? Temporarily for two months. But that was a decision made yesterday, so of course we have this information today. However, we propose to extend the validity of this law until the end of the year, with a clear possibility that this guarantee will, of course, be terminated when necessary. However, we are following these developments and, of course, we do not have a bearing on the decisions of EU transport ministers at this time. However, we cooperate with all the bodies associated with aviation in the world, such as ICAO and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick's colleague wants to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary! Just one question or two. First time. The United States government recently decided, at least it intended not to extend these guarantees. If I'm wrong, please correct me for not hearing the latest news. Secondly, I wonder what financial implications this extension will have? Who pays the premium, at what amount and, is the airline responsible for part of this premium? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I invite the Minister to answer these two questions as well. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u16	The air carrier pays a normal premium. Obligations, which also state what financial obligations are, would arise in the event of any such events for which the guarantee is given.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? A colleague of Dr. Bernik and a colleague of Barovich. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Dr. Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u18	I wanted to ask you the following questions. As far as I know, "stand by" credits, as it's called, are quite expensive, and you didn't mention it. Maybe. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u19	Comrade Dr. Bernick, just a moment! I think you're distracting him in the neighborhood. I don't think that's fair. No offense to say it out loud, but that's right. Comrade Dr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Well, that's all I wanted to ask you is whether it's "stand by" credit or something. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u21	Comrade Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I was present at the first meeting of the home committee, where many words were made around the guarantee to be given by the State to the air carrier in the event of terrorist attacks and so on. There was a lot of debate back then, and we agreed, of course, that we certainly want Adria Airways to do business normally. I myself would have a question for the Minister. It's been a while since then. Otherwise, we read in the report that the European Union countries are still looking for solutions. However, I wonder if you have any information as to how many other European countries have the protection of airlines with similar content and in what way other countries regulate - or also, with the State guarantee - if any, and comparatively possible, for how long, and comparatively, for how much money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u23	Thank you very much. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask the Minister whether, in the event of the insurance of these aircraft, or the damage caused if taken, on aircraft or caused by aircraft, whether the latest Drnovšk aircraft, which we know is already causing damage to the State and the economy, is included here, because it is spending significantly more money than it should. I would also like to know whether this aircraft is also included among domestic carriers, in accordance with the amendment which the Committee has tabled to Article 2.a. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u25	Just a moment, Minister. Anyone else want a word from their colleagues? [[He doesn't want to.]] You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u26	I'll try to answer both of you. So, as far as the European Union is concerned, this is considered to be similar to the guarantee, as I said before, in terms of State aid and also as a guarantee. I think it was also a question of how long. The Council of Ministers of Transport held a meeting the night before yesterday, extending the matter temporarily by two months. They just decided to extend it every two months, and there is no other proposal. At Mr Jelinčič's question, however, I must say that this aircraft does not fall within the category of aircraft for which the State guarantees. After all, such aircraft are also government or what they are called, in Slovenia many others. It's the passenger planes of our air carrier.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much. First, colleague Barovic, behind him colleague Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much for your answer. Complementary question. If I understood earlier, are we talking about an extension today - if I understood correctly, if I did not, I apologize - by 31 December? We will do differently than, if I understand you correctly, in other countries where they extend every two months. And if, why is that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary! In the media, the government has reported that the aircraft purchased by Mr Drnovšek for its purposes will be used multi-purposely. This means that this will at the same time be a transport aircraft, a plane that will throw downers, an aircraft that will transport patients that will transport government gentlemen and passengers. That's what I'm saying. I'm interested in where this plane belongs. If it falls within this broad sphere, as I have now numbered it, and the government has proposed it, then this aircraft should also be judged in this case. According to your statement that there are several such aircraft in Slovenia, I am interested, for now I know only one such government aircraft and I would like to know if there is any such government aircraft that we will know about in six months. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u31	Comrade Jelinczych! You know for yourself that you have now exceeded the rules of procedure. We all refer to him. I am most obliged to take it into account, of all or as chairman. Your question has already been answered. If the minister wishes to add something to this answer, he is kindly invited to do so. And, of course, he is invited to answer the question of Comrade Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u32	Mr. Barovich. I already said before that by 31.12., it is possible, of course, for different decisions or different solutions to this problem, that this contract can also be terminated. Why until 31.12.? Because the National Assembly does not meet every two months on this subject. If such a decision had been taken by the time the law was first adopted, we would probably be meeting on this subject fewer than once already. That's a suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u33	Okay. Anyone else want a word? Otherwise, I'll close the debate. Excuse me? My friend Jelinczych. But I'm asking you to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would still ask for an answer at least to that part of whether there is any such aircraft in Slovenia. [[A laugh in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u35	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u36	I have to say, I'm not an expert on airplanes like you. I mean, not exactly that kind of plane, but the smaller planes, we probably have something else. You're better acquainted with this than I am. However, this law deals with the aircraft of our air carrier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u37	I don't think we need to discuss this anymore. Please, please, please, please, please, I'm asking for peace in the hall. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u38	Thank you. I'm just asking. I understand until 31.12. or as long as 31.12. However, if conditions change, I am only interested in whether this will apply until 31.12. or in what way, if insurance conditions change, how will we or will we interrupt today, say, the proposal adopted, under new conditions, or whether we will remain under the adopted law by 31 December. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u39	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u40	I think it's going to be the right answer. We even wrote in the proposal of this law to essentially give the State Assembly the power of the government to end this duration, the duration of this guarantee, of this law. However, following a discussion yesterday at a meeting of the Infrastructure Committee or in the opinion of the secretariat for legislation, this article was deleted. That is to say that I think I am correct in explaining that we must come to the national assembly by the end of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-27-SDZ3-Izredna-15.ana.u41	I don't see any more applications for discussion. I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a second reading, namely to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. We'll go from article to article. We will first decide on the text of Article 1, then we have two amendments to Article 2. We also have an amendment to Article 3. Article 4 is without an amendment. So we'll decide from article to article. First, I shall put the text of Article 1 into the debate and decision-making. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I shall put the text of Article 1 to the vote. We're voting. I'm at 65. 53 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] The text of Article 1 is adopted. We have two amendments to Article 2. Anybody want to talk about them? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2. It is an amendment to amend the text of Article 2a by saying: "The guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia referred to in Article 2 of the Act also includes the obligations of the domestic air carrier under the liability of the damage caused by the aircraft to be leased". I'll put that amendment to the vote. We're voting. We're voting on the amendment. 64 present. 54 for, no one's against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 63 present, 52 in, one in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I note that this amendment, after which paragraph 2b is deleted, has also been adopted. This way we can move on to the amendment to Article 3. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 3 [[You have an amendment on the special sheet you received on the bench, and I think it's just splitting up or you already have it in front of you.]] . It is an amendment to Article 3 to add, in the first paragraph of Article 3, the word "law" shall be added "with the provision of Article 1 of this Law". The applicant for the amendment is colleague Gerencher. We are voting on the proposal for an amendment to Article 3. 67 present, 54 for, one against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We can vote on the whole article. Please, we are voting on the whole article. 62 present, 51 for, none against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the article has been voted out. I shall put the text of Article 4 into discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the text of Article 4. We're voting. We vote on the text of Article 4. 63 present, 54 for, none against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. We decide on the title of the law. 64 present, 57 for, none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We're moving to third reading. Amendments were tabled by Articles 2 and 3. This means that qualified applicants have the possibility to make amendments to these articles if they so wish. I'm asking, does anyone want to table any amendments? I'm guessing there's no one. On the basis of paragraph 3 of Rule 198 of the Rules of Procedure, I ask the Secretariat whether there is a breach of mutual conformity? [[It's not.]] We are moving on to a full decision on the law. Does anyone want a word before making a full decision on the law? [[Nobody.]] We therefore vote on the bill as a whole. 65 present, 57 for, none against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 15th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I thank all of you for your cooperation, and I wish you a pleasant evening. I'll see you tomorrow at 10 a.m. at the following 14th regular session of the National Assembly.
