ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u1	I ask fellow Members and fellow Members to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly. The clock on the display shows a minute after 2:00. Please take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, nice turks this afternoon I wish everyone! Please sit in your seats and allow me to conduct a session in peace, for which I thank you in advance. I would like to inform you that some of our colleagues will not be with us this afternoon. These are colleagues: Bozič, Petan, Cimperman, Štemberger, Jelinčič, Podobnik, Malovrek, Peterle, Jakič, colleague Merlo from 4.30 pm and colleague Sušnik Now I ask that by voting or pressing the "quorum" button, we determine the presence in the hall. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. 55 present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I also invited the President of the Assembly of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute, Mrs Ana Mokorel, to attend today's meeting. I welcome the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Today's continuation of the 15th session will begin with the consideration of item 34a of the agenda, this is a proposal for a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, then we will move on to the 35th item, that is to the elections and appointments, then to the 6th item, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products and Substances in Contact with Food, and in order to proceed. In addition, I would like to inform you that you will also be informed in writing, colleagues and colleagues, of the arrangements we have concluded today at the College concerning the course of this meeting of the National Assembly, with the time and days when the individual points will be dealt with. When possible, you will receive this written notice, and I ask you kindly to consider it, for which I sincerely thank you. We move on to the 34th A Dot of the Day - Proposal by the Candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. For elections, appointments and administrative matters, the Commission tabled a proposal for the election of Mr Valentin Pohorc as Vice-President of the National Assembly. I ask whether the rapporteur wishes to speak. [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of one of the members of the Group? [[He does.]] Comrade Visjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the parliamentary group, I would have a candidate for such an important position as the Vice-President of the National Assembly, in particular the question relating to the latest developments concerning the DeSUS Group of Members, whose member is also a candidate for Vice-President. I am interested in his personal view of the statements made by some of the leading and influential members of DeSUS that it is normal to trade political and other views of the party in terms of the replacement for donations, in terms of the exchange of views, the votes for contributions to parliamentary groups or political parties. I am interested in his personal position, whether he himself supports such a way of political action, or whether he will later, in this function, somehow stand behind these positions and these methods, if that political voice can be bought or indirectly influenced by money, with the contributions of political parties to decisions in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u3	Please. Does any other group want a word? Comrade Juice, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. In our parliamentary group, New Slovenia, we have decided not to support Mr Pohorc's candidate for Vice-President of this National Assembly today in secret elections. The reason for this decision is that we have recently decided here in this National Assembly that the people of our municipalities or the communities where they decided that they wanted to have their own congregations can decide whether they really wanted it or not. Since Mr Pohorec was also among those Members of this National Assembly who voted smoothly against this constitutional option, and we are convinced that this is contrary to the Constitution, we have therefore decided that we cannot support the candidate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? I'm asking for peace in the hall. I find that none of the members of the Group would like a word. I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. They're discussing it for five minutes. My friend Pohorec wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words and thank you very much, Mr Vizjak, for this question, because I am extremely pleased that it has been exposed, that I can also take this opportunity to say what I know about this and what my view of this question is. I've never been subjected to this in my life. If I were, I'd have something "more" under my nickname, like I have. But everything I have is earned by my own work. I strongly reject any such combination. I'm against them. Especially in this matter, as far as the insurance law is concerned. As a member of the Finance Committee, I supported the Government's proposal, voted in favour of the proposals, what has been done so far on the Finance Committee, and I will also do so in this National Assembly. I absolutely support the position or proposal made by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with full responsibility for this issue. The referendum on municipalities - I will not intervene in the content, I have my own opinion on every issue, I vote in this way; I do not run out of the hall, I do not draw a card when something is to be decided, and I also believe that this country should first adopt constitutional changes, define the landscapes and then upgrade the local self-government, which it still lacks. On this issue, I would no longer distribute anything further. I am very sorry that this information has come to the public, which I have most learned this morning. On Fridays or Thursdays, I was in Skopje, I came home late on Saturday, I did not read the newspaper, I dedicated myself to my family, but today I was surprised. Although my nails are clean, as far as I'm concerned about black nails, I'm saying I'm not connected to anything. But if a single word is now spoken as a lie, even though I will be elected, I will withdraw from this place immediately. I have nothing to do with this, and I will never support such matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u7	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u8	I had not previously spoken to the Group of Members, because I did not think that it was necessary to explain in particular the views of the Group of Members, nor my own personal, but now I have come to my attention, because it would not be good if something remained in the air in this kind of routine work, so that we did not say our position clearly and loudly. At the beginning of our term of office, we were given what the parliamentary groups agreed among themselves on the functions that individual Members and Members are supposed to have in the national assembly and, of course, within this individual Members and Members of Parliament, that this division was done after long discussions at the end of the debate correctly, and we believe that it is right to leave this proposal, which is now to be a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly, to the DeSUS Group. This means for us that any proposed by the Group of Members will also be supported. On current matters, however, I do not think they can affect our decision at this time, so I think it is right that, for the first time, the DeSUS Group is proposing a candidate, but that I will also act in accordance with the fact that I am also supporting Mr Pohorc in candidacy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. Comrade Partlych, behind you, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u10	It may seem like I'm speaking more literaryly again, but let me just say that I may be the only one here who I've known my colleague Valentina for 38 years. If I turned a little funny, I don't know if you know what's not essential to this candidacy that he's married the second time. First of all, I was a schoolmate with his first wife and I was teaching his current wife. So you know I know him well. It comes out, as we used to say, of such boys, of the labour-agrarian Slovenian family, with a very large number of children. There, people worked on the earth, while at the same time serving bread at a sugary paper factory. Both his father and his many brothers and sisters. And Valentine also trained as a qualified worker, and all the time he was educated at work, he was one of the most active people in all society, and I saw him in a fireman's uniform days ago. He was also a pretty good amateur theatre player, or it's not important. But I do have a photograph of him from those days when he played priest and sometimes where I show that he served bread with it. I even think that even though he was further educated that he had become a Member towards the end of his active career, that this is probably the most he has achieved for him in some way. And if he's vice president of the National Assembly, I don't think he could have expected that. I also say this because it is not a delayed frame with which we do not know where, but we give it one such function, but it is a man who, in my opinion, will do so with all responsibility and conscience, as it has done so far. Of course, I don't dare judge what was in your client, because I also heard different opinions about the candidates. I don't think that's any of our business. Since I know him as a modest, working, naturally extremely bright boy, I will, of course, support his candidacy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you very much. I'm a colleague of Kebrich's. You're the last one on my list. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues. There is democracy in our parliamentary group. The same is true of democracy in the party, regardless of whether someone takes advantage of it or understands it in his own way. Everything that came to the public when we discussed twice in the parliamentary group who would be the candidate, because we thought that at the beginning of the constitution of the National Assembly and the functions of the National Assembly, we had agreed which party belonged. We believed that this belonged to us and that there were no such objections at the college. When we have agreed and proposed to our colleague, Valentin Pohorc, as Vice-President of the National Assembly, this is our internal matter and we stand behind this agreement by all four Members, because we are open to each other and because we respect each other and what we agree on, we also want to do so. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you, Comrade Kebrich. Anyone else want a word? Peace in the hall, please! [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. In accordance with Article 244 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the vote for the Vice-President of the National Assembly shall be secret. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret ballot shall be held by the Presidents-in-Office with the assistance of the Secretary-General and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on my proposal. Representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members or members of the committee who run this vote. These are colleagues of Moga, Kelemina, Juri and colleague Zupanov, and I am also a member of this committee as chairman. Does anyone object to such a proposal and have a different opinion? I'm guessing there's no one. We can move on to a decision on the composition of the commission. Let's vote! I'm asking for peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote on the commission's composition. 62 present. 57 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the Commission has been adopted in the proposed composition. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a vote shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the table of the President and shall state his name and surname. The Member who will assist me in carrying out the vote shall deliver a vote to each Member and the Secretary-General shall indicate on behalf and surname of the Member in the list that the vote has been delivered to him. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot that is not completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above shall be invalid. In accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure, the candidate will be elected if the majority of all Members, i.e. 46 or more, vote in favour. We will vote in the Chamber. The Members and Members of Parliament will put the completed voice box in the voting box, which will be on the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. Members who will assist me in the vote, please report to room 217 immediately, where we will take over the voting material. The vote will begin at 2.35 p.m. and will last until 2.50 p.m. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to reconvene in room 117. So, once again, the vote will begin at 2.35 p.m., and it will last until 2.50 p.m. I'm asking the commission to come to room 217 to conduct the election. Please. We'll continue the meeting at 3 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u14	I would like to inform you of the outcome of the vote on the election as Vice-President of the National Assembly. Once again, politely, it's time to come back to the hall for a minute at 3 p.m. I'm going to proceed with the abort of the 34th A-point of the agenda. Can we find out if there is a presence in the hall? I'm picking up a presence in the hall! 53 present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. Allow me to read the minutes on the outcome of the vote on the election of the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for peace in the hall! The vote was held on 23 April 2002 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 78 ballots were distributed. 78 ballots were delivered. None of them were invalid. So 78 votes were valid. 63 members voted in favour and 15 against. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] On the basis of this outcome, Mr Valentin Pohorec was elected Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. [[Let's hear it.]] Congratulations to my colleague Pohorc on his election to this important position. On behalf of all of you, I wish you all well in the performance of this duty. Do you want a word? Please. Peace in the hall! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u15	Mr Borut Pahor, Honourable Vice-President, Mrs Irma Krebs Pavlinič and Vice-President, Dr Miha Brejc! Dear Secretary-General and other co-workers of the National Assembly and the leaders of the parliamentary groups of all parties in the National Assembly! Colleagues and colleagues! I thank you for your confidence that you have elected me as the third Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Together with the Vice-President, I will assist in the conduct of this well-respected National Assembly to the best of my ability and ability. I ask you, my fellow Members and my colleagues and, in particular, the leaders of the Group of Members, to work together on the great work ahead of us by the end of the term of office. When I hold a meeting of the National Assembly or organize the work of this Assembly, I will respect the Constitution, the laws and the rules of procedure. When I hold a meeting, it will be just a process of democracy for me and the content of the decision should take place within the Chamber. This election is a great challenge for me and I will put all my knowledge, experience and strength into it. Thanks again for trusting me! [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you, Comrade Pohorec. In your words, we also end point 34a. We're moving, as agreed to last week's college, to 35. PERIOD OF THE DAY - LOVE AND NAMES. The assembly will consider under this item of the agenda the proposal of the Assembly of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute on the consent of the appointment of the Director-General of the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia and the proposals of the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs, namely the appointment of five members of the Council of RTV Slovenia, the appointment of five members of the Supervisory Board of RTV Slovenia, the amendment of the decision on the establishment of the Board of Telecommunications and the amendment of the decision on the composition and election of the Commission of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Rules of Procedure. We are now moving on to the consideration and decision-making of individual proposals. We will first discuss and decide on the proposal of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute Assembly on the consent to the appointment of the Director General of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute. The Assembly of the Office of the National Assembly proposes that it agree to appoint Mr Franc Koshir as Director-General of the Slovenian Health Insurance Institute for a period of four years. I've already invited a representative of the institution to the hall, which I now welcome. You want a word? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u17	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! As President of the Slovenian Institute of Health Insurance, I would like to give you, honourable Members and Members, some arguments for your decision today to agree to appoint Mr Franc Koshir as Director-General of the Institute. As you are aware, the Assembly of the Institute appointed, on a proposal from the Management Board of the Office, by secret ballot and by a two-thirds majority, the Director-General of Mr Franz Koshir, the University Graduate Lawyer from Ljubljana, for a term of four years. After a broad and thorough professional discussion, we have given a positive assessment of its work so far and, above all, an innovative plan of vision, objectives, strategies and projects for the next mandate period. In support of such a decision by the Assembly of the Institute, the fact that Mr Franz Košir has demonstrated, with his previous leadership, exceptional professional competence and, above all, his personal commitment to the efficient and stable management of such an important institution of this country is certainly speaking. During the difficult transition period, the entire health system has acted financially stable, respecting the principles of solidarity and reciprocity and accessibility in the exercise of the rights of insured persons. The appropriateness of the system itself and its proper development, as well as the positive effects of the projects carried out, of national importance, such as the establishment of compulsory health insurance, voluntary health insurance, the establishment of a Mutual, as the first specialised health insurance undertaking, the introduction of a health insurance card and other, recognises and very positively assesses the international public. However, it is certainly not possible to overlook the fact that Mr Koshir, as the basis and instrument for the conduct, management and motivation of more than 900 employees, has designed more than 900 employees on the basis of the strategic development programme adopted by the Assembly of the Institute in 1997, on the basis of which a large number of challenging projects have been successfully implemented. However, Mr Koshir has further supported the continuation of the successful management and prudent development of the entire health insurance system with his colleagues with a new, this time already third strategic development programme for the period up to 2007. The focus and strategies of this development programme are on those to whom this system belongs to all of us protected persons in the Republic of Slovenia. Let me conclude by stressing that, for the professional management of the institution, as Mr Franz Koshir has been implementing for years, neither the institution nor the health insurance system can be owned by any political party, no political option. Under the current Director-General, that will be the case. The autonomous management of the public health treasury and the two-thirds majority of representatives of employers, workers, farmers, pensioners and disabled persons are certainly proof of the continuation of such management, which requires its confirmation here also today from you elected representatives of citizens in the National Assembly. I expect you to take into account the decision of the Assembly of the Institute and give your consent to the appointment of Mr Franc Koshir as Director-General of the Slovenian Institute for Health Insurance. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Madam President of the Assembly. The proposal was addressed by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission and submitted a report to the assembly. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] That is how I now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Does any of the members of the group wish to present their views? Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will certainly give its consent or vote for the agreement reached by the Assembly of the Institute in accordance with the Health and Insurance Act. We have been following for quite some time all the developments related to the healthcare and insurance system, including all the measures taken by the same institution as the Ministry of Health. We can only find out that I have been personally monitoring the work of the institution for the sixth year as the parent working body of the national assembly covering this area and two years more intensively than the president of this working body. I can see that the healthcare system, although some consider it to be somewhat late or, I would say, conservative, is the contribution that we have in our country, in health care and health services still European, if not globally comparable standards and services as such. However, they do arise in the healthcare system mainly through certain events that cannot be avoided by practically no society on the old continent, certain problems mainly in the maintenance and provision of the same rights and services as they have been, even in the future, given the growing need for funds and the increasingly less and more uncertain constant inflows. In doing so, let me mention just maybe two of these key factors that we somehow dislike to open debates and use them as an argument. The key is that with each departure of an active pensioner, on that day a deficit of 6.36 per cent of his net salary or whatever we take into the health insurance system, while, according to his age, he becomes a much larger consumer or user of health services and services. Last but not least, any interference in salary increases, both for doctors and for other healthcare professionals, is a very clear financial pressure on the health treasury. As a result, there have also been developments in the last year that have been recorded with deficits. I must say that there is no question here whether Mr Koshir yes or Mr Kosher does not. Here is a proposal from the Assembly of the Health Insurance Institute, which, by its plural composition, is an autonomous body that has come to agree to this national assembly in the best belief that there is no other or better alternative at this time. At this point, there is a better alternative than the one already implemented by the Health Insurance Office throughout all decades of existence and even in recent times, not perhaps a key person in the institution, but, above all, the Ministry of Health's approach to an approach by argument or by way of working and implementing its vision in the system and developing health care by means of amendments to acts, legal changes, additions, proposals. This is a key act that is not present. Therefore, we are in no position in our Group to agree to the argument that the Health Insurance Office has been running the candidate for the next four years long enough and that it is necessary to make changes. Something is not good, certainly, in every system are good and also bad, and it is necessary to try to make flaws or perhaps less good things better. This is an approach, not an argument that the Director-General may have gotten tired. That's not true. Whoever was willing to monitor the analysis of the state and work in the health insurance system through the ten-year existence of a health insurance institution could have found that the institution is doing well and how good it would be for any other state institution to at least do so well and operate not only business. The only thing we have at this time in the field of health care and insurance that is useful for discussion is how to improve the system, how to solve the sword of Damocles, which is above the system with regard to the growing gap between the expectations of insurers and the ability of the system to service it through the daily tides. The only thing offered at this time is the strategic development programme prepared by the Institute. It was kind of sad when this strategic development programme was presented to all Slovenian authorities who were familiar with and involved in health insurance, the Ministry of Health was not prepared to send even the smallest adviser, let alone a sub-secretary or secretary, if he did not already feel the duty of the Minister himself to provide a source of how to improve the health care and insurance system and what programmes the Ministry was preparing. Unfortunately, at this point, the Ministry has nothing. In many ways, in the Group of Members and I personally support the Minister in his efforts to correct or improve certain deficiencies in the health and health insurance system as such, but also the arrogant attitude towards the healthcare system established through the Institute Assembly, but I did not expect it. I know at this point, we have nothing but what the agency has offered ourselves. We are now asking in our parliamentary group whether it is the right time for us not to give our consent at this time to the role of the assembly of the institution to allow the institution, with a team that has prepared a strategic development programme or a project for 2007, to at least try to implement it, although I would expect the Ministry of Health to be more positive and more actively involved in this. After all, it is also bound by conclusions that have been adopted both in the home labour body and in this national assembly, and it is already very late in some of the expected solutions. In addition, he's putting us in a great deal of scepticism, and we've been expecting a lot from a project co-financed by a large amount of money from the World Bank, the development of healthcare management systems. Unfortunately, this project has fallen back on the ground, not because of the institution, which is a very important actor here, but I have to say, as we see, again because of the Ministry's unwillingness to join it more actively with its team. I must also stress this, as this project began, whose acting director was Mrs Popoviceva, we were looking forward to the results again with optimism. Unfortunately, none of this is practical. We are therefore wondering what, after this national assembly has not been prepared in the light of the decisions taken by Kviaz, will give the consent that the institution has come in accordance with the law. This is said to be an untrustworthy institution, a congregation of institutions, not an institution, a congregation that is made up of extraordinary pluralism, as you can see from the last elections. Do we have an alternative to this place? Do we have an alternative in some marriage proposal to complement the health care and insurance system in accordance with the rules of the Ministry's game, which is responsible for this? Bringing the system, as I see it, with the current approach to the ground, is a very risky act, so that Europe and the world do not approach. Health care is such a sensitive topic and for every citizen so important a topic and the question that the modern world and Europe only allow themselves to enter into changing and complementing the system through such and different legal proposals. In any event, our Group of Members will give its consent to appoint the Director-General of the Health Insurance Office. Not only that, but in particular, we expect the Health Insurance Office or the team that is currently at the head of the institution to be able to implement the programme, the strategic development programme presented by the Ministry and the Ministry. However, I know that the Ministry, including Minister Dusan Kebro of course, is on the move, but not in the open, frontal state that is now set in all areas. I tell you, this assembly has faced serious problems this year, serious challenges to overcome the situation that will arise in the healthcare and insurance system, including measures such as these today, unless the National Assembly finds wisdom to give its consent to the proposal of the Assembly of the Institute. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič, for the position of the SLS Group. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Comrade Drobnič, behind you by your colleague Celigoj on behalf of DeSUS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I very much welcome my colleagues as well as the representative of the Health Insurance Office! The position of Nova Slovenije is to support Mr Koshir as Director of the Health Insurance Institute. We base this on the following reasons. Firstly, it advocates the autonomy of the insurance undertaking, which is the marriage for the rational behaviour of the insurance undertaking, the provision of a decent level of rights for the insured and the responsibility for the business. In our country, we face the opposite trends, so that things are being maintained. This is the wrong way. The insurance and independence and independence were ensured by the start of a new image of Slovenia and we think it is the right way. In such turbulent times as now, it is important that someone who has done a good job continues to do so. This is a rule that also applies in entrepreneurship - do not shut down, do not take away, do not put away a man who has done things well. If we had made a different decision, we would in fact have given no confidence to those who run this insurance company, i.e. the non-trust of the congregation, the non-trust of workers, the non-trust of insured persons, the distrust of disabled persons and, hence, others who represent this entity. This means denial of representation. Do we want to happen to us in this country, as with the institution for pension and disability insurance, where they say themselves in this institution that they are not responsible for doing business, because they only execute. Dear colleagues, do we want an insurance company like this? Not me. It is with this autonomy that responsibility can also be guaranteed. In recent times, the Institute for Health Insurance, under the leadership of Mr Koshir, has responded to changes and difficulties. He has therefore prepared a strategy, a new strategy for the next period. I, I have to say honestly, I admit, I've missed something similar from the Ministry. Unfortunately, we didn't get that. That way, we don't know what the alternative is to this program. Maybe it's what I mentioned at the outset: instead of autonomy, maintenance. These are the reasons why we will support or agree to the appointment of the Director of the Health Insurance Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. And now you, Comrade Celigoj, or colleague of Pohorec, have the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u23	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. I may have to speak a little harder this time because I was given confidence earlier, but today I will have to talk about the fact that unfortunately our Group of Members is no longer trusting the current leadership, or personally Mr Franz Kosher, the director of this institution. We have really talked a lot about this issue, and we have consulted many times with others. We discussed this in particular when we discussed the Law amending the Health Insurance Act when we had to - you want, you don't want us to support certain changes in the reduction of insurance rights. Then we're on the ground, I personally got a lot of bitter words, you start saving on people's shoulders, and that's on those who need it the most. I am talking about those reduced costs of transport or payment of transport costs, post-mortems and the like. That's how we were in an awkward situation. We wonder if it is true that whenever an organization such as a health insurance agency is in trouble, it is necessary to start saving and saving this loss on the shoulders of people, as we like to say, and others so much like to tell us when we meet their constituents, with their citizens. And that's how I use this term forward. There has been no other business expenditure during this period, and especially in recent years, which could also be reduced, modified, rationalised. Even within this palace is spoken or heard and seen, as many superlatives, which others, many companies that barely survive, who barely operate, barely pay their workers, cannot afford. Nothing here has changed in reducing these costs. We're wondering if the manager who put some company, some organization in a loss, a bad position, can save the company. He had the opportunity to lead it well, to propose measures in a timely manner, to review changes to laws in a timely manner. When an organization enters such a situation, it usually takes place in the world, as well as in us, where the organization is valid, it saves and leads a new leadership from this position. If changes are needed in this institution and in general in the system, then this can also be achieved with a new man in this situation. The Minister of Health, Dr. Keber, has honestly told us many things that we took to be true. We could read many in the newspaper, hear from the media, and have no reason not to believe them. Finally, with his election, we gave the minister confidence and a mandate to resolve this area. The opinion of our parliamentary group is united and we will not vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does any of the other MPs want any more? [[He does.]] Dr. Tsukati will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. You have the floor, mate Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! In view of the fact that the Assembly supported Mr Koshir's candidacy by a two-thirds majority vote in secret, that is, those who collect money, representatives of insurers, employers, pensioners and so on, and given that the vast majority of the health service, you can ask hospital directors, health care providers, including directors of various political colours, since they are bilaterals involved in this process and among which the insurance company must actually feed, both parties are satisfied with such guidance, very satisfied with the numbers. You'd think because it doesn't make sense to say anything, it'll be a routine confirmation and it'll be over. I am very surprised that the parent committee first rejects the candidacy or halves, half by, half by. Then I also hear in my response a number of arguments or assurances that he is not a suitable candidate. Let me just mention which of the reasons have been cited recently against his candidacy. First of all, the reason he's been in this position too long. Your Honor, this is not a political function, and even in the political functions of your politicians we have never, or I have not opposed, because it has been in this function for a long time. If he's doing his job well, thank God. However, in the case of professional functions, this principle is very dangerous and unfair. Well, that's not why he convinced me. The second reason came with that erythropoietin, you know, a medicine that doctors wrongly prescribed on an account to solve the hospital’s liquidity problems or to gain profits, was that they were unfairly profiting from the hospital. Dearly beloved, it is very interesting that this affair has been triggered by politics, the one responsible for these institutions not to cheat. Who's the founder of hospitals? Government, Ministry. Who has the majority in holy hospitals, the majority - the founder, the majority in these councils, appointed and confirmed by the government on a proposal from the Minister of Health. Who's got the majority in tech worlds? You know, even the current minister was once the expert director of the clinical centre, and you are also aware of the cases that he was also solving and defending himself because years ago the supervision of the health insurance institution found such errors in the clinical centre and, of course, the clinical centre punished for such violations. But politics wanted to put this affair back on the line for health insurance. A third reason is constantly emerging - rigidity and inappropriate way of financing health care, which is why there are so many and so many deviations, so many bad, inefficient things in the health service, in hospitals, in health homes, because it is a rigid and poor way of financing. Since 1992, I have been sitting in negotiations between the Health Insurance Office, health care providers and the Ministry of Health since 1992. I know exactly how these things run. These are painful negotiations every year on how to finance, gentlemen. And that's not how Koshir decides. This method is decided in the last instance by a minister or government, because if the three partners fail to agree on the negotiations, then the government will decide on it by law. And Kosher would have changed a long time ago, and he has already proposed a hundred additions in these ways of financing, but it does not work, because, finally, he always rules his own decisions. I'd like to mention that famous way of funding after diagnosis. Gentlemen, since 1992, I have been actively involved in funding and health insurance from the Chamber. We have studied most European models, especially those with this system: a system of post-diagnosis funding. Five, six years ago, we even wanted an Austrian list and a short translation of the model. We have been warned everywhere, do not be stupid, everywhere, because abroad, the knowledge of this system, do not copy it because there are so many mistakes in it that your head will still ache for a long time. It's a messy, immature, yet inexplicable way of funding. Try a small, experimental hospital, that, that, that third, this group of diagnostics and the like. This is because the arguments hang very banally on Mr Kosher, as if it were his fault that it did not run. And I'm glad that he's not a supporter of crucial, irreversible changes overnight. Although, as I say, he has repeatedly and repeatedly wanted to improve the system, he has failed through these negotiations. And, of course, the argument of loss. Gentlemen, losses, we're back. The law establishes rights, the law determines the contribution rate, and now you work, guarantee these rights that someone prescribes for you, with the means that someone gives you. Then let's go to the liquidity or the illiquidity of the institution. There's no question here whether the facility was liquid or illiquid. The system is whether it is liquid or illiquid. In doing so, I will tell you that we have never had as stable a health care funding as we have in the last ten years since 1945. That's what all the directors can tell you, including your colors. And your colors. And about the losses and the records themselves. Compare with large systems, such as a disability and pension institution. Surely, the Institute for Disability and Pension Insurance has an inadequately clear possibility and is more accurately able to anticipate income and expenditure. Definitely. But he keeps showing up, he's in a lot of trouble. And not lonely, there are also cases of strange loans to private people and similar things and unclear finances, but it doesn't bother anyone. In health, gentlemen, income can be predicted, but expenditure can't. Very hard. Who can predict how healthy people will be next year and how sick they will be? And who will predict what the price of medicines and other things we don't actually have in terms of imports will be that much impact. Nevertheless, I say, health care has been stablely financed so far. I'd like you, my dear colleagues, to see that we've outgrown the human resources clearing system, a system where there's been a change of people at an unestablished level. As long as and in this case health care is faced with major tasks, really big tasks, because these questions of demand and offers of opportunities to offer to the population and the requirements of patients with or to the ageing population, given this deepening discrimination, we will soon be in an even worse crisis and will be even more difficult to solve. At a time like this, at a time like this, to make human resources transfers at some baseless level, I don't think it's state-of-the-art. I would say that, however, the elections are long gone, many things have been settled by the takeover of power, that some basic sense of respect for another assembly, which is not so politically defined, and respect for some issues whose resolution is state-run, should, however, show here another way of dealing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much. There are no more representatives of the groups of Members on my list, so I would like to invite Members and Members to the floor if they so wish. I do not have written applications for the debate, so I limit it to 5 minutes later. Excuse me? You have the floor. I'm limiting the debate for five minutes. My friend Kavečič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you for your word. We expect changes from the Slovenian health system. And this important change, development in the direction of health care towards citizens and more obedience to the economy. The Ministry of Health, with Minister Kebra at the helm, has made changes. It is hard to imagine, however, that important changes to better Slovenian health care could have taken place without personnel changes at the head of the health insurance company. Why? The health insurance company is a financial giant who turns 300 billion tolars a year. In the last decade, this financial giant has also dictated the rules of the health game. On this basis, however, the following problems are becoming increasingly apparent. Slovenian citizens are becoming increasingly unequal due to the poor concept of the Slovenian health care system under the tactics of health insurance companies. Ljubljanans suffer from significantly poor access to health services, as is the case in some other cities. Data show that accessibility to health services in Ljubljana is 25% worse than in Maribor, for example. The health insurance company has set up a system under which it finances capacity, not the needs of the population. As a result, maternity care, for example, extended maternity hospitalization. In hospitals, healthy mothers were kept just to keep their beds occupied. In Slovenia we kept almost all the paediatric beds, although we have 30% less children than ten years ago. Unfortunately, however, we cannot talk about improving the quality of services in the paediatric field. Unrational extension of hospitalisations resulted in waiting types elsewhere. Large national economic damage was caused by the waiting period for the operation of the grey eclipse, for example, in Slovenia for two years. Let us imagine the personal injuries of those affected, imagine the economic consequences of waiting for an operation that costs only half the average wage, and people have been forced to live on monetary compensation for years. Data show that the health insurance company does not treat individual hospitals equally. Celje has recognised higher prices than the recognised Novo mesto - one Koshir gives 500 million tolars and another takes 250 million tolars. Why? The health insurance company maintains an untransparent model of funding also in basic health activities. Instead of promoting a comprehensive approach to treating an individual patient, the insurance company forces doctors to carry out abnormally large numbers of checks, 40 to 50 per day, compared to 15 in Sweden. Thus, the emphasis is on quantity, rather than on humanity, a friendly relationship, an in-depth relationship with the individual patient. A key drawback is the absence of financial incentives for more cost-effective, more reasonable work by doctors. In Slovenia, therefore, there are almost no cheaper forms of treatment for patients such as daily surgery, outpatient treatment, and in more developed environments they represent more than 50% of the hospital’s work. The proposal for agreement on Mr Frantz Koshir's candidacy therefore does not support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Comrade Kavčič. A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. Today we are ahead of a very important decision in the National Assembly. In fact, the Assembly of Health Insurance is an autonomous and independent body composed of plural. Why I stress, autonomous and independent - because whenever in history politics has become unnecessarily involved in an independent and autonomous institution, history has shown that this has been wrong. I am convinced that the issue of disagreement by the National Assembly will be a serious and dangerous policy intervention in the health treasury. In fact, I am sure that most Slovenians are one of the first, or the key, of health, and if we ask citizens and citizens if they are willing to face the fact that politics starts playing with health care, they will say, "Stop policy, we don't want that policy!" And that's what this is all about. In fact, I am convinced that the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia also clearly states which institutions in this country are autonomous and operate independently, also acting as autonomous and independent financial institutions. Just what colleague Kavčič told me about the amount of money that a health insurance company operates on every year, I think that the most dangerous appetite that the health minister has at this moment probably wanted to use is the control and full control of the policy over an independent health treasury - in the slogans when this control or control through his loyal people will be carried out. I am truly surprised that the ruling LDS party and the other government party, the United List, have not presented the opinions of the members of the groups, but rather wait for the so-called voting machine. That's very worrying. That's worrying. In fact, there was a proposal at Kwiaz - when the proposal was made by the head of the LDS Group at the first meeting, to postpone that they needed further extended justification for the appointment of the Director General of the Institute for Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia. When this was obtained, it waited for some time and then, only in explaining the vote, the leader of the Group of Members at Kwiaz said that they no longer trusted the Director, but that the programme was flawed. We know, however, that the Director presented the third strategic development programme for the next period and that he wished the full professional public absolute approval, as well as the approval of the international professional institutions. But of course, as colleague Brenčič has already said, our Minister of Health did not feel worthy to send at least one of his advisers to this presentation, let alone to attend this presentation himself. I think we should also ask ourselves this: in the background of all this, it is simply a serious purpose for policy to subordinate itself to an independent health institution. And that's what I'm afraid of. This is a fear because politics is actually going too far in our country. That is why, of course, I will absolutely support and give my consent to the proposal of the Assembly of the Institute of Health Insurance of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of Mrs Franc Koshir as Director for the next term of office, because I think that this National Assembly must have so much respect to respect for the independence and autonomy of the central health institution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Comrade Dr. Bajuk, you now have 5 minutes and behind you colleague Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. President. With all determination and no doubt, I will give my voice to Mr Franz Kosher for all the reasons we have already heard today. But I would like to draw attention to another fact. I listened very carefully to the distinguished colleague of the representative of the ruling party, who was celebrating a decade of government in Slovenia yesterday, under such or different systems or the ministry of both. The fact is, I would like to find out a few things and say: welcome to Slovenia, to hear some discussion, a longer discussion, about the problems of our health system. Of course, it has not been clear and it is far from clear what this is related to, it is intended to be related to a solution to exactly the change in staffing in this area that we are deciding on today. That the Minister of Health is working on some reforms is certainly very good news for me. We knew him so far that he was wasting a lot of time proposing things like artificial fertilization and things like that. It is interesting that once and for all we will also address the real problems that ordinary citizens and citizens face when they go to our health homes and seek support in the health system of the Republic of Slovenia. But I'd like to point that out. Such a solution as Mr Kavčič has just proposed is a major mistake. A big mistake, because it pushes real questions into the background, does not really go to them and builds on the assumption that it is during this period that one person is guilty of all of this and it is this Mr Director. It doesn't make any sense. It's true that it's time they called and found out that we have a problem here. The mistake was that all these ten years were not much to talk about, but not exactly where the primary responsibility was, and this is in the government. Of course, it was a mistake, but they also misjudged their own mistake now because they are looking for the wrong solution to the real problems. In English it would be said "you mistook your misteake", your own mistake you misappreciated. And if that's how you vote, it's really fatal for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much. A colleague of Tsukati and colleague Brenčič now have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u33	I would only like to touch Mr Kavčič and his performances, in that he mentions the problem of accessibility to health care, that he is much worse in Ljubljana than in Maribor and so on. Well, we could discuss where the accessibility really is. But, of course, this is the thing about the one who's planning a health service, planning a public health service network, that's the minister. Secondly, he mentions the problem of undue extension of the bed age in hospitals and so on. Again, I would be very concerned if the director of the insurance company were to ask whether the individual patient had been duly hospitalised or not and whether the individual patient should lie for five days instead of ten days. I think it's a matter of profession, of regulating who's the founder of hospitals, it's again someone else's business, not an insurance company. A waiting time. The waiting period depends, of course, on the demand for health services and on the offer, on the number of outpatients and so on. Again, the number of outpatients is a matter of the network, which is decided by the minister. Mr Kavčič, today is not the intervention of the Minister of Health, today is another point. Save it for another time. I would also like to mention the opinion that the insurance company is forcing doctors in primary health care to increase the number of visits. Dearly beloved, I myself became bald in basic health care, in general medicine, and never was an insurance company forcing me to make a number of visits, forcing me to wait. However, the insurance company pays, whether or not you managed to reduce the number of visits. Only to be able to reduce is another problem. Again speaking from you is some ignorance of the problem, a real ignorance of the problem, a ignorance of where, given that you repeat the same words as the Minister of Health, I can say with responsibility that the Minister also does not know the situation in basic health and he taught you wrongly if he taught you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much. A replica? Please, Comrade Kavčič, follow you, Comrade Brenčič. Then I'm not on the list of applicants anymore, so I'm inviting my colleagues and colleagues to the hall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u35	I thank you for the interesting polarization, but in just one point I would like to clarify a little bit when you said about the impact or decision on the day of hospitalisation, on the day of bed. My discussion was not intended to support the thesis that Mr Koshir personally set the days for individual patients; this was not my intention either. I insist, however, that the health insurance company with Mr Kosher is at the head of the one which prescribes the financial algorithms which prescribes the economic basis of the events in hospitals. That's a fact. And to this, these algorithms, these rules of the game are flexible, reasonable, rationalised adaptations by health care providers - and the consequences are here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u36	Replica, mate Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u37	Mr. Kavčič, I repeat to you in the sense that the Health and Health Insurance Act states that funding and funding are determined by three partners, which I have already mentioned, which is a health insurance institution, operators [[in the group of operators, all hospital representatives are]] and the Ministry of Health. Therefore, this is decided by consensus; if there is no consensus, the Minister or the Government shall decide on a proposal from the Minister. And please, if you're talking about these things as a key element of how we're going to decide on this candidacy, I'd assume you're getting a little bit better acquainted before you speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u38	The replicas are exhausted. Comrade Brenčič, you have the floor, but I understand that you will also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First of all, let's do the next one. Mr. Kavčič, I understand that someone had to do this job with you, I'll say, dirty work, that's how I see it. It would be very desirable for one of the doctors who knew the health care and insurance system to do so, then unfortunately you would not be a victim because you fell into it because you went completely over. But this is a short replica, and I wish you all the best if you are sincere in this direction, that in health insurance what you consider to be an object or reason not to approve or give consent to the congregation on a proposal. But something's true. The health insurance or health insurance institution is not the former director of Franz Kosher, but there is an entire team operating on the basis of the standards they have, that is, the legal basis, and the structure of the business of the institution as a public institution as it is. And it was precisely because it was working relatively properly, that it was in a lot of dissatisfaction or criticism from individual doctors to entire institutions. If this continues, I think that this will be the most felt by fellow Merlo, a colleague of Gasparini who comes from these regional hospitals or regional health homes, from the Murska Sobota, and then nothing will help us because we feel so strong this time that we will be in our own image, regardless of the causes, no matter what the consequences, we show as an unwise act. All I know is that health insurance has combined a service system at a level such as that for so long, and that there was no minus, especially the credit, as I said before, sometimes even a stubborn conservative insistence that some of the reserves have only been acquired by the government when we then take measures to evaluate medicines in raising the salaries of doctors and so on completely destroyed in the last two years and now there are no such reserves. Now there will be no more Kosher than I can see. But what will come of interest to DeSUS, as is the case with the pension-disability institution, is that in the Health Insurance Act, if this autonomy of the law as an institution, administrative, financial, programme termination, as planned by the current ministry, we will have to do so - that we will have to introduce an article into the Health and Insurance Act: everything that is minus will be covered by the state budget. Just like he did at the Retirement and Disability Insurance. I would not like to mention my colleague Pohorc in any way, because he was discussing in the title of the parliamentary group, but it was sad to hear that he had been involved in the birth of the law on pension and disability insurance from the very beginning. However, I fear that today's approach will lead to something similar in the health insurance system. Therefore, I certainly expect that there will be so much wisdom in Members and Members of Parliament, colleagues, that they will overcome the fact that it cannot be because it is not ours, because I may not know politically who it belongs to, but it is not where we are, and therefore it cannot be the Director anymore. Regardless of the fact that all the arguments are that the work of the health insurance institution has been large and well done in these ten years, especially in favour of us, the insurance companies and those we expect from this title, as much as the maintenance of adequate health care and services. I no longer have the will to say anything, but I know that such action in the sense of a human resources approach, a human resources clean-up for the Slovenian Parliament is certainly a sad image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u40	Thank you very much. My colleague Kacin first asked for a replica, for you, colleague Kavčič, including colleague Lavrinc. So we have three replicas. Please, in a row. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to object to my respectable colleague Brenčič, and when I say to my colleague, I think that my colleague is in Parliament and is also a colleague because we are both committee presidents. But I find it extremely inappropriate and unacceptable that any Member, especially not the president of the working body, is denouncing who is qualified to discuss what and who is not qualified: who is more qualified and who is less qualified. We were elected Members to this National Assembly, so we have a mandate and therefore we have a part of the debate that speaks about who is doing the dirty work, so that we should discuss here colleagues who are doctors by profession, I simply cannot accept this and I want to object. We are going into dangerous waters because in the next phase we are going to talk about who can take over individual functions in the National Assembly, given the formal level of education, according to the religious definition, by sex and something else. And such divisions, restrictions and positive or negative discrimination against Members are not taking them anywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u42	Thank you very much. My friend Kavečič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u43	Yes, if the criterion of qualification for discussion on the issue that we are discussing today is whether I lost my hair in basic health care work or not, then of course I am not qualified and of course I would not want to compete with such qualifications, but I also think of participating in future debates on various professional issues, from that point of view for which I am a Member and an economist qualified. And I say, my discussion was exclusively about the economic and financial aspect of the functioning of the health system in Slovenia and the processing of certain qualitative professional elements, which we are probably all gathered here to understand well in the form I presented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Let's go in one order. Comrade Lavrinc now has a replica, followed by his colleague Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u45	Yeah, I meant to keep quiet, actually, but my colleague Brenčič convinced me that it would be inappropriate. By the way, look who's talking about personnel cleaning, except for you. Who's threatening that the healthcare system will collapse if we don't confirm Mr Koshir today, except for you? I didn't hear that anywhere else. You're talking about a team, but you're also saying that the current funding system is bad. That there are no built-in economic mechanisms for individual services in different hospitals to cost different costs. That the hospitals were destimulated to act more rationally. You're talking about how they deal with service prices, about the scope of services. I've only been with one little thing once. I think that the month of September, when the contract was finally signed between a health insurance company and between a health care institution, was based on, by law, arbitration. That seems like a solid system to you! So far, there have been no problems. Of course not. Because they got as much as they needed. A level has also been developed to this effect. What about now that the losses have taken place? Let me tell you something: if it does not immediately approach a different way of regulating these matters, problems will be more difficult every year. And from someone who, we had on the parliamentary group, planted flowers, what he has in mind for the next term, and two mandates already sitting there, I will say, I cannot believe in one. Excuse me! I can't believe it. So let me think with my head and not nod just because a congregation thought so. It is also in the system itself: the assembly, the board of directors - the same people there - making decisions, bringing decisions back to the assembly, already there is a mistake. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u46	My friend Rokavec will have a chance to replicate first. I've been warned that I missed the order of the applications. Comrade Rokavec, behind you, Comrade Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you for your word. I'd like to take it back to the defense of my colleague Brenčič. Indeed, the fact is, even the debate itself has shown that the findings that you have mentioned, Mr Kavčič, are absolutely insurmountable. They can't resist, not knowing the situation at all. The main problem, however, is that the Minister of Health did not come with the necessary change of health legislation, which would give guidance and the basis for a gradual change and supplementation of the health system in Slovenia. Here is the key and the problem that needs to be solved here, but in general: because there are some problems, it is necessary to replace the director, who, thanks in particular to this, the health insurance company of Slovenia, due to the fact that the state has not always given what needs to be given to health, has maintained the minimum level of this standard of healthcare for all residents of this country. This is a key problem: when the state or the department did not respond in time to the problems that need to be addressed. That's the key problem. And here we have to start solving and looking for the culprits, and on the contractor who was actually looking for those last reserves by force. And if we walk away, Comrade Lavrinc, change in health overnight, then I think that this approach is very wrong and will probably cost us very dearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u48	Easy. Above all, it would be useful to have peace in the Chamber during the debate. Can I ask all colleagues who exchange views with others not to do so out loud or in the hall? Please, because this is a respectful attitude towards speakers. Now it's their turn: my friend Brenčič first, but I saw a few more hands. My friend Kavečič, I think.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. First, a brief replica of my colleague Kacin. Thank you for your wise advice, but you are not by any chance, Comrade Kacin, the one who will judge what I can do as a Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and what I can do as Chairman of the Committee for this area. If I happen to-- or if this happened to me, he said, "Who should be giving it to you?" I doubt it, but I think I said, "I'd expect it," given that we're meeting the hundredth topic of the Health Committee that we're just there. But still thank you very much for your good directions, I will take them very properly to your knowledge. Comrade Lavrinc, I didn't say the system was bad. However, I know that there is room for solidarity in the current system of functioning of the Health Insurance and Health Care and Insurance Institute, as defined by law. And thank God that we keep him through the institution, and thank God that we may keep him also. You know, in this sense, the principle is that it is very difficult to deal with this area only through economic behaviour. It is entirely different to behave according to the system of society or according to the healthcare system, because it is the State that has to worry about establishing a system that is solidarity with those who cannot provide for their own health as badly as their neighbours. In this case, Mr Lavrinc, I say that the system is good, and it is good, as I see it for these six years, but I know that it must be upgraded and amended, which is also the responsibility of the Ministry of Health as a department. It also has instruments, which are mainly of a legislative nature, and it is the national assembly that will then assess the value of the proposal, whether it is such a proposal or whether it can be improved. And the move is not a health insurance institution, but the move is the Minister of Health with the team, which is - in this case, I am not talking about France Kosher, I am talking about the proposal of the Assembly of the Institute - it works as it is an established and established health care system based on the law, and the law is the one who can change it, in fact, not one person behind the steering of a state institution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u50	My friend Kavečič. Let me say that the president of the Assembly has also asked for the floor, which would give the floor at the end. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u51	I repeat to my respectable colleague Rokavac. You said, Comrade Rokavec, that my statements did not hold up. I'll allow that option. In general, I am accustomed to assuming in my approach to the debate that maybe I am wrong, with the views I am representing, in which I believe, so I also respect different views, different arguments, and if they convince me, I am also ready to change my mind. However, I must point out that I did not get any real, tangible arguments in my discussion pointing out the problems of the health system, except that I should not be discussing this as a non-doctor. Therefore, I am grateful for all the different views, but I would like to point out in this replica that in the replicas of my implementation, I have not observed any real anti- health problems, as I have presented them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? My friend Bernick, I'm sorry. Of course, Dr. Bernick, I give you my word first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u53	Thank you, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. Now that our colleague, Mr Kacin, has given a license to us who don't understand the things that we can say, thank you very much for that, I will make sure that I tell you something. First, someone mentioned that 300 million or whatever was cut here, a lot of money and, of course, it's very attractive during which it's worth to start. I could say this, that there were not enough arguments against Mr Kosher, one, two, three and so on, only the general public, and yet they did not go in to compare where this insurance company has its place and how this place is affected by the government. The second argument was, therefore, if this gentleman already sat for two terms and why not replace him. Yes, thank God that there is one person who is not in the politics of two mandates and hopes to put on the sidelines of one minister, which is a very rare thing that we see, only a rare thing that we see in our public. As for some other people who sit in places after years and years and years - I don't know, we tolerate this without any problem. But it is this that I respect Mr Koschi, even though I only know him from afar, but I respect him so much that he hoped to stand up whenever he thought he was right, he hoped to stand up. Of course, now we see the consequences here, and I don't think there's anything but one revenge on the man who stood up to the minister. I don't think it's healthy for our society, it's not healthy for our congregation here, and if we go this way forward, we'll rarely find any people who will be quality and who hope to perform their function, just as he thinks he has to. No one said anything about Mr Koshir being replaced, but who would come. I'm sure there'll be a man who likes the coalition or at least part of the coalition. But we will not know if this man is capable of doing anything else that would really improve our health scene. Finally, let us not forget that the lobbyists here are our pharmaceutical industry, who certainly have not forgotten that Mr Koshir may have stepped on their fingers, and thus the minister and those lobbyists are certainly behind this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the president of the Assembly, does anyone else want a word? No, Madam President, you have the floor, please. Can you press the microphone key? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u55	In just a few words, I would like to try to answer some of your thoughts or suggestions at today’s session. With regard to the reduction of insured persons, we are aware that the amendments to the law that we later actually discussed at the Assembly itself have been adopted, and such changes as have been adopted in fact, the Assembly has also adopted entirely negatively, as the representatives of DeSUS have actually explained today. A proposal for an amendment has been submitted. Nor did the Institute propose such an amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act itself. Here I would like to point out that there have been many things going on in the congregation during this time. I cannot accept this claim that we are building on people's shoulders, especially because this programme, which has now been adopted, itself bears the title of the Solidarity and Change Tradition by the extent of the insured. In the congregation, we are working hard to make this, in fact, the main objective of health insurance in the future - just solidarity. Two words could be given the losses that occurred in health insurance. The business report details why the losses were incurred. In order to make losses, the Institute warned already in 1999, when it indicated what would bring about changes in salary increases themselves, what would result in an increase in VAT and, finally, the prices of medicines themselves. These three matters are crucial to why the loss has also occurred. In fact, since our appointment to our congregation, there have been many discussions about reducing income expenditure. Thus, at the last meeting, the Assembly has already taken certain measures to reduce this difference and these measures relate to long-term plans and short-term ones. Some measures will apply already this year - logically - for a longer period of time, and if this assembly will also support certain positions adopted by our assembly or proposals to reduce these measures in the future when it receives our materials for consideration, this health insurance institution or the financial part will also be able to operate without loss. In the funding system, I would like to reiterate what some debaters have already stressed very much, this is a partnership. We have always been very proud of the fact that in this arrangement for financing health insurance is actually a partnership. There is certainly no always consensus or coordination between partners. As a result, the contracts were concluded very late, as you mentioned. However, once again, the system of this negotiation, the partnership agreement, where only one of the partners is a company, is very important in this funding system. However, the institution is not in the position that changes are not necessary. It is right to agree on the amendments and if the arguments are to be adopted - logically. I may not be delaying today's session. I guarantee you there's no politics at the office. Politics has not penetrated the work of the institution itself, but it is a high level of expertise - and I believe that the institution is also successful among workers who are employed in the institution and between the close members of the Director-General and when this expertise is ensured. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam President of the Assembly. Does anyone else want a word, or I will close the debate and get to the vote. Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. For the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the decision we are facing is not only the appointment or not the appointment of the Director of the Health Insurance Institute, but this decision is a denial of the decision of the Assembly of the Institute. And we are sure that it is not only one person here, but it is a question of how the healthcare and insurance system will continue. The way we feel about it today, it's not good. That is why we need to think clearly about our decision before making this decision and require two hours off.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u58	Look, I'm asking for some peace in the hall. Now, if the Slovenian People's Party's Group insists on this, then two hours means that today the National Assembly does not have to decide unless otherwise decided. It may also be said that we decide on this tomorrow at 10 a.m. and continue with other agenda items. I would like to speak frankly about this, especially because there is still a lot of work to be done by the National Assembly, and I hope that you do not resent this honesty. Please, my friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you for your word. Once again, Mr President, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 72, I request a two-hour recess.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u60	Can we make a decision today, or do you insist that we conclude at six o’clock?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u61	I said: we want a break because the content of what we decide is too important for us to go forward without consulting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-23-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u62	Then I must say that if we continue today at 6.30 p.m., we would probably not be taking any other decisions other than this. Then I would suggest that we proceed tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the vote. But I'd like to warn you that we have a lot of work to do. Of course, there is a need to respect the rules of procedure and all the rights in it, but it is also our duty to do as many things as possible. By 10 a.m. tomorrow, I'm putting an end to the work of the National Assembly. Once again, the debate is closed; tomorrow at 10 a.m. we will decide.
