ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u1	I invite everyone who is in the lobby of the great hall to come to her so that we can begin the 13th session of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! I want a good day and a good day together. I begin the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'll be grateful for a little more peace in the hall. I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues are not in a position to attend for justified reasons. These are colleagues of Weber, Delak, Fabjan, Kacin, Jakič, Lavrinc, Merlo, Školč, colleague of Spindler for the beginning of the session, colleague of Terčon, colleague of Orazem Zalokar, colleague of Gasparini, colleague of Peterle, Jerovšek, Kontič for the whole day and colleague of Roberto Battelli between 2.30 and 16.00. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'll determine the presence. Please! Please enable the presence of the room by pressing the "quorum" key. We're picking up a presence at the hall. 49 Members and Members are present, so the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. They were invited to this meeting: Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, Minister and Ministers of his Government. I'd like to say hello to everyone who's here. We are moving on to the agenda. Before that, I ask whether anyone wants a change, a supplement, has any other comment on the minutes of the 11th meeting and the 12th and 13th extraordinary meetings of the National Assembly. I guess not. Since there are no comments to the minutes of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. Please vote on the adoption of the minutes of the 11th meeting. I will ask once again for peace in the hall; if there is no peace, then there is no attention, and then there is unconscionableness. Please, colleagues and colleagues, I will once again insist that the National Assembly calms down so that we can make a normal decision. We are moving on to a decision on the minutes of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly. We're voting. 54 present, 44 in, one in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the minutes of the 11th meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. In the absence of any comments to the minutes of the 12th extraordinary meeting, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. Please vote. We vote on the adoption of the minutes of the 12th extraordinary session. 53 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the minutes of the 12th extraordinary meeting have been adopted. As there were no comments to the minutes of the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of this Minutes. We're voting. There were 50, 43 who supported the proposal, and one opposed it. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the minutes of the 13th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the agenda of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda with reference to 12 February this year. We'll decide the withdrawals first. I didn't get a motion to withdraw. I find that no one wants a word on the withdrawal proposals. We are moving on to proposals to expand the agenda. The Internal Policy Committee proposes to the Assembly to extend the agenda of this meeting by continuing the procedure under Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and the establishment of their areas. Does the chairman or representative of the board want a word? I guess not. Would you like a representative of the government? [[Neither do I.]] He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Yes, please, Comrade Sok, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u2	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! On behalf of our Group of Members, I object to the inclusion of this item on the agenda of this meeting. This is because Members and Members did not have enough time to study the material for this item on the agenda. They will also be tabled, I think a number of amendments to this law, and I think that the mother labour body should be defined for these amendments. So we suggest that this item should not go to the agenda of this session. However, it is possible, of course, that an extraordinary parliamentary meeting is convened at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u3	We now see whether the National Assembly will adopt a proposal to extend the agenda. It is now up to us to discuss other issues after a decision to extend. Anyone else would like a word on the proposal to extend the agenda with this item on the agenda? Any of the other MPs? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by continuing the procedure under Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on the procedure for setting up municipalities and determining their areas. We're voting. Please give your opinion on the proposal. 59 present, 41 for, 14 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal for an extension of the agenda has been adopted and I propose that the assembly treat the matter as item 1a of the agenda. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the proposal for a fast-track law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Insurance Act. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. We are in the middle of a vote on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. 60 in attendance, 45 in, 7 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Finance. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Until the proposal for the adoption of a proposal for a fast-track procedure, the work of the mother body was not defined. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 58 present, 37 to, 11 to. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on inland navigation. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does his president or representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? They want to? Comrade Ambassador on behalf of the Group of the Social Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In this national assembly, we have already adopted many laws following a rapid procedure, which we have then changed in the same swift procedure. I would not now go to mention what these are, we all know that we have received many of them, and we do not want anything like this to happen to this law in our group. We already had one law in the National Assembly following a rapid procedure that dealt with this issue, and then this law was withdrawn and a new law was submitted. We believe that this is such a sensitive area, so wide, that it concerns virtually all the municipalities that have water in their territories that this should be accepted in accordance with the normal procedure. Therefore, our Group of Members opposes the swift procedure and we propose that it enters into a regular procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Does any other group of Members wish to make their views known? [[He does.]] Comrade Pohorec, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u6	I join the already expressed opinion that this law should be dealt with on a regular basis. At the last meeting of the home committee, the Infrastructure Committee, several issues were raised, which are not covered by the law at all, exist. The adoption of the law by rapid procedure may even trigger matters disputed for neighbouring countries, particularly as regards navigation at the border of our Slovenian rivers. I suggest we really take the time to deal with it on a regular basis, harmonise all those things that are still missing so that it will be a good law. As it is, it will raise certain issues that are controversial for neighbouring countries. This is my opinion, and I propose that it goes into regular procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u7	Does one of the members of the group wish to present their views on the proposal to adopt a fast-track law? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal that the law, i.e. the proposal for a law on inland navigation, should be adopted in a rapid manner. We're voting. Please, if you are voting on the proposal to adopt the law quickly. 59 present, 34 for, 25 versus. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law on measures to remedy the consequences, to prevent the spread and establishment of larger-scale terrestrial beaches. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Until the proposal for the adoption of the law by rapid procedure, the parent labour body was not identified. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I'm guessing no one wants a word. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 57 present, 43 to, 6 to. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the proposal to adopt legislation in the short term. A group of Members with a first-signed colleague Dusan Vukko submitted a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the promotion of tourism for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does Comrade Wolf want a word as a proponent? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body agrees with the proposal. Does the president or representative want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants the word "secretariat"? [[Neither do I.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask, do they wish to present the views of representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt a short-term law. Colleagues and colleagues, this proposal will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. 59 present. 44 for, 14 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. A group of Members with a first-signed colleague Maximilian Lavrinci submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Road Safety Act for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Anyone want a word on behalf of the proposer? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body agrees with the proposal. Does he want a word with the president or a representative? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? [[Neither do I.]] A representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I don't see any desire for that. I conclude the debate, and in this case I also point out that the proposal for a law to deal with the law after the shortening of the procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. Please, if Members and Members vote on the proposal for a reduced procedure. 59 present. 51 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Please continue for your attention. At the conclusion of the 14th extraordinary meeting, the National Assembly decided that the unfinished items should be transferred to the 13th meeting of the Assembly. In particular, the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 1998, the proposal for the final accounts of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 1999, the proposal for a national programme of higher education of the Republic of Slovenia, the proposal for amendments and additions to the maritime code, the proposal for a law restricting advertising of alcoholic beverages, the proposal for a law supplementing the law on acquisitions and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the prevention of restriction of competition. The proposed items for the elections and appointments in the framework of the 14th extraordinary meeting will be held within the framework of the 19th item and all the above mentioned for point 1.a. Thus, that is all we had to do before the final vote on the agenda. I propose that the Council of State decide on the agenda. I shall put the proposed agenda to the vote in full. We're voting. 58 colleagues and colleagues present. 45 for, 9 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the Council of State adopted the agenda of the 13th session. In accordance with the agreement that we have concluded Friday with the leader and the leader of the parliamentary groups, we will start at exactly 3:30 a.m. with questions and initiatives by Members and Members. Until then, I'm adjourning the session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u8	Dear colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! Please take your seats in the grand debate room of the National Assembly. I would like to welcome everyone present in the Chamber, Prime Minister Drnovska, Minister and Ministers. Before we move on to the 1st item of the agenda, questions and initiatives of Members and Members, we will find presence in the Chamber. Colleagues and colleagues, please report presence in the hall by pressing the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. There are 54 colleagues and colleagues present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. Allow me first to inform you that, due to the other obligations of today's agenda item, the four ministers cannot participate and will be replaced, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, by state secretaries: instead of mags. Mr Anton Ropa, Minister of Finance, Mrs Helena Kamnar, Mr Igor Kušar, Mr Darko Končan and Mr Darko Tolar; instead of Mr Andreja Richter, Minister of Culture, will answer questions from Members and Members of Parliament, Mr BozidarZorko; Mr Anton Shajna will answer instead of Mr Dušana Kebra, Minister of State for Health. Simon the High. All the other ministers and ministers are with us and I welcome them once again. We're moving on to one. POINTS, QUESTIONS AND CONTRACTS. I would like to inform you that on Friday, at an informal meeting of the Heads of State and the leaders of all the parliamentary groups, we have agreed that this item will be fully implemented today. We'll start it at 3:30, and we'll end it today. Under Rule 26 of the Rules of Procedure, a Member or a Member may ask only one oral question or initiative within three minutes; of course, he may ask a supplementary question, but within the context of the question raised. On the basis of the second paragraph, the Minister or Minister must reply to this meeting, at the same meeting, if he cannot do so, he must explain it immediately, and in such a case he must answer the questions in writing no later than three days before the first meeting. Colleagues and colleagues or leaders of the parliamentary groups have repeatedly pointed out at this meeting on Friday that ministers are responding longer than the scheduled ten minutes in the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, allow me to inform the ministers and ministers that we invite them that their replies will not last more than ten minutes, if possible, even for no more than seven minutes. Finally, we will implement time limits in a very consistent manner and that if someone does not finish his thoughts in due time after the time spent for his performance, we will also take away his word. Well, let's hope that's not necessary. We are moving on to the first three questions of MEPs and members of opposition groups who will raise the question to Prime Minister Janez Drnovšk. The first question will be raised by colleague Igor Štemberger of the SMS Group. You have the floor, Comrade Štemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you for your word. A warm welcome to all, to the distinguished Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, as well as to the other representatives of the government, to fellow Members and colleagues! Much has already been said, but not a word in this Chamber about the so-called oil war with neighbouring Croatia. This oil war, launched a month ago by the neighbouring country, caused much resentment and disappointment among Slovenian citizens. They are disappointed mainly by the response, or rather by the failure of the Slovenian governments to respond to Croatian measures. The measures taken by the Government of neighbouring countries, which restrict the transport of petroleum derivatives and other dangerous substances on the roads of a neighbouring country, are nothing more than an unfortunate attempt to protect their own national interests. How the sovereign state must react in such a situation is a clear example of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The answer must be swift and effective. And how did we react? We threatened to "screw" them before a world trade organisation, and yet we did not hope to do it in time, because if we had done it in time, then the World Trade Organisation would have been discussing this issue in February and not until March. It's been a month, but there's no answer yet. Of course, these applications to international institutions and compensation claims are necessary and important, but this is not a quick response. Our economy, both our oil companies and the chemical industry, and especially the carriers of oil derivatives and other dangerous substances, are suffering enormous economic damage at that time. Some estimate it to some 10 million euros. If these people were waiting for our government's response, Bimarsics among them could have closed the doors of their company a long time ago. It has been said that measures are being prepared at individual ministries, but we have been waiting for these measures for four weeks. Last month, national interest was one of the central themes of professional and political debates in our country. I believe that this matter has shown us what a national interest is, and the agreements signed do not limit Slovenia to the protection and compliance of the rules it has adopted. A little stricter implementation of customs rules would certainly help our country, even before professional meetings. The fact is that Croatian transits across Slovenia are several times more than Slovenians across Croatia and that 90 per cent of Croatian exports across Slovenian territory go mainly with trucks that do not meet all environmental and safety standards. I express a great deal of criticism to the complete Slovenian government, which at key moments did not know or was unable to react properly. I'm asking: What has been done, or what else do you intend to do about the so - called issue of oil warfare? Are you even aware of the possible impact of the lactating response of Slovenia? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u10	I'll be forced to take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u11	Even negotiations, say with the European Union? [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u13	Dear Member, honourable Members and Members of Parliament and Mr President! The so-called 'oil war' with Croatia has indeed been going on for some time; fortunately it is not a real war, but it is one of the cases of unilateral implementation of measures in one country, in this case Croatia, which caused damage in another country, in this case in Slovenia, as well as in another neighbour of Croatia. The Slovenian Government reacted in a variety of ways, in bilateral communication with Croatia, with an appropriate note, with other communications and through multilateral institutions, with the World Trade Organisation, with the parties to the Energy Charter in Brussels, with the UN Economic Commission for Europe in Geneva. We estimate that the World Trade Organisation procedure is of course very serious and should not be underestimated, nor should other procedures. In fact, this raises the question of whether that's enough. We hear qualifications if the Slovenian government has not responded adequately, that we should do nothing and protect our carriers. So the question is, what do you do? On the basis of experience over the centuries and decades, the international community has established a dispute resolution mechanism that is such that it does not lead to further exacerbation and ultimately to war as has been the case in the past. These mechanisms are very serious. The World Trade Organisation has such mechanisms, in particular in this case, and if the State initiates proceedings in these countries - and Slovenia is a Member State - Croatia is also a Member State - then procedures are lost and appropriate sanctions, appropriate decision, assessment of that institution, whether it is a infringer or not, and then also assessments and reparations. The Slovenian Government has discussed this several times very seriously and also the possibility of other bilateral measures. However, with other possible measures, in short, with some unilateral measures on our part, which would be a retaliatory measure to Croatia, we have come to ourselves in this case to become violators of international instruments and international treaties, and in this case, proceedings will be initiated against us as a result of such a violation, and the result will ultimately be worse than if Slovenia works under international rules. In this case, the question therefore arises whether to work under international rules, the rules of those organisations whose members we are, where we have adopted the rules of the game, or to work outside these rules and then to go on some classic war, sharpening, retaliatory measures, then retaliatory measures on the other hand, and then we have to take something back and so on. It is precisely because in such cases history is full of additional exacerbations, escalations of measures, which is why international mechanisms are introduced and adopted. The international mechanisms, in particular, I repeat, are the mechanism of the World Trade Organisation. And that's it. This is the framework we're talking about. Therefore, those who want us to take other measures call for us to step down or break international rules and decide on different measures, where we will then be subject to international sanctions. Well, I estimate that the measure of the Croatian government is inappropriate, inconsistent. It is particularly bad that it was introduced unilaterally, suddenly, even without notice, without consultation with neighbouring countries and thus caused direct damage to Croatia. This will certainly be, is and will be poorly assessed in the international community and there is no evidence or expression of maturity, in this case the Croatian State, including its maturity for inclusion in the international institutions. I am sure that in this case there is also some Croatian tradition, but their country's tradition will gain some experience that will probably have to be taken into account in the future and avoid such acts if a member, an equal member of the international community, who adheres to the rules of the international community, wants to be taken into account. Well, Slovenia certainly is and wants to continue. However, we have done a lot, so that any indication that the Slovenian government has not reacted is completely inadequate. There have been many, I say, direct interventions with the Croatian side and all interventions, all possible interventions with international mechanisms, i.e. with international institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Do you want to ask an additional question? You have two minutes. Please. My friend Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u15	Look, I want to know who's gonna pay for the damage, who's gonna pay, who's gonna pay for those huge amounts that our economy is suffering. Is it really realistic to expect Croatia, at least in part, to reimburse these costs? Will Slovenian taxpayers have to pay this again through public debt, as has many times in the past, when we are now paying for past mistakes and misdeeds?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Would you like to respond further, Mr. Prime Minister? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u17	Such things are happening in the international community and our government has no influence on them. Thus, such a measure has been taken by the Croatian Government, and this is in our view a higher force, such as force majeure, also a number of other things, causing costs. We have initiated appropriate procedures to neutralise these consequences. And we will see, for us too, this experience, this international conflict, all the procedures we have set in motion, so we will see how successful these sanctions will be and how effective these sanctions will be and how much compensation will be. However, we are also continuing in the midst of bilateral talks, interventions to the Croatian side in an effort to resolve this issue as quickly as possible and to minimise and neutralize damage. However, it is completely pointless to ask the Slovenian government, of course, what the Slovenian government has done because the Croatian government has introduced an inadequate, incomprehensible measure which is contrary to the rules of the international community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Your next question will be asked by colleague Majda Zupan. You have a word and three minutes of time available.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, distinguished ministers, ministers, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Last April, the National Assembly adopted, in accordance with the law, a decision to initiate the procedure for setting up municipalities and setting up their areas. Fifty proposals for the establishment of new municipalities were submitted in due time and in good time, following the adoption by the National Assembly of November of a decision on the continuation of the procedure. After the councils of citizens and the opinions of the municipal councils of the home municipalities were convened, the government addressed all these proposals and forwarded its opinion and a proposal to the National Assembly last week, which states that it does not in any event support the establishment of new congregations. It also states in all opinions that the proposed municipality does not comply with the requirement on the number of people and that there are no reasons to derogate from this condition. In the past, the government and legislator have taken such exceptions into account, since from 192 municipalities, there are 95 such ones with fewer than five thousand inhabitants. At that time, however, the laws relating to this matter, the Law on the Establishment of Communities, the Law on Local Self - Administration, the Law on the Financing of Communities, had not changed in any way. Otherwise, comparison with other European countries shows that our country, by the proportion of municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants, is at the bottom of the scale. For example, Austria has as many as 91% of municipalities with up to five thousand inhabitants, the Czech Republic has 95%, Croatia 81, France 95, Germany 84 and Slovenia only 49. Dear Prime Minister, I ask you to explain the criteria that led you, for example, that in 1994 and 1998 you also proposed the establishment of municipalities with less than 5,000 inhabitants. Now you have rejected fifty proposals in the package. As Prime Minister, you are expected to be treated equally in a country that is supposed to be legal. The affected citizens are revolutionised because they consider such a proposal unacceptable, for the first time, because it is impossible for the 50 proposals not to make exceptions based on geographical, historical, border or economic reasons; and secondly, such a government denies a certain number of inhabitants - 150 000 we believe - to the full extent of ensuring the fundamental right to local self-government, as stipulated in Article 9 of the Constitution and the European Authority of Local Self-Government, which our country has also signed, and thus creates secondary citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u20	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u21	Let me ask you another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u22	I can't let you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u23	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you very much. If it is in the same sense, you can ask a supplementary question. Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u25	Your Honor. The government has sent a proposal to the National Assembly, a proposal prepared on the basis of professional criteria, prepared by experts. And the National Assembly will decide at the final stage on the establishment of new municipalities. On the basis of the criteria, the government has made such a proposal as it has made, and the procedure continues in the National Assembly and there will also be an opportunity to discuss this and for a final decision. In the past, the government has also respected the legal criteria. In individual cases, there was then a decision, i.e. an assessment of whether or not there were exceptions, as well as final decisions in the national assembly. However, quite a number of municipalities have been established in Slovenia, at least in the opinion of many, if not too many. This process, of course, is continuing and, as I have already said, you will have the opportunity to complete it in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u26	If this is a question of the same subject, you can ask a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u27	Thank you very much. If you allow an additional question: How do you, as Prime Minister responsible for the development of Slovenia, see the fact that it means having your municipality in this country the only way to ensure development or at least within a reasonable time to ensure an appropriate local standard, since the law on coherent regional development does not produce results as expected? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u28	Thank you, Comrade Zupanov. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like to answer the supplementary question? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u29	Just for a little while. Well, I certainly do not think that this is the only way to promote appropriate regional development, that there are a number of other mechanisms, that we are developing regional policy in Slovenia, as you know, and that we are also developing instruments, that we are increasing resources for this purpose, so that I do not share the belief that the establishment of the municipality is the only way that certain citizens can then exercise their rights at local and regional level. If that were true, then we would probably go into establishing an infinite number of municipalities, but I doubt that would solve all these problems, I think it would increase them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the last question to the Prime Minister will be raised by his colleague Zmaj Jelinčič. You have the floor, Comrade Jelinčič, three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u31	Thank you very much. I will ask a question about the construction of the motorway and will start with the activities of the Society for Motorways of the Republic of Slovenia or Darsa, d.d., which are according to the law of financial engineering, preparation, organisation and management of the construction and maintenance of the network of motorways and the management of motorways in Slovenia. Just in the field of financial engineering, Dars didn't do anything. The Darsa administration is now explaining that it will form a real shareholding company to recapitalise it to own it. The president of the administration, Bozič, publicly announces that Dars is only doing what the government or the ministry orders him to do. And according to these statements, Darsa's huge organisation is completely out of line, because the contractor is part of the State Company for Roads and the Ministry only needs a small agency to do what the law imposes on it. With every scandal, Dars points to the DDC, which was shown by the so-called disk replacement, which shows that it was a falsified case, as well as the complications in the Trojans, it appears that Dars pushed everything into the DDC framework. At the end of the term of office of the previous president, Mr Brodnik, Dars had fewer than 40 employees, now having more than 70 employees after three years, almost 100% more. With such a team, Dars has very much space, maintaining the entire empty building in Celje, while also renting a building in the centre of Ljubljana, while in Ljubljana he has moved several times and has irregularly adapted the premises in which he was only temporary. The Darsa administration also hides the costs for the premises and only provides information that renting a square meter is around 3,700 SIT, but does not say how many square meters it rents, and if we look at the rental of the IMP building, besides the Del tower, it means that this monthly rent is at least three million dollars and the building in Celje is lonely. The excuses that the Darsovs in Ljubljana should not be abstinence, as only a member of the Dars administration could go to the Ministry and the whole of the Parliament, but not that at least three donors answer each question because they do not know the problem. The mobility of transport from Celje to Ljubljana is also not questionable, as in Dars 27 people with an individual contract, which includes a car for personal use in addition to the GSM. This is said to be a holiday with cars, but they cannot come from Celje to Ljubljana. Regarding the fact that Dars and the issue of the construction of the highway network in Slovenia are the most closely connected, I ask: Does the government intend to review and limit Darsa's non-functional work and thus enable serious implementation of the motorway programme? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr Member in your question is, of course, a series of specific opinions and then, of course, questions that I think are more appropriate to be answered by the relevant ministry, the ministry of transport. I myself would comment on this so much that the whole organisation of this activity is, of course, established and we can have different opinions on whether it is effective or ineffective. Of course, we all want it to be more effective and try to exert such pressure. In this sense, of course, such questions are also quite appropriate. It is obvious, however, that it will be necessary to accelerate the pace of the construction of motorways, or to hold on to approximately those targets and timeframes, in order to need, of course, the organisation and efficiency of the operation, both the ministries and Darsa, as well as other parallel services, to tighten strongly and exert appropriate pressure. There are, of course, limited resources for this purpose, but we are directing those resources that are at our disposal, while the other is, of course, the most effective operation and the activity of all actors. As far as the funds are concerned, the government has already established, or jointly, that Darsa and I have also found that it will probably be necessary to increase funds if we want to maintain the expected pace, by seeking to attract private funds in addition to public funds, and by the appropriate forms they know abroad, there may be additional ways to finance and to speed up construction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u34	Thank you very much. My friend Jelinčič wants to ask a further question. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u35	Mr President, I would also like to ask you: How is it possible that only high education and experience are required in the invitation for members of the Dars administration, which was published in the daily newspaper over half of the world? No work programme had to be presented and no foreign language needed to be known. This means that at least 50,000 Slovenians could sign up for this invitation or that the invitation was made for specific people. And very interesting requirements that remind us of the times of the former country, when it was only necessary to have political connections, not knowledge. I would ask: Was it perhaps the former LDS member, Mr Zimsch, who became a third member of the Dars administration? The fact is, Dars can't organize and he's making a lot of mistakes. It is also a fact that it says that there is not enough funding to build, but they have not yet spent the quotas for the last year. The Darsovs do not go into the field or see or solve problems. The Dolenians found that the toll stations were wrongly set up and that there was still a lot of traffic regulations wrong, and yet nothing is done in this area. Two years was a public debate on toll systems in the National Assembly and in two years Dars did nothing but hide behind some sort of expertise and nothing else. However, as I am sure that this reply, which the President has already given so far and which he will probably also say at the end, will not be exact, that it will be incomplete, inaccurate and rather general, I request that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party Member Group, a debate be held in the National Assembly on the government's response to the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u36	Just a minute, mate Jelinčič. You therefore propose to implement the second paragraph of Rule 29 of the Rules of Procedure. This means that we will now move to a debate on the government's response to the question put by the Prime Minister. First, I ask the Prime Minister whether he wants to give an answer to the additional question before that. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u37	Just two words. The invitation to tender referred to by Mr Jelinčič is governed by the statute. Darsa's board was rationalized, reduced. I think from five members to three, the current three members. This was a government decision a while ago. However, as regards other issues, I propose that Mr Shaina, State Secretary at the Ministry of Transport, who replaces the Minister this week, answer the debate on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u38	Okay. We will give the floor first to the applicant, this is colleague Jelinčič, who will have a maximum of 15 minutes at his disposal for positions, then to the representative of the government, in this case, according to the proposal of the Prime Minister, Mr Shini, the Secretary of State, and then to the representatives of the groups of Members. First of all, Comrade Victory Jelinčič, 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. First a brief tour, please, if he can start running there. Thank you very much. When Demos took the lead, Mr Kranjc, Minister of Transport and Communications, and Mr Peterle as Prime Minister, determined that the gas toll would be 10 tolls per litre. And it's all drowned in the integrated budget. In time, Dars took over systemic funding and everything went through an integrated budget, thus, of course, the gas toll went up to 16% of the price for a litre of petrol. The first programme was totally unrealistic and was about misleading Parliament, both at the price and by the deadlines, as it was supposed to be completed by 1999. Prices were unrealistic, as there was a growing demand for services, the demands of local communities arose and it was always about buying locals before the elections, and this was done by every government and almost every political party. It was about requirements for water regulation, land change, anti-group fences, various connections, road connections, where we can compare the immodest requirements that have been growing compared to the eastern railing in Ljubljana and the western railing in Ljubljana. At the outset, it was said that Slovenia can build up to two million people, without burdening the budget negatively, only 20 to 25 kilometres of highway per year; so many construction workers or construction workers have so many designers. Dars was deceiving everything when he said that it was possible to build 50 kilometers of highways per year, and nothing was happening, there was no land-purchasing, and prices were rising. Therefore, they later quietly raised the percentage of the petrol tolar to 20% of the price for a litre of petrol. Today there is talk again about concessions, about private capital, and each other, private capital and concessionaire, only demand profit, otherwise they will not go into business. And on whose account? On us, the Slovenes. That this was pointless and bad, but they knew, in spite of everything, in the old, in the Yugoslav Paradise, they had already said, neither concession nor private capital could enter. Because if someone gets a concession, on the one hand is the concessionaire, on the other hand are the own resources of the Republic of Slovenia, the concessionaire will want to have a profit. Profit can only be obtained in such a way as to take away part or a large part of the own resources that the State will invest. It is said that the concessionaire will also get money from the country, while the Slovenian structure or Slovenian budget from day to day will be more and more burdensome. This is said to be the profit of concessionaires from Slovenian budgetary resources. It is also said that 2010 will be the end of construction, which is completely impossible and pointless. For there is a need to build further, which means additional spending of funds and loans should also be repaid from 1995 onwards, which means that we will still be burdened. At the same time, there are increasing or increasing requirements for the revision of the programme, so that we also have a number of political requirements where Croatia and the Germans are standing behind and blackmailing. The requirement to build the direction Maribor-Ptuj-Gruškovje - this is the Pirska highway - Croatia require the road Postojna-Rijek, require the road Rijeka-Trst, in 2010 the construction of a six-pass railway around Ljubljana, the construction of new connections to motorways, highway networks, regional roads and so on. This is a comprehensive solution for financing the construction of a road programme in Slovenia. The government doesn't have that. The government is hiding behind partial solutions and all it does is translate from cup to cup and blur the eyes of the Slovenian taxpayer by bringing us concessionaires here I don't know what profits. Here, too, it must be borne in mind that it will be necessary to build a second track in Koper, which will not be cheap, and the government here too has no solution, despite the fact that it is a strategic matter that the country should have settled long ago. But after a long and long time, nothing was controlled, and it's no wonder that what's happening is happening. There is forgiveness of workers, not only in the highway program, but in general in the construction community. As a result, this means that the sponsorship of Slovenian cultural and sports events and the society has ceased, the SCT has stopped sponsoring football, they have withdrawn from hockey, from basketball, Primorje will now stop sponsoring, CMC Celje will soon stop sponsoring and I have not heard that this famous Grassetto, which the government has brought to Slovenia, will no matter how and ever sponsor anyone in Slovenia. Grassetto has committed to tendering conditions to have its own capacity at least 50 per cent, and works with some Slovenians, some of whom have already thrown the Trubwell RGD out, and with foreigners, for example Slovaks, and therefore in the Slovenian National Party we require a precise explanation and report on compliance with all the requirements of the tender documentation, compliance with the required deadlines, deadlines, promotion of works, quality of works carried out - there are known work accidents at Grassett, which are well hidden - payments to subcontractors and acquisitions of materials separately for Slovenian and foreign users, as there are "dumping" interventions and "dumping" responses in this area. We also ask how the government will respond to one of Grassett's latest offers, which has not been met or empty papers delivered. On Tuesday, 5 February this year, at 9 a.m., offers were opened for smaller facilities and for viaduct Exvije on the Klanec-Ankaran route, and when the offer was opened, there were empty, unfulfilled leaves. That is why we have already asked the question of the Member of Parliament in this regard, and there has not been an answer yet. But I want to know if Grassetto feels so strong that he can afford that. Grassetto doesn't even worry, because it was said that if Grassetto is eliminated, there is already a prepared company Astals s.p.a. where the Italians are also behind, already waiting for the Slovenian Janist. We must be aware that the Italians have from their own country - that is to say from the Italian country - 20 per cent of state subsidies for road construction in Slovenia and therefore can "dumping" prices, which in my opinion is by no means in my opinion, and in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, is by no means in accordance with European standards, but this is probably in line with certain, sufficiently low-level purposes, including Slovenian policies and ultimately governments. On the other hand, we have Dars, DDC, DRSC and the Ministry of Transport, where at least 700 people sit together and no one thinks that these people would do anything except bright exceptions, of course, and they cut themselves a nice piece of bread. I am also interested in what the government will do with Mr Vesel of the Republic Audit Commission, which found that the SCT had replaced the diskette in the Podmilj tunnel offer, and then even condemned the Slovenian company by excluding it from the next procedure. I would like to know who was behind this decision, who, as a government official, allowed or even ordered such action. We therefore propose two decisions in the Slovenian National Party to set up a special financial control group to monitor the functioning of the above-mentioned national institutions and to control them - in future, in advance. On the other hand, the Slovenian National Party proposes to carry out a full audit of Dars, DDC and DRSC, not through an incompetent Court of Auditors without competence, but by the State Prosecutor's Office, and to sanction fraud and the perpetrators in general. Now, I'd like to say a few words to my colleague Sasha Pecchet. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u40	Please. There's less than five minutes left.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u41	Thank you for your word, Victory. Allow me to, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u42	The proposer shall have 15 minutes at his disposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u43	Let me start where the speaker spoke before me about the consequences of foreign performers on Slovenian roads. When we talk about construction, namely construction in the area of roads, we must not forget that in this case it is one of those labour intensive industries where it should not normally play a role, but what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recently pointed out is that Slovenian workers are worse workers than foreign workers. And what we witnessed a few days ago on the Committee on the Economy, where the Minister of Economy even said that it was a national interest, if we let a stranger into our small country to pick us up and then it manages our property, because he would probably only know and use the term that was so painful for the ears, because foreigners just have so-called "know how". Even worse were the views of your national couples or, as it were, government institutions, like the Slovenian Chamber of Economics, which offer even tax reliefs for the entry of foreigners, for their work on Slovenian territory or any other form of production or services to be provided. Allow me to continue to take advantage of Mr Drnovška's speech, which has recently addressed the Slovenian public or the general Slovenian public with the word clientelism, in connection with the proposed Victory Jelinčič proposal. You know, you used to say that the Darsa Assembly has important decisions in its hands, of course, because it is a share company and under the company law it belongs to it. However, we must not forget, Mr Drnovšek, that you are the President of the Darsa Assembly, and this seems to us, at least in the Slovenian national party at this point, under these conditions, which Dars is operating, that is to say, from an increase in the percentage of the gas toll, to an annual increase in road construction, thus an extension of the deadline, unacceptable. It is unacceptable that you are the man who, on the one hand, leads the government of the Republic of Slovenia, organises the work of the ministry, which includes transport and communications, and, on the other hand, take on the so-called most powerful function within Darsa. We only place our hearts on you to resign from this place, leave this job to those who will be able to perform it properly. Correction will be shown when this country will not suffer from highways. When this country does not extend the deadline for the construction of motorways every five years. And when the highways are finally developed as planned in this country. And yet, the victory is, Mr Victory Jelinčič spoke a little while ago about the way in which the highways should be built. Of course, it is possible to grant services, public economic services, directors and the question of which is appropriate. In the Slovenian National Party, while we claim that of these forms under the company law, it is still the most appropriate concessional activity, but with the provision that the concessionaire in this case can only be a domestic contractor. With such a solution, if, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia accepted it, we could guarantee national interest, and that national interest in the sense that this country would go better and not to foreign investors, such as the position of the Committee on the Economy. Of course, we also understand the subcontractors of the basic stages under the contractors. This would be the position of the Slovenian national party, which, once again, I would like to point out to you that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also accepts it and will finally do something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Would you like some more? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Since I think this debate will go largely blank today, we ask the Slovenian National Party first to adopt these decisions and then to have a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelinčič, as a proposaler, I must explain to you that there will be no misunderstanding that there will be no general debate and decision-making on the proposal for decisions under Rule 29(2) of the Rules of Procedure, so we cannot discuss and vote on your proposals. I suggest that if you insist on such a form of decision, refer them to the competent authorities as an initiative. In implementing this Article of the Rules of Procedure, which you are now referring to, the National Assembly decided to draw up a broader written report and then to decide whether to place this item on the agenda. It's also the only decision I could throw, and I'm asking you to think about it. The ones you've proposed, we can't decide. Now the government will have 15 minutes to respond. Who wants to answer first on behalf of the government? Mr. Secretary of State Shaina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u47	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament. There were a lot of questions. I don't know if I've taken note of all the questions, but I would like to answer the questions in full. So when this ministry, the Ministry of Transport, took over Minister Presečnik, ordered an analysis of the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. This analysis was made and showed some deviations from the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. These are key in two ways. The first is that the resources for the implementation of this programme do not come as foreseen in the national programme, in particular by lagging behind as a primary source, representing approximately two thirds of the total assets, namely the so-called petrol tolar; and the second by slightly slowing down the construction also comes from the so-called toll. It was previously found that in Slovenia we have two toll systems or two toll systems, the so-called closed system and the so-called open system, and appropriate studies or appropriate professional bases have been commissioned to determine how to solve this problem. So we are talking about two key sources for the implementation of the national programme and the solutions that will follow this part of the national programme. At that time, two were made in this area. On Friday, this amendment to the law on the provision of funds for the construction of state roads under the national highway programme was adopted. We believe that this is a very good basis for a national programme for the construction of motorways to have a stable, sustainable and adequate source in the future, which is the basis, of course, for long-term commitments, for appropriate planning and, of course, for appropriate adaptation of content and solutions to the construction of motorways. It is also important that, while a minimum annual quota is set, these funds expire when the national programme is implemented. Another important resource decision is the Government's conclusions, which in the long term obliges the Ministry of Transport and Dars to collect the toll in line with the kilometres used, or kilometres transported, in the free traffic flow, on the entire network. This task is long-term and can come into force, given that technological solutions have not yet been introduced in us, but also in Europe, somewhere by 2008. This gave a clear direction to the profession, and particularly to Darsa, to work on toll development by paying for road use by road users in Slovenia, according to the free flow of kilometres. On the basis of these sources and on the basis of the findings of the derogations in the construction of the motorways themselves, Dars has been asked to prepare a national programme rebalancing, with, of course, the preparation of the annual programme for 2000-2003 and the medium-term development programme. Dars has joined this production process and will also prepare these documents within certain deadlines. Here Dars was directed to check how this programme could be implemented by 2010, and it is clear that the resource deficits I have already mentioned will be around 200 million ECUs by the year 2000. The question is, of course, for Dars, and the task of finding opportunities for private consent to bridge this funding, either on the basis of concessional construction or on the basis of some other private agreement. The solution of these types is quite something in the world, and the task of Dars and the Ministry, which has this task to find the most suitable solution for Slovenia, is the most appropriate way to involve private consent, so that this programme will be implemented by 2010, of course, under the question and assumption that such investment will be rational, cost-effective and appropriate to our environment and our situation. It is clear that private capital will not come to Slovenia to avoid profit. The question is, of course, how high is this profit, and the question is, how much, despite Slovenia's contribution to private capital, does it fully gain through the fact that the motorway network is previously built, that the economy is encouraged or encouraged, and that they are given opportunities for economic and efficient operation. These are both assumptions and assumptions, and these tasks will be answered by Dars or the relevant professional services and put a solution in place. We assume that accelerated funding, accelerated construction of positive effects, even though it also covers capital costs.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u48	Is that part of your answer, Mr. Shaina? Madam Minister would like to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u49	If I may continue. Of course, some problems arise in the construction itself, which are primarily related to problems and difficulties in integrating new routes into space. Absolute respect for the local communities as well as their demands, in order to solve the problems that arise with, I will say 'burial' intervention into the space, which, of course, every highway represents, and an appropriate solution to the problem, both for the local population and for the environment, are essential prerequisites for a democratic and consensus-based solution. And these solutions are often not cheap. It is important to be aware that the construction of the motorway solves transport problems in the first place, and in this respect a national programme is also being rebalanced, i.e. that the dynamics and deadlines for building such that the most pressing transport problems will be solved first, then, of course, the rest. Here, of course, there are also problems related to cultural heritage, archaeology, land purchases and all, of course, which is linked to property that both the Ministry of Transport and Dars, of course, and as well as other government departments, must absolutely respect and respect them. And that sometimes costs a little money. The effectiveness of Dars. As you are aware, the administration has been amended in the past year. This administration is now a three-member board. The invitation to tender was also in accordance with the applicable statute of this company. However, the Statute was stopped when the company organised itself in 1994. So this matter did not arise now, but it had already arisen and these conditions were laid down in this invitation to tender. The government has entrusted Dars with its conclusions on what it must do in its mandate to be effective and to pursue the objectives set for them. Dars is following that. It also has constant supervision by the Ministry, which is further strengthened and better defined in the sense that there would be no problems for this society to somehow separate itself from the objectives set for it and, as effectively as possible, to build the highway network as economically and rapidly as possible. The other companies, especially the DDC, are an economic company which, in our view, can be privatised in the future, but, of course, it is also a prerequisite to create an appropriate market for this work. We have the construction professions in Slovenia and this is an extremely quality profession. This profession is also recognised in the world as a high quality, some of the professions we will have to, you mentioned financial engineering, also properly organise and include it in order to find it from a financial or investment perspective the best solution. There are some questions that I have not been able to answer at this time, and, of course, the Minister would also like to add something, if I have understood correctly. But everything else will be fully reported. Let me just say one more thing. The control of Darsa is basically dual. By the Ministry of Transport as the Ministry of Transport and the Supervisory Board, where representatives of the National Assembly and this Supervisory Board are, of course, monitoring Dars' operations and reporting on the actions they have, reports on, or decisions on plans, final accounts and Dars' reports. So he's informed of everything, as detailed as possible. I hope I can fully answer your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u50	Madam Minister, Dr Petrinov, has a good two-and-a-half minutes to complete the government's response. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members. I think that Parliament's discussions are too serious to use these moments that we are given to exchange our views in ways that are not appropriate or misleading. Mr Pece quoted me or said what I should say to the Committee on the Economy when we discussed the takeover law. We also have, of course, stenograms and from them we will be able to understand the claim. Well, in the debate we discussed the protection of domestic property and the question of whether the protection of domestic property is sufficient, in itself, for it to lead to a successful economy. My next question was what foreign capital or foreign investment has shown in Slovenia so far, and then I quoted the results that were also published in the OCD study and also prepared by OMAR, which shows that a comparison was made of how effective the companies with a share of foreign capital were and showed that they were more effective and the reasons for this have also been indicated. This is exactly the summary of my discussion, which, of course, is also evident from the transcript, and please, when we quote each other, let's stick to it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u52	Would any of the government's representatives like to supplement that response? [[He doesn't want to.]] According to the Rules of Procedure, there is now an opportunity for them to take part in the positions of the parliamentary group, three of them have entered the floor up to a maximum of five minutes, first colleague Mamić on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, then colleague Podobnik on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, and therefore colleague Peca on behalf of the Slovenian National Party of Parliament, and I see also colleague Kelemina on behalf of the Socialist Party Group of Members. I'll give you my word in this order. Comrade Mamić, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u53	Thank you very much. I welcome all present, so I won't mention it, because time is precious. I've been interested in the chronology of the gas tolar since I've been in this House. Since it began to gather, this has somehow been mentioned by Mr Jelinčič, and this has not been the case. My key question is, where did that money that should have been used for the highway or that should have stayed in the industry? From the beginning it did not go 100% for motorways, 13% was already smaller, and every year less and less, so in 2000 it remained only 37%, and it is said to have been used even less than that. This integral budget, which you call it, I think it's nothing more than a mere delusion, throwing sand in people's eyes. It's the same thing as saying two, one has plenty of money, the other little, we'll put together in the same cash register, and we'll share the same thing, and it doesn't matter who gave it. Now, is it possible, since this gas tolar has been collected, let's say, how did this tolar move? This is of great interest to me, because I have also asked this question as a question of the Member State, and I have never received an answer, not at all. Even the rapporteur writes, it was so much about the highway this year, this year so much, so much so etc., but to get an answer to that question, I didn't. I hope so. This construction of our highway and the assumption of 1993 that by the end of the century or millennium the highway cross will be completed. I guess we're at 41% now, and there's more money spent than everyone thought at the time, I think 540 kilometers, or something like that. There's one more thing I'd like to comment on is what I just said. I have a feeling that when it was predicted that when it was planned, there was too much confidence in some profession that I would say fell on the exam, and to count 59%, I don't know what kind of profession that is. Someone told me that money could be used to make highways, but it's just bridges, and there's subways, and there's overpasses, and there's deviations, and I don't know what kind of monitoring facilities. For God's sake, the builder needs to know first what the highway needs, because if he only did a highway without all these accompanying objects, then it's useless because he won't have to step on it. So it's a bedtime story. I'd like to point out, for example, Rebecca, who we all know is what they are. There's money lying there, 94 billion lire, because I don't know how long they've been lying down, and every day, every year, I'm going to say, there's less money, and when it was agreed that Italians would co-finance 50:50, it's only 25 now, given how much it's needed for those 10 kilometers of heavy section, I emphasize that. And also, let's say, a kilometer of road, a highway that can't be used, and it's dead capital. I don't understand that either. We'd make another mile or two to at least use that if we invested some money to have some of it. There's something else I'd like to say about this incompetence I mentioned earlier. There are so many built objects along the highway that are unnecessary, for sure, and that is unacceptable. For example, when it was planned through the Vipav Valley, when it was planned, when nothing had ever been done, it was just a regulation, I drew attention to things when I was a municipal councillor, and a few other people got involved, and nothing helped. It was easy for the designer gentlemen and the Darsovs to ignore us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Comrade Mamić. The following has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group colleague Janez Podobnik, followed by a colleague of Peca on behalf of the Slovenian National Party. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u55	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Madam Minister and Madam Ministers, fellow Members! In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it would be correct to hold the government's response framework in our five-minute debates, but not to open up all questions on this subject, because the matter is then completely confusing, completely confusing. The fact is that the construction of the highway cross is discussed by the National Assembly at least twice or three times each year, and these are discussions that are long, which are generally substantive, which are controversial, which are also emotional, and when it happens that in a way that is of course business, which is legitimate, that is to say, on the proposal of a parliamentary group such a debate, then there are usually improvisations, flat-rate claims, sometimes even insults and unrealistic words. In my short speech, I will try to stick to the Prime Minister's response to Mr Jelinčič's question on the post and then to the broader response of the Secretary of State, Mr Shine. First of all, I am pledging, colleagues and colleagues that with our discussions we will raise our confidence in the highway program in Slovenia. Members and Members of Parliament are obliged to believe in this project and to treat our discussions in such a way as to enable taxpayers to believe in it. We can be critical of it, maybe there was something wrong, but history will show that this may be one of the biggest economic projects of the independent Slovenian state, and let us be proud of this project. Let us also be critical of him, but let us also be proud of this project. That's the first thought. The second point is that we are Members and Members, who are all bloody under the skin, at home from different backgrounds, and whenever a road cross programme has come to the National Assembly for each year or more, we have added another section of our section, another section of our carriageway, some other property, and we have generally built it up a little, and there are an annexes coming. Don't forget that, too, sometimes when we're so critical of the project as it is. Third thought. I support the Secretary of State, Prime Minister and Minister Presecnik, that the time has come for the construction of the highway crossing next to the petrol toll, state budget money and credits to enter private capital, whether by Slovenia or by others. And that's why it's so important that we believe in the project and believe in the leadership of Dars. For if we believe in this project and if the procedures are correct, we may also know how to financially design a project or programme, so that Slovenian citizens and citizens may be able to elevate their money, and they may also invest it in bonds for a certain period of ten or fifteen years, with a stable yield, and in this way we, Slovenia and Slovenia, would co-finance the construction of this highway cross. I suggest we think this way. But as for some words about leadership, allow me another thought. We personally and in the Group of Members appreciate the mag. Janez Bozič, he is a member of the Slovenian human party, and that is not essential. He is an expert, he has brought with his presence at Dars the necessary rationality, especially credibility in his work. Mr Christmas is an honorable man, and with his work he certainly inspires confidence in this project. Finally, Slovenian construction companies are known to have problems; they also have them because there is a recession, because they may have become too burdensome and too ambitious to buy construction and other machines when they went into this big project. However, Slovenia's construction operation has been in some difficulty. This is also evidence that it is trying to act as rationally as possible on the tenders. However, if some errors have been made, there are mechanisms to detect and sanction them. One thing you have in mind, Comrade Jelinčič, all right. If the Dars Act stipulates that Darsa's seat is in Cel, so be it. Let them choose, I think I've heard, 28 engineers and others who have collective contracts, get in the car in the morning and take them to Celje. Here the government has no mandate to play the decision of the National Assembly and the law that says that Darsa is established in Celje. You're right here. You are also right there when you say that it is necessary to achieve, through control and other mechanisms, that we will complete the construction of the highway as quickly as possible. Colleagues and colleagues, I propose that we go forward with our performance to find the best solutions, we have tunnels under the Trojans waiting for us, viadukt Black Cal. These are the years when we all knew that the money would run out to increase interest. Now is the most critical period in the construction of the highway cross. Let us continue to believe in him and support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, colleague of Peca. I'll put my word behind you to my colleague Maria Pozsonec. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u57	Thanks again for saying that. Given that we have been cited by the government in the Slovenian National Party, we have, of course, obtained an early transcript of the speech on the Committee on the Economy. And let me quote Mrs. Petrinova's words. "I think it is also necessary in the Slovenian national interest to create the conditions to attract, also attract to our economy direct foreign investment." We did not use or alter the meaning of the text in the Slovenian national party. And if the Minister is sorry for her words, we are very pleased. But I won't talk about it anymore. There was talk of more serious issues,
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u58	Please, because the Minister doesn't have a chance
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u59	on private interest or private capital. Of course, the whole of Slovenia lies on private capital. Only 3 per cent of the national budget of the Republic of Slovenia of 1200 billion, and something else, consists of non-tax revenues or consists of those generated by this country by its own management. A little force and a little force. So it is also to be expected that we will build roads with capital, for example private, only the difference between the Slovenian National Party and the Government of the Republic is that we are defending domestic capital - we are generating domestic capital, we are generating the synergy of domestic capital that will circulate and be botched in our country and not that in our country, we are pulling foreign capital, which will soon go away and this country, we are making for something that we will depend on Europe or those countries that will be in our country, unfortunately also in the field of road cross making, our country will be pulled down. Of course, criticism flies to the government of the Republic of Slovenia, flies to the government of the Republic of Slovenia because it has all its hunters on Darsa and other companies dealing with roads in the Republic of Slovenia. I mentioned only one of these hunters earlier, this is the headship of the Darsa Congregation. But if we look at the naming composition, let there be a supervisory council, a financial council, we'll see that there are no experts sitting in these circles, there are politicians. And let me fix you up somewhere else, the National Assembly doesn't have its own representatives in the Supervisory Board. None of the Members are in the Supervisory Board. This prohibits the act of incompatibilities in the performance of the function, and you should know this before you say that the State Assembly has any control mechanisms. He doesn't have any. And whoever says otherwise to you here today is wrong, and probably on purpose. In order to avoid misinterpretation, the Slovenian National Party only wants one thing to develop this highway cross as soon as possible so that we can use it both Slovenians and those who go in this country, let's say on a transit route. However, we do not want this construction to be irritated, because we have so many different performers from different landscapes who dictate their rate of price - because in this is sadness, we do not set a rate of price. We regret that each year, from the gas tolar, a higher percentage of the construction of this road, we regret the fact that the plan to build the highway cross in this country is logical and I have to turn to the speaker in front of me, Mr Podobnik. No, in the Slovenian National Party we are not prepared to lie to taxpayers to believe in this road programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u60	Watch your mouth. Watch out for the words we use. Please, my friend Peca, continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u61	We can take a look at the magnetogram. I wrote it down. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u62	At this point in the agenda you cannot be replicated, you must take this into account. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u63	I'm sorry, Mr. President, but I didn't pass. In short, in the Slovenian National Party we are not prepared to believe in a programme that is unrealistic, just so that taxpayers say - if they are so naive, and I personally do not believe that they are so naive - because politicians believe and we will believe. Let us show the real picture, we will all be more pleased with the real situation in the area of motorways, both economies and our societies as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The following is the word of colleague Maria Possonec, on behalf of the Hungarian National Community delegation, followed by colleague Kelemin, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Please, colleague Pozson.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would kindly warn you and the government and parliament that Slovenia is also going beyond Troyan and beyond Maribor, to the Hungarian border. I would react to the implementation of Mr Shine, because the dynamics of construction and the choice of direction cannot be based solely on the density of traffic. In 1994, the former Parliament adopted a priority direction for the construction of the motorway, namely the east-west, and in the rule of law, the adopted decisions and laws contained in the previous reference are respected. Another time. The legal state respects the international treaty signed by the state ministers of Slovenia and Hungary, after which the Slovenian motorway reaches the Hungarian border in 2004. Hungary last year reconstructed 120 kilometres of highway from Budapest to the Slovenian border. Where are we? Third time. The construction of the motorway and the development of infrastructure is still of development importance and can affect the development of the entire region. Without adequate infrastructure, there will be no development. For God's sake, does this government really want to make a Slovenian Siberia or a ghetto out of Pomur? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u66	Thank you very much, colleague of the Possonians. The last Group of Members, which, according to my list, wishes to present the views of Colleaguez Pozsončeva, has now been, colleague Kelemina has a word five minutes later, followed by colleague Anderlič on behalf of the LDS Group of Members. [[...]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Certainly, in the light of certain comments, we are discussing the government's response, but if the government's response is poor or incomplete and unsatisfactory, certain things need to be repeated or even opened up new dilemmas and some things need to be pointed out. Let me say that the real highway programme of the century really means words, if not even the programme of the two centuries - that is, we started building it in the previous century, in the 1970s, and we will probably build it far into this century. In the Socialist Party's Group of Members, we also find that something must be very bad in Dars. Indeed, this has been pointed out in particular every year in the previous mandate and also in this mandate when adopting a programme for the construction of motorways, the provision of financial resources or the handling of certain reports. And many times we remained very lonely in these efforts, and no one really wanted to listen to us. Today, when it all came to its head and when it all sat down, so to speak, to the point of extreme complexity, such questions began to open. Of course, we support this because it is better to open a question at any time than never. In short, these promises about the national programme on the construction of motorways, which should have been built long ago in the first project, have somehow - and I hope and dare say so - become cheap lies. In fact, there is a variety of deception that we do not have enough building capacity to operate or that we do not have enough capacity and so on, it does not hold anything at all. The fact is, we don't have enough money to use it for other things, to use it and to use it for acquisitions, then to purchase or transfer funds to other countries south of us, of course to old Yugoslavia and so on. The capital flows from Slovenia to another place, instead of using it alone at home, so of course we cannot build roads and the country, logically, is unable to build them on its own. We should build about 50 kilometers a year, as was said, and maybe build less than 20. Despite smaller investments, which is very worrying, despite smaller investments, it is said to be smaller investments and the cost of engineers is rising. We have always warned about this in the previous term. No one can tell us why this is actually happening. There was a father-in-law somewhere around 3%, if I'm not mistaken, which is, of course, far beyond European standards, today this percentage is over 5.6%. This is unacceptable, and why this is happening will likely be difficult to answer. Next, it is certainly important that our road cross be built in an extremely non-systemic way. No corridor is complete. Show me where a person can come from one end to the other, not from Ljubljana to Koper, not from Ljubljana to Maribor, not from Ljubljana to Jesenic, not from Ljubljana to Zagreb, there is not a single section built in any continuity, all just a few things work in between, and in the middle of all the voids, etc. Not to mention this, and it is certainly important to stress and express the sharpest criticism that too expensive sections are being built. Only if we look at the Trojans, I'm sure the Prime Minister has gone now, this is his project, he could say a lot about it, we'll throw 100 billion over our shoulder for that. We had cheaper options, but to those who demanded and placed, and examined cheaper variants, you wanted to cut their heads off, and we went to the hardest program possible, via Trojan. Someone's got to pay for it here. We're in charge, over 1,700 billion we only have an external debt. Who's gonna pay for this? Now you are talking again about the 250 billion that need to be provided additionally for the construction of the highway cross to continue. I don't have easy words. Other sections are, as has already been said, where, after unnecessary construction, certain objects are built, where there would also be cheaper variants. At the same time, I have to warn or criticise the incorrect decisions that some sections may then build parallel new roads that would not be necessary and, of course, the whole system as well as the dynamics of building a road cross. Then there was something about the tolls. Even that program, that project that was already in place, where the toll had already been properly installed, you broke it in some parts or changed it. Thank you very much. I'll conclude. In short, a series of unanswered questions or answers. I hope you can at least explain some of this. We're waiting for answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u68	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. I give the floor to my colleague, Tonet Anderlich, representative of the LDS Group of Members. Please. Thank you very much, but now it will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u69	Mr. Kelemina gave me a chance to join. I don't want to be Darce's lawyer, and I don't want to defend any of the things that have been said here. Not because of the fact that, of course, I would not believe in the programme, I did not believe in what we had drawn up with the national programme, but simply because I do not agree with many of the things that have been happening in all these years. In particular, I do not agree with the fact that in many areas there has been a stalemate that there have been no relevant explanations, no relevant reprogrammes, no measures to address these delays and these delays. I hope that what I have read, that when Darsa's new administration is appointed, the government has adopted certain conditions, certain conclusions and that in a few months we will have a national programme balance at the table, measures for organisational change of society, measures to provide additional resources and so on. Unfortunately, this institute is allowed in the Rules of Procedure to open up a subject that should be prepared more thoroughly, and should have prepared the material. From this magnetogram I was trying to understand what the main problem Mr Jelinčič was talking about first and then Mr Pece, every question you are opening, asking for an answer, asking for an explanation or asking for some proof, asking for some number, asking for some accommodation at some time and in some place. This is not the way to address such important issues as the implementation of the national programme for the construction of motorways in Slovenia. I hope that, above all, the aim is to encourage us to finally get a programme to build highways for 2002 into the National Assembly. I must say that this is incomprehensible and unwarranted and unacceptable that we had a state budget adopted in November 2001, that this budget can also include development programmes and that today, at the end of February, there is no spirit or hearing about the programme for the construction of motorways in 2002. We should, probably like everyone else, like the school programme, for all other investments, in parallel with the budget, have this material on the agenda. Therefore, of course, it is not possible to discuss and talk qualitatively, not about priorities, not about measures, not about anything, of course, if we do not have these things ahead of us. I hope that, as soon as we receive this annual programme, the national programme will also be rebalanced, because what is currently in progress or is being prepared in the 2002 annual programme deviates from what is, as it were, the basic act on which all activities in the current years are being cloned. Of course, I agree, 2010 is a set goal, but as the programme is set up and as resources can be predicted at this point, I fear that this is not real and that it will be written again, which will not last five years. Of course, it's not an easy job, I know it, it's a very difficult thing, but we don't have to do anything to satisfy some of the regulations that we're dealing with, and life runs completely differently, other sections are being carried out, they're being carried out in different dynamics, there's a lot of other things going on, beyond what's written down. That is why I conclude with the desire or expectation that we will really get answers in the shortest possible time, for the first time, to the questions raised by the government to the Darsa administration on the appointment, for the second time, of the annual development programme for the construction of motorways 2002-2003 and of the national programme. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. The last, at least on my list of applicants for the presentation of parliamentary positions, is colleague Kebrich, on behalf of the DeSUS Group of Members. You have the floor, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In our Group of Members, we are always dealing with Darsa as it is at least twice a year on the agenda of the National Assembly. Our findings, which we have already highlighted, are the following: I am taking advantage of the opportunity to link myself to what is the subject of today's conversation. We see the problem multiple-layered because we look at it from different angles. We see three problems: the first is money, the second is hands and the third, if there is money, the hands are not respected for a simple reason because there is no documentation. Why there is no documentation, of course, is another problem. If we focus on the basis that we expose, we can say that we have a program, but we have no responsibility. We have no responsibility and no means of sanctioning responsibility; if we do not, then everyone can come to us every time with certain excuses, mostly, I will say, objective, but we also place subjective reasons and subjective responsibility here and nothing happens. However, this does not happen because the National Assembly does not, for the first time, have any representative in the Supervisory Council in order to be able to place things there in one way or another, and on the other, there is no other possibility of imposing sanctions in order to sanction this responsibility. Firstly, the programme was both financially and professionally completely unrealistic. We've all been misled in good faith together, it'll be somehow, but it won't. On the other hand, we do not defend that rigour, if there is a highway in a certain section, there is money in Darsa's budget, local communities don't give consent, there is no building documentation, and what now - whether this money is being re-analysed somewhere else or simply something, you don't want to have, you can't agree, we won't build with you, but we could build a lot more in other territories with the same money. And these are our basics. If we do not resolve them under responsibility, the matter will not improve. And I'm saying that all the plans that they're putting in place today, if they don't get sanctions, will, as they say, be barking, the caravans will move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I hereby conclude this part of the agenda item, which, at the initiative of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group in accordance with Article 29, was given by colleague Jelinčič. He also put forward proposals for decisions, which are qualified for decision, not prepared in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and cannot be voted on. We continue to ask the questions sent. The first will now ask the government or ministers a question, Mag. Andrej Vizjak. You have the floor. Please and 3 minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Ministers and Ministers. I would ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, although I believe that this same issue should also be raised by the government. And I think the problem I want to point out is more pressing than the problem of highway construction, which is the problem of increasing unemployment in Slovenia. See, the number of unemployed persons reported by the Slovenia Employment Office to re- and re-raise and December of last year was at the level of December of the year before, in short, and has also increased above last year's average. The trends are therefore extremely negative as regards the rise in the number of unemployed people, but of course Slovenia is also facing new problems in this area, as we are practically daily witnessing the new hire of workers' leave and also of workers' leave in regions that are already so deeply affected as regards development options and, of course, quality of life. Let me mention just two regions: Prekmurje, where major discharges are announced in Mura and a very pressing problem also in Posav, where Vipap announces the dismissal of workers and, of course, other textile factories and processing, leather processing plants. I therefore believe that this is an alarm, that it is a matter of willingness and the need to resolve these problems by the Ministry. I would like to say that the National Council has adopted a national labour market development and employment programme by 2006, which, in line with the new European model, the development of the labour market and employment, introduces an integrated approach to reducing unemployment and promoting employment and, of course, wants to achieve certain objectives and, of course, the fundamental objectives are to reduce the unemployment rate. We have to say that this goal is moving away, we're actually going in a diametric direction. I therefore ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, in view of the budget adopted, in view of the strategy adopted and also of the action programmes that he expects in the middle of this year, and whether he has any more effective action programmes prepared, the resolution of these problematic companies that have announced layoffs during this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u74	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Andrej Vizjak. Minister, Vlado Dimovski, Dr. Dimovski will answer your question. As a rule, let me just say this at the opening, the Minister's answers or ministerial responses do not last more than 7 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Ambassador Visiak, for the question. The fact is that there has been some information about unemployment in the last period and, therefore, allow me to briefly explain what is actually going on in the labour market, because some of the information that has also been transmitted to the media in some way is not accurate and it is right that we are actually talking about the accuracy of this data. First of all, what I would like to say is when we talk about the macroeconomic situation, as far as the labour market is concerned, we can say that last year, the average number of unemployment was around 101,000 and something else. The fact is, we have a so-called cycle, which, in a way, falls in the middle or somewhere in June, falls in July and then starts to rise again by the end of the year. This is actually a situation that we have somewhere since 1993, 1994 onwards, that we have at the beginning of the year, that is, January, February, a higher rate of unemployment, then falls and then rises again and then we have a situation by the end of the year somewhere where it was in some way at the beginning of the year, but with a certain fall. Well, that is the situation now, in fact, also in 2001, that at the end of last year about 105 thousand were unemployed, and that is also the result of some of the changes that have taken place on the wider global plan. Let us not forget that, in fact, the rate of growth in the last half or the last quarter of last year has fallen, given the projected rate of economic growth, which was projected at over 4%, to some extent 3.2%. In fact, forecasts for the last half of last year have also declined. By reducing overall economic growth in last year. Firstly, for this year, according to forecasts by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the rate of economic growth has not been adjusted downwards, which means that the rate envisaged is also after the latest report by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development 3.6. In this sense, we expect that economic activity will not occur, at least for the time being, according to the forecasts it has, as I said, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, to reduce unemployment on this account. The fact is that the Slovenian economy - as you have already seen - is entangled in these international flows and that, of course, it feels every wave of economic growth, as in some other markets. As it is known, Slovenia's largest external trading partner Germany, which is then bound to America through its external trade, and then this level of realisation down to economic growth was felt first in America, as it is known, then in Germany and with a two-quarter delay in us. Since we have industries that are most closely connected to the German market, this is called the textile industry and the metal processing industry, a certain response to this reduced rate of growth has also been found in some of our industries. However, all economic analysts and all institutions show that, in fact, there should not be or will not be a decline in economic growth in the second half of the year, even on the contrary, they are talking about some recovery of economic growth, which is, of course, to respond to us. That's what I'd now say, briefly, what was going on. The next thing we need to say about unemployment rates is that as far as macroeconomic indicators are concerned, if measured according to the methodology of the international organisation of work, in Slovenia the growth rate at the end of the year was 6.3%, while in France we have 9.0, say, in Germany 7.9, the average of the European Union is 7.7. This is now the case with regard to these macroeconomic data, which are comparable. That is why we must always talk about comparable macroeconomic data, comparable data, so to speak, the European average of 7,7 when we are talking about the European Union countries, while Slovenia, as we said, is 6.3. Yet, despite all these indicators, the issue of unemployment is always a difficult problem. The problem is that, in fact, anyone who is unemployed can eventually become a social and other problem. As a result, the situation that took place in the last quarter of last year and partly in the beginning of this year has been thoroughly examined by the Ministry of Labour. We have found that the most problematic level of education for the unemployed is certainly the most problematic. And we find that there's actually a correlation between being unemployed and being very low on education. And that, in fact, these structural differences, when we approach the European Union as a Slovenian country in some way, are exacerbated by the conditions of employment especially for those with a low level of education. And you could almost say that in those who have a sixth and a seventh higher level of education, there's almost no unemployment, but the most unemployment, let's say, is more than 80% in those who have a second level of education. Therefore, in the last 14 days, we have drawn up an active employment policy programme, which we have also presented at a press conference today, which the government will address next week, has been calibrated to say, individual instruments, measures, so to speak, have adapted to the situation that has arisen in the labour market. I could say that we have directed most of these instruments to where we have segments with a high degree of unemployment. These are especially older ones, those who are long-term unemployed, for example, who have not found work for more than a year, then there are disabled people, especially disabled workers, and young people up to the age of 26. These are the categories that are most at risk. This is why we have focused the instruments on this segment. Second, to put it this way, the criterion we used is the criterion of the unemployment rate in the regions where the three regions are mainly affected: the subterranean regions, mainly Maribor, then the surrounding areas, Prekmurje or Pomurje, and the two regions, and the surroundings of Ptuj. These are three segments in Slovenia, mainly the north-eastern part of Slovenia, where the unemployment rate is above the average of Slovenia. More precisely, we have developed some additional measures for these regions. In particular, we have increased the quota of public works for the Maribor area, the Maribor area unit, more than 500 new places for public works, for Prekmurje 250 additional places for public works, by trying with the measures that we have at our disposal to operate in this direction. Predictions, what you asked at the end. Today we have also received data from the Employment Office, which are employment rates for individual jobs. This is the indicator that measures in some way or degree the vitality of the Slovenian economy at this point. We took a comparison of January 2000, 2001 and 2002 and found that, say January 2000, the degree of integration - now I am speaking without public works and other active employment policy instruments - about 4200 new jobs, that January 2001 was 4600 and January 2002 was 4800, and 4858 is the last number. This is said to have approached the number of 5,000 jobs in January, if we are not talking about active employment measures, which shows - now here we conclude - at a very high level of vitality of the Slovenian economy. However, the fact is that we will continue to work hard to effectively monitor, in essence, the measures that we have as a ministry at our disposal, in order to maximise the effectiveness of the individual resources at our disposal in the national budget. It is said that every programme that we will present as an active employment policy will need to be very precise about the effectiveness of each programme. In the implementation of these programmes, the Employment Office should follow the evaluation scheme, which we have prescribed to know exactly what the resources for the individual programme are, what the individual programme is and what it is, the cost of integration into employment, which means that we are also trying to increase the efficiency of the implementing organisation in some way. It's the Employment Service. I've put down some of these specific numbers, some specific orientations. The government will consider the Action Programme or the Active Employment Programme next week. With regard to the textile issue, which you have also mentioned, we will probably propose some additional instruments. The main route, however, will be a job conservation programme, which is supposed to be this cycle, which is [[...]] [[A warning for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u76	Mr. Secretary, please, if you can finish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u77	[[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] in some way it's been established, in some ways softened. [[...]] I apologize for the longer answer, but it's so many different dimensions that I had to answer a little more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u79	Of course, I have a supplementary question. I come from the data of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment and it is not true that these are cyclical movements. Here I have a comparison of 1999, 2000 and 2001, in no year so far has the rate at the end of the year of unemployment been much higher than the annual average. Let me just mention that in 1999 there were about 126 thousand unemployment at the beginning, at the end of 115 thousand, that at the beginning of 2000 there were 116 thousand unemployed, at the end of 107 thousand, and that there were 105,000 at the beginning of 2001 and 105 at the end of the year, about 104,800 and something else. We have a marked trend of growth and deviations from cyclical movement. This concerns me, and I have asked this question. Quantitatively, according to these movements, I am asking the Minister how much unemployment is expected in the middle of this year, if we say that in mid-2001 there were 97 000 cca 500 unemployed. I would like to know what the Minister's announcement will be, and this is a very specific question. How many registered unemployed are expecting in mid-2002? That's one thing. The second is about public works that are not the solution. Please give me an answer, for example, for one textile worker at 50 years of age who is already almost disabled by virtue of the forced posture of the body, how and what employment programmes this worker can say in Prekmurje or in Posavje or elsewhere in Slovenia he expects and as a perspective. I think that this is a serious problem that the state, not just the Ministry of Labour, but a much broader one, would have to address and, of course, find the right solutions. Therefore, I also take advantage of this issue as a public call to ministers, including in the fields of the economy and education and other areas of course, to reflect on this situation, on these economic downturns, which are also announced, that this should be one signal for finding significantly more appropriate solutions than the budget in active policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u81	Thank you very much. We can continue this discussion. I had to limit myself to the time I had. The fact is that he mentioned public works, for example, but he could mention some other instruments to which we have been promoting in these regions. The fund, which is in Pomurje and so on and where the first redundant Mure workers have already received a certain retraining and will receive it for a certain period, for retraining and so on. I agree with you that some of the issues are deeper, so to speak, than the instruments that the Ministry of Labour has. It is clear that the unemployment rate is always in the function of economic growth. However, economic growth is always a function of investment activity and is interlinked. For this reason, I thank you for drawing attention to this mechanism, in fact to the interrelationship of economic growth, investment activities and unemployment. One more thing, given that you've been thoroughly studying the data that the Employment Service has. One element that you probably did not take into account is the implementation of the Social Security Act, which brought an additional number of 2000, 2,500 according to the latest figures, the unemployed, which were registered under the Social Security Act, in order to receive or become eligible for social security benefits that were not actually available in the past. That's the first element. And the second element that I have mentioned is, of course, that swinging down in economic activities, especially because we are so connected to the international market, could not be without connections with Slovenia. At the beginning of this year, however, economic forecasts have improved, depending on 3.2, 3.6 this year. I have here, if you'll excuse me, a picture that shows cycles in individual years that you know well. And this cycle actually exists. If these forecasts are to be followed by, say, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, the unemployment rate should, of course, be reduced over time, especially depending on the growth in economic growth and, of course, investment activities. However, this is influenced by several factors that affect each industry in one way or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u82	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the Member of Parliament, Mr Only Bevk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u83	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! For the third time in the last year, I have been asking representatives of the Ministry of Finance. When will the government draw up a law on the financing of municipalities, which has become completely opaque, controversial and possibly inconsistent as a result of a number of changes to date, the annulment of individual decisions by the Constitutional Court, the new law on public finances? In addition, the Constitutional Court also requires 30 Slovenian municipalities to assess the conformity of Article 26 of the Law with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which is that article which speaks of State co-financing of municipal investments. This year, local elections will be held, and it is therefore as important as the marriage obligation that any new municipalities should be known at least six months before the local elections, it is essential that those who submit to the elections as potential mayoral candidates and municipal councilors, political parties and, of course, the public, know what awaits them in practice in the area of community funding. Why am I repeating this request? Especially because last month I was sitting at a meeting of the National Assembly, Minister of Finance of Magi. Anton Rop claimed that the starting points for changes and additions to the Law on Community Financing were already being prepared and that intensive negotiations and discussions would begin for the final drafting of the law, both within the government, the coalition and, of course, also in the National Assembly. After almost a year in January this year, State Secretary Helena Kamnar answered my repeated question and stated to me that the law on the financing of municipalities under the Government's work programme would be prepared in the first quarter or first trimester of this year. That is why I was so surprised when I read in the working programme of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was published in the Rapporteur of the National Assembly, that the government would not draft the law until October, so to speak, just before the local elections. I think this is unacceptable, so I ask the representatives of the government or the ministry: why such an unacceptable delay in the preparation of a new law on the financing of municipalities and when the proposal for a law will come to the national assembly. I thank the representatives of the Ministry and Government very much for their response. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State in the Ministry of Finance, Mrs Helena Kamnar, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u85	Thank you very much. The law is prepared in work materials and is currently in intersectoral coordination. I guess that'll take some time, then he'll go into coalition coordination. Of course, in the meantime, we will also talk to the two communities of the municipalities and in this procedure we will reach such a stage that they can go into the parliamentary procedure and, rather, into the government. That is how I still think that if we successfully endure all these discussions, the government could adopt this law and send it to Parliament in the first trimester.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u86	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Valentin Pohorec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u87	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear Ministers and Ministers, Secretary of State and Secretaries! My question is similar to what my predecessor has already asked and the answer has already been partly a day, so I will shorten my question. However, I have provided it in writing to the Ministry, as well as an analysis of the issue of financing social activities in one of the specific municipalities, how matters behave from 1995 to 2001. Here's what's happening. The state lays down the conditions under which social activities work - these are laws, regulations, collective agreements, standards and the like - and things change during the year. During the flight, things are being encouraged, the law is being amended during the year, the regulation is being amended, and a standard is being changed during the year. All of this, however, encourages or increases items in these areas. The municipalities must cover this difference from their own resources or at the end of the year they receive a certain level of compensation. However, the mayors say that not to the extent sufficient or to the extent that these promotions occurred during the flight. Since they do not have other resources, they take from those sources where they finance their community activities and so on. Thus, in a sense, they are deprived. However, they have no effect on the amount of these costs, since these are legal matters. So I would ask: What will this look like in the budget in 2002 and 2003 and will these differences come again? I would like to repeat the question: When are we going to change the law on the financing of municipalities and whether it would not be possible to regulate these activities by financing the state directly to these institutions, not through transfers, through the municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs. Kamnar, for your answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I'd separate your question into two parts. One part concerns system-wide legislation that sets out the division of tasks between the municipality and the country. It is, in fact, the one which, as a result, determines which functions the municipality must finance through its budgets. This is also adapted to the calculation of the appropriate expenditure and, consequently, to the calculation of the financial compensation that individual municipalities receive from the State budget. In fact, the second part of the question is addressed, if I understand correctly, whether the calculation of the appropriate consumption of municipalities means that we have new collective agreements, new wage obligations for individual types of activities financed from municipal budgets, or following any new tasks that individual laws impose on municipal budgets. I will limit myself to the second part of the question, because I believe that this is the part that is intended for me or the Ministry of Finance. I must say that the calculation of the appropriate consumption of municipalities was based on the use of municipal budgets before the law on the financing of municipalities was approved in the National Assembly - this is said before 1999. Every year, when we calculate the appropriate consumption of municipalities, which is then also adopted by this Parliament and determined the principality, the so-called principality, is explained by the procedure used in the calculation. I must say that in calculating the appropriate consumption of municipalities, we respect consistently the elements that we also use in the preparation of the national budget. This means, however, the starting salary used for individual types of activities in the budget as a calculated element and, of course, contain what was negotiated by the trade unions until the time the budget is submitted to Parliament. I must say that this is precisely why the law on public sector workers' salaries requires the government to negotiate with trade unions by 30.6. in the year in which the budget for next year is being created, to avoid what you say the Member State will later conclude an agreement between trade unions and the government and then, as a result, strike at the budgets. In order to avoid this, we have moved these hands much earlier, so that the consequences will not then be shown later, which can only be rectified by the rebalancing of budgets, either state or municipal. Another thing is the tasks that happen in a given area in a given period through sectoral legislation. We also take these facts into account when calculating the appropriate consumption. Let me say that, in 2001, appropriate consumption per capita was increased by 823 tolars, based on the valorisation of wages, on the growth of material costs, and also on certain tasks that were envisaged to be transferred to municipal budgets in 2001. In 2002, the principal of this title was increased by an additional 800 toll per capita and included certain tasks, in particular in the area of pre-school education and primary school transport, as well as in the field of social protection. If you look at the materials that were submitted to the National Assembly for 2002 on the calculation of the appropriate consumption, then you will find all these elements very precisely in this material. I therefore believe that all these facts are taken into account in the calculation of the appropriate consumption, and consequently this is also taken into account in the financial correction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u90	Thank you very much. The following is Mrs Maria Pozsonec's question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u91	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Nice greetings to all present. I will address my mission to the government. In the meantime, I regret to note that the questions and initiatives of the Members are only an unheard call in the desert, and such an institution of the questions sent has been eliminated. For free, I begged, I begged, I warned because of the difficult situation of the textile industry in Pomurje. No one was harmed that he went to the bankruptcy of Indip Lendava and that 130 workers were left without a job, that this will also be done tomorrow in Textil in Prosjenjakovci, with about 315 workers. The mass migration of workers from Lendava and Petrovec facilities to Mursko Sobota began, and this is from Mura. Once again, this is not appropriate from a human, social, demographic, economic, family perspective of workers and the local community. I agree, we must urgently save the Mura factory. We need a strong parent company, but we also need to save the area near Mura. With 20% of unemployment, about a thousand jobs are again put out. The developmental differences between Pomurje and the more developed part of Slovenia are so great that this is not acceptable in a democratic, human and just society. It doesn't matter what happens to all those seams without a name from Lendava, Prosenjakov and Petrovec. With your name and surname, you too are responsible, Mr Prime Minister, Madam Minister for the Economy, Mr Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs and Mr Minister for European Affairs. Therefore, please reconsider their position, help to maintain their jobs in Lendava, Prosenjakovci and Petrovci, and then we can discuss various incubators for tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u92	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Economic Affairs, Dr. Tei Petrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. I think we've talked about this a number of times. But I can give you the latest information on this issue. At our ministry we also had a meeting with the representatives or administration of Mura, where we asked what was going on with these workers from Petrovec and Lendava. They told us that no one had lost their job, that they had only been transferred to new jobs, and that this was a feature of the Mure from the past. People moved from one plant to another, even according to the products produced by Mura during a certain season. Therefore, none of these were dismissed, and even in the restructuring programme that this company is preparing, they are not identified as some kind of workers who will lose their jobs as a priority in the event of further downsizing of employees. In addition, the issue of Pomurje is currently being addressed by the Slovenian Regional Development Agency, the Mura Agency and also Tipo for attracting so-called foreign investors, as domestic investors are unfortunately not interested in investing in this area. The situation is being resolved within the context of the options available to the Ministry or ministries. The Ministry of Labour is also involved in solving the Mure problem and is already preparing, as I know, a programme of human resources reconstruction. The Ministry of Education will also be involved with its resources to help retrain individual workers in this area. The first analyses have shown that it is difficult to attract foreign investors to generate new jobs, because if one is closed, then new jobs must be opened, either with domestic capital or with foreign capital, because each investor will see the availability of workers in an area and, of course, their structure, the qualification structure. That's how we're going to focus all our efforts on this. At this point we are looking for solutions, but of course we must all understand together that the solution cannot come overnight.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u94	Thank you very much. A supplementary question, Mrs. Possoncheva, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Of course, they haven't fired the workers yet, but they're going to have to cancel the job themselves, because you can't ask your mother to give the baby away for protection at night. So they don't have any cribs or kindergartens at their disposal. That's one. The jobs that will stop in the most endangered area, and they will, tomorrow, because they've already traveled to Murska Sobota, will never be opened again. These women can do it, and they do it well. They were also successful. What do you do? Do not let these jobs run out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u97	Let me repeat what I said: none of these establishments lost their jobs and is not marked as the first to lose their jobs. However, that some of us have to drive to our workplace, sometimes even after an hour or half an hour, this is a situation that affects not only some, but many people in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the Member of Parliament, Mr Jožef Kavticnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u99	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear ministers, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Forestry. Last week, at an extraordinary meeting, we discussed and discussed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Fund for Agricultural Lands and Forests. The great concern of individual Members has been expressed in relation to forest management. I personally observe and others also observe that our forests are increasingly neglected, that in our forests there is somehow anarchy. I ask what is the cause of this situation in our forests. After telling those who are professionally engaged in timber and forestry, there is something about the situation. I'm going to count the most important, and I'm going to ask you for a comment. Is it true that public services are understaffed? Perhaps one forester must somehow inspect or control more than 3,000 acres [3,000 ha] of forest. Is it true that contractors calculate their profits themselves? [[We are talking about GG and about cooperatives]] Without control? Is it true that foresters in public services are overburdened by administrative work and are therefore failing to carry out appropriate controls? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food will answer you, mag. Franz Booth. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Perhaps I would first repeat the information that in Slovenia around 750 000 economic forests are privately owned and around 270 000 of these same forests are owned by the Agricultural Lands and Forests Fund, of which about half will be poor in the denationalisation processes once this is completed, and then it will also become private property. The rest will, of course, remain state-owned and will be used in accordance with the law. In the Republic of Slovenia we have a company for the forests of the Republic of Slovenia, which employs more than 800 people. They're all paid from the budget until the last toll. I could not agree that this service is too numerous or overloaded with administrative tasks and so on. On the contrary, I think that Slovenia also has a time when this service, as well as many other services, will need to be gradually reorganised, reorganised in the context that part of their services will be left to the market. Slovenia, with such budgetary options as it has, will not always be able to finance all many public services in the various sectors in full the same scope as before without gradually allowing slightly more competition into their funding structure, which can be done by transferring a few parts or better, part of their services or tasks they carry out into a slightly different form of payment. That's what you call paying by those who need this service. I'm not just talking about forestry, I'm talking about agricultural advisory services, and I'm talking about other jobs. However, it is probably possible to find similar solutions in other sectors. When we visited the Dutch delegation of the Ministry here, they were little surprised that in Slovenia we pay all services from the budget related to consulting, to perform certain public functions or to serve as services providing to the private sector, as well as to the public sector, such and other services. As regards the calculation of the profit operators themselves, by the operators themselves, without control, this cannot be done by the concession contracts concluded. We will also give the Member an accurate calculation, as well as copies of the documents, how and how this procedure is carried out. This will also make this answer a little more complex and a little more complete. However, experts estimate that the part, perhaps external images as you mentioned, of the more neglected forests to be attributed, although they would not agree with this, also the fact that, according to experts, at least an important part of them, in Slovenia, we urgently need to change the way in which the evaluation and the professional basis for the preparation and determination of the annual ethate are prepared and determined because they believe that too much quality wood is due to the low ethos and then due to the non-use of this ethos, especially in private forests, also half of the referenced or possible ethate is not used in many cases. As a result, the quality wood compositions, when cut, are essentially served in many cases, especially in the case of the leaves, like wood, and by no means as technical wood, which is also the primary purpose of economic exploitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Kavtičnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u103	Thank you very much for your answers. All of this should not excuse the fact that people do not clean up after themselves when they cut. This surveillance should be, whether it's a state forest or a private forest. I would like to draw attention to this, and I also want something to improve or make progress in this direction.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Booth, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u105	Thank you very much. He's totally holding. There is no difference between private and state ownership. In this context ownership is, in fact, irrelevant when it comes to issues, as you mentioned. In order not to be misinterpreted in the previous reply, which concerns the services and tasks which only inspectors can perform, these are tasks which must, of course, be performed by an authorised inspector; in a Slovenian case, this is within the framework of the Agriculture, Forestry, Fisheries and Fisheries Inspectorate. Of course, such a task cannot be privatised, because in this case it would be difficult to believe everything, which would then be obtained as a result of various activities in the field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u106	Thank you very much. The next one has the word, Mr. Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. As a member of the Slovenian People's Party, I am very concerned about this year's Emma 2002 event. The Ministry of Culture, which is responsible for the public institution of RTV Slovenia, asks: What does it intend to do, or has it already done to strengthen the reputation of the national RTV house, which was further trifled with scandal in the selection of Slovenian song for the song of Eurovision? This is a serious question and I would like a serious answer here. Nevertheless, I am taking an additional initiative. Given that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes part of the Council of RTV Slovenia, I propose that the members of the Council of RTV Slovenia, appointed by the National Assembly, require clarification of the events and responsibility of individuals when the time and results of the vote of viewers and listeners are assumed to be adjusted, as the Slovenian public was informed by a representative or member of the Board of Telekom, Mr Kramberger, last night. Some members of the commission, who were and had a decisive weight in selecting Slovenian song for the song of the Eurovision, publicly announced after the scandal that they would no longer participate in such commissions next time. Therefore, I expect from the Ministry of Culture and members of the Council of RTV Slovenia, which he has appointed, once again, to stress those appointed by the National Assembly to act promptly and decisively in accordance with their powers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Under the authority of the Minister, the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Culture, Mr Bozidar Zorko, will give you the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u109	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! We will, of course, wait for the results of the internal investigation which was allegedly launched in the context of RTV and for the notification of what was happening. However, I would like to point out that our ministry is competent to operate or to monitor the functioning of the public service of RTV, but it is obvious in this case that there are other things where we think it is necessary to continue to take advantage of the authority of the management of RTV, which, of course, has all the powers to act and also to protect the reputation and the name of the public institution, which, of course, has all the authorities, the public authorities which RTV has. This is the world of RTV and the supervisory board of RTV. We think they owe you to do something about it and to do something about it. We cannot take direct disciplinary or such measures. In accordance with the law and in accordance with the measures to be taken on the basis of the findings of the management or the bodies of the Council, we will also, if necessary, act as well, but only in accordance with the legal powers we have, in such cases I must point out that in fact the powers are very small, because it is clearly an internal problem which, of course, has a great turnout in the public eye and which is detrimental to the public administration. But obviously it was happening inside, and we can't be the disciplinary authority of the RTV Public Service. So we will wait for the findings and then see what our responsibilities are, what our options are, and what are the findings of what really happened. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Silva Črnugelj. Mag. Majda Potrat, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u111	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear ministers, Minister, distinguished representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. The question I am asking the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport is linked to the one I addressed to this Ministry at the 8th meeting of the National Assembly on 25 September last year. It is linked to the denationalisation application of the Maribor diocese for the reimbursement of the school premises in which the public school programme is now being carried out in nature. In public publications, it has been possible to read several times that the plans with secondary agricultural school, which also has plans for the development of higher professional programmes, depend on the agreement between the government and the Maribor diocese, as well as the agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, through which the programmes in agricultural education are to be renewed. During a January interview at the secondary agricultural school in Maribor, it was heard that the secondary agricultural school as a tenant was to live with the high school under the same roof, and later the agricultural school was to receive a new building, which would enable it to develop even better. As it has been repeatedly pointed out that all the problems faced by the schools in Maribor in solving spatial problems stem from the absence of a precise school network plan, I repeat part of my question. I have received from the government a list of denationalisation applications relating to school buildings, which I thank for. However, I still have not received an answer to the question: How many of these claims relate to return in nature? What will be the financial consequences of the changed situation of public schools in these areas if they return in nature, and how will this affect the network of schools in Slovenia? I would expect a written answer, but I thank you now for your oral and written answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, Dr. Lucia Chok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Thank you so much for asking. When you got the last answer, it was incomplete because you didn't get what you asked today on the list. Believe me, this isn't easy. All the consequences, which also have financial implications, are said to be the consequences of a decision in the denationalisation process, which also entails financial consequences, so it is not easy to calculate. Perhaps today I would answer only for this school, what we intend to do to see that every single school or educational institution involved is thoroughly examined before we decide. And even in the case of Verbanska 30, the final decision has not yet been made. I would repeat that everywhere, even in the audience, it appears as if we have already decided to return in nature, even though we know that it is still in process and that the defence has not yet said its own and that a reassessment has also been ordered. To tend to bring Verbanska 30 back in nature, however, there are the following reasons. The first reason is that there are three institutions in this place. These are the Faculty of Agriculture in Maribor, a student home in Maribor and a secondary agricultural school in Maribor. We know about the Faculty of Agriculture that it is already in the programme of budgetary resources for reconstruction, that construction documents have already been prepared, I think also building permits, and that we know that we will start building lawsuits this year. The Faculty of Agriculture will be moving out of these premises by 2005, I think. The houses also have their planned city in Maribor, with the number of cities assigned to Maribor within the framework of the 4500 bed project. So it's also home for the next four years in the plan to move out. Agricultural education is in this area, not under shock, to be limited in any way in the network, but under the reconstruction we are preparing together with the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. In the spring we are preparing a consultation, where we will mainly present new agricultural education programmes at a higher level and new secondary education programmes that we want to put into this space. In fact, so far they have been doubling, say, a florist or gardener, in Ptuj Shenchure and Maribor, which of course is not possible, because the entry into these programs is then 17, 19 or more students. Among other things, we plan to see this school in its development, when it has a detailed development in the new strategy, come to the desired toll for knowledge of new construction. Of course, this desired knowledge toll is in preparation and in coordination in the pre-government procedure. However, I would like to ask Mrs Crnuglova to be patient, but for the other requests, she should be given a written answer within the shortest period of time - and I do not know that because the Secretary of State is not here, he has just gone out, but he is in charge of this question - whether he will be able to do so within a month.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u114	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Branko Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. All respectable once again! I will ask a question to the government or the relevant ministry with a request that it responds to me. This year's winter on state roads, regional roads on the first, second and third lines across Slovenia has caused real destruction. I think it's even a national disaster. I think you've had an opportunity for all the Members who are on these roads to find that our roads are catastrophically falling apart. The fundamental question is how is it possible and why our roads are so sensitive to weather events or why each winter is so disastrously devastating on our roads. As a construction technician, as well as as an expert in construction materials, I hope to say with full responsibility that our roads are built in an inquality manner and are also built from inquality materials. Effective control and control of road construction, I'm sure it's not. As a result of this billions, we throw a huge amount of money into the void, or the government's irresponsibility is certainly very great, and we could pay a little more attention to these things in order to get them off properly. I therefore ask the Government: What additional measures are envisaged to address this catastrophic situation on our roads this year? Is the government preparing a special law to remedy the effects of winter? How many additional resources will it take to address the consequences of poor performance and poor quality of materials on our roads? I ask politely for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u116	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State in the Ministry of Transport, Mr Anton Shaina, will answer you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member of Parliament, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Thank you so much for asking. Your conclusion that this winter caused extensive damage to the road network is true. The Ministry of Transport, the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads has already reviewed the situation and found that approximately 200 km of state roads are in such a state of derelict that it will be necessary to repair them as soon as possible. I cannot agree with you that road building control is bad and that damage is caused by this title. Slovenia has 6,000 kilometres of roads. If the average time were on roads for 20 years, this would mean that we should restore 300 km of roads in Slovenia every year and restore them somewhere between 150 and 200 km, which is a deficit. The result is that we have 1,500 kilometers by the criteria of the so-called Swiss factor, 1,500 kilometers of very bad roads, of which 1,500 kilometers has "blossomed" in this winter 200 kilometers and will urgently make repairs. We don't have that money in our budget. We have already collected this data and we will have to decide - this solution is not yet there, because we have yet to harmonise it - how these matters should be resolved. There's also a possibility with some intervention means, but I can't say this right now. In terms of expertise, the matter is ready, funding is not yet provided.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your answer, Madam Secretary of State. I respect you very much and I appreciate your work, but I'm sure I can prove it and I'll try, or if you cooperate and help yourself. However, I say that the technical elements of our roads are inadequate. A lot of drainage has not been solved as it should have been done. There are no or neglected roadblocks or even no roads, nor are they maintained. We know how the Macedonian roads used to be built and how deep the ditches on both sides had to be. The basic technical elements or characteristic profiles in Slovenia are not taken into account. I can show you a hundred cases. Even the opposite is happening, farmers, that they can drive all the way across the road, spill these ditches and, of course, allow the water to be kept on the road, so there is no drain and this causes the roads to rise. It is also a fact that materials are not quality. We all know how structures work with different materials, if we want to build quality, we don't have it. The tampon is taken where it's possible if it's "fine", we know it's nothing. I am firmly convinced that he cheats on these measurements. I firmly believe that the final layers are not what they should be. They don't have the strength, they don't have the quality they should be. Not to speak of a wearable layer that is often absent, but should be of great quality. The wear layer should never be peeled off the base if it even exists. And it's getting hot. Why? Because it's not acceptable because it's not done as it should be. I'm pretty sure. Therefore, I suggest or expect you to agree that the ZRMK is going on the ground to find out the reasons for this. A little in Slovenia, let them "trap" it and find out why it happened and make a report and send it to the National Assembly. I think it's the only right solution to know where we are. But where you're going to get the money, I'm really curious whether you're going to propose a special law or some other way. This has to be repaired, it's impossible to limit speed to 40 kilometers, from 90 to 40. That's the easiest thing to do. I don't think the Slovenians will be happy with that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Shaina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u121	Some of the things you mentioned are true, poor drainage, inadequate or insufficient maintenance, which we should pay more attention to and, of course, devote more resources. That's one of the reasons. There are also many reasons for the fact that in the past, even in self-government socialism, road companies as builders have been left to themselves in many ways, but that is not the case today, although of course I do not exclude certain exceptions. Many times the institution, the appropriate institution, but it is not just a material research agency, goes to the field and searches and, of course, also rejects the payment for some kind of work done. Of course this is happening. The materials prescribed must be of quality and subject to appropriate sanctions. But it is also true that we are devoting increasing attention to supervision and the quality of construction. In doing so, we must not exclude the large participation of heavy freight transport. We, of course, suffer the greatest loss of roads where the share of heavy cargo traffic is large. Finally, it is true that sometimes we do not have the right attitude towards the road, because some people drag wood onto roads, damage roads without detection and without appropriate sanctions. We will also pay even more attention to this, so that the attitude towards the road as well as the public good in the inhabitants will be a little bit more "delighted" and that what is important to all of us will also be more safeguarded. I will, of course, take some of your initiatives further, and I hope that these things will be even better in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u122	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Dr. Andrej Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. My question is about very poor and slow implementation of the law on denationalisation and, of course, it is addressed to the whole government, especially the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Finance. Pursuant to Article 72(2) of the Denationalisation Act, the denationalising beneficiary may claim compensation for the inability to use or manage the assets to which it is entitled. The courts are already handling the first claims for damages. The case law establishes the position that pending denationalisation cases from 1.7. 1996 onwards are in such a delay that it is an unnecessary delay or decision within an unreasonable period, which constitutes, on the basis of Article 26 of our Constitution, unlawful conduct and therefore the right to reparation. Who will be the final payer of compensation claims for the inability to use or manage property and for the maintenance of real estate from 7.12.1991 until the end of denationalisation? Legal experts and practitioners predict that real denationalisation will only begin with the claims of the beneficiaries, both on the basis of Article 26 of the Constitution and Article 72(2) of the Denationalisation Act. One thing is for sure, Slovenian taxpayers should not bear the consequences of the unlawful conduct of the state administration and the holders of public powers. The question is whether the government has the financial resources envisaged for the payment of high compensations, since the debtors will certainly require compensation or damages paid, as they are not to blame that the State has not completed the denationalisation process after more than ten years. The legal deadline under Article 58 of the Denationalisation Act is one year from the application for denationalisation. Since, in these specific cases, it is possible to demonstrate the unlawful behaviour of persons, including ministers who participate as officials in the process of denationalisation, their direct liability is also given. I will be grateful for the oral and written answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister of Justice, Mag. Ivan Biszak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u125	Well, of course, the longevity of denationalisation is an extremely serious issue. The government is well aware of this and is trying to finally bring this process to an end for more than ten years. First of all, I would say that, in any case, not all of this backlog - or all of these ten years is not at the expense of too slow work or failure to resolve claims; in many cases it is also a matter of incomplete claims, which took time. Therefore, it is not possible to attribute all this time simply to the lack of proper action in a particular case. Of course, it is too long in itself and, on the other hand, it is also necessary to make it clear that these matters need to be completed. I can say, only as an illustration, that a number of administrative units that, at least by deciding at first stage, are gradually finalising or will soon be able to complete the resolution of the applications lodged with them. Unfortunately, some of them will still be likely by the end of this year. With regard to the question of compensation for non-useability, you have already indicated the key parameters. It is clear that this provision is present in the law, but under all the conditions that I have already mentioned. It is not possible to assign a full period of time in each case, nor can it automatically be attributed to this or to any reason found in the inadequate functioning of the State. I don't know. I don't know. I don't think there are any. Now anything else on this subject, of course, we can also try to answer in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Next, supplementary question, Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u127	Thank you very much. I certainly agree with you, Mr Minister, that it is not attributable to any wrong functioning of certain administrative units or ministries in all areas. This will be decided by the courts. But the question is that there is a growing financial responsibility here, which has its basis in the law, and that we do not have the means to do so. And that we will finally be Slovenian taxpayers, that this will remain on our shoulders, and that we will have to pay what is obviously in a number of cases is just a failure to enforce the law as it is appropriate. Since the statistics of the association have clearly demonstrated that between June and October 2000, within four months, 8% of all issues have been resolved and only 48 in the previous eight years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u129	Well, these statistics, like you quoted here, I don't know the statistics I have myself, don't show that kind of data. I'm not saying anything was done at the time. I think that statistics just in the last period show that we are all very well aware of the need to resolve these issues and, of course, to avoid the consequences that you are drawing attention to.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Bogomir Vnučec has the next question. I'm sorry, Mr. Barovich. I've got you crossed out here. Barovic too, please. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u131	Thank you, Madam President. My question is addressed to both the government and the Ministry of Health. Construction of oncology at the Clinical Centre in Ljubljana should be completed last year. Oncology should be finished last year. Today it is built, expressed as a percentage, about 15%. Fifteen percent! The government and the Prime Minister personally pledged monetary assistance to complete the construction of oncology. Regrettably, the number of patients with these diseases is increasing, and people are swerving in the corridors, which is certainly not an example for our country. Oncology stands, but there's no money promised. I ask the government and the Ministry of Health: Why is there no money promised? Where's the money that was promised? And: Where is the money that was planned to build oncology? For we know that no construction is planned to end if the funds are not provided. This means that the funds were provided and the construction was not completed. 15% is the benchmark for the construction of oncology. So the question was clear. Why is there no help - promised help? And: Where is the money that was promised and supposed to be given, and where is the money that was collected and designed to build oncology? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, mag. Simon the Supreme, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. I welcome all Members and Members of Parliament. I apologize for the minister who is absent abroad. Thank you very much, Mr Barovic, also for this question, because I am pleased to be able to answer such a question, to which the answer is relatively appropriate. I'm not going to let go of what happened in the past with the oncology institute or its construction. In any case, in 2001 we put the oncology institute among the priorities of the Ministry of Health and government priorities for construction or on the financing of the building of the oncology institute. My assessment would be that more than 15 percent of the institute has already been built. The building is practically - phase I - standing. True, they follow a variety of internal works, and then there is the equipment that needs to be installed, and all is subjected to some dynamics that are possible. But it's money and it's a priority, the project is a priority, and the money is guaranteed. The only limit why we cannot spend all the money we are willing to provide is that, for purely physical reasons, we cannot follow possible or impossible to implement, they cannot build as quickly as we would like. At least in the past, when construction was primarily about this construction work - you know, the construction season has certain hands, or it lasts from a certain time to a certain time, an annual time, etc. So, the promised money is, the money that is planned is; it is ready, it will, it is planned enough, it all depends on what dynamics we can make the matter happen. But as we know the possibilities, we plan or hope that, during this term, the oncology institute, phase I, we will be able to complete and perhaps open up and somehow end up with this project. So I think this is a fairly correct and clear answer to your questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u134	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Bogomir Vnučec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u135	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Honorable members of the government and members of the government, respected national council. My question is to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Kopač: In the parliamentary procedure, we have received a new law on the construction of buildings and the regulation of the premises, which will replace the four existing laws, and the unequivocal will take root in the faster and better acquisition of construction and other permits. Of course, the question arises as to what happens to those who make or file their claims at that time, and the law provides that these claims will still be dealt with under the old laws. Well, and here is quite a dilemma, especially when we all know that when we adopt the law before the instructions are written and so on, we run out of time and, of course, we all don't have time or have no time to wait for a more favourable law and put in place existing ones, and then there are various problems that can very much interfere with the process of issuing these permits from the existing legislation. I would like to know if the Ministry is considering a transitional period that would solve these backlogs more quickly; first, at the first stage, when administrative procedures are not respected and the two-month period of response to applications is violated; then, at the second stage, when, due to such or other, justified or unjustifiable complaints, these applications are then literally aged, at least, half a year, if not even more, also due to lack of personnel. But I ask the minister: Has he thought in this direction that even if we are already adopting a law that is positive, it would also make all those roles that are now in some age - aging is also beneficial in certain matters, but it is not - how would we find a solution here to remedy these setbacks, which are quite large? And I wonder if there is any strategy here for this trend - it is said that you, as a college minister, would ask how many building permits have been issued this week, so that this number could also be increased here, let's say that the number of black buildings would not be larger than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u136	Thank you very much. You will be answered by the Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Janez the Digger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u137	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. At the Ministry, we are working hard to reduce backlogs or backlogs, and I have already discussed or answered these questions once in my answers to the questions. Although I do not have very specific numbers in front of me right now, I can say that with internal reorganisation we have increased this section by two lawyers, that we have foreseen overtime work and that all of this has yielded some results that show up in a reduced number of applications. However, we can, of course, provide you with written accurate information on how much the average status of pending applications is reduced. With regard to the issue of the new law which allows for individual actions to be allowed at all - some of them are now in the process - for most others or for all other procedures, but for all other procedures, I can say that everyone who already has a role in existing procedures, under existing legislation, will be able to start their own, in short, life of these roles, if it is in their interest to assess that this will be paid to them. It's hard to tell when we're gonna get rid of all the backlogs. But I will try to make sure that by the end of this government's term of office, that by 2004, we really do come to, I can say, zero, as far as the backlog is concerned. But believe that this, unfortunately, cannot be done quickly, although I would very much like it, and that we are trying to improve the situation from month to month. But when I got there, the average waiting time was a little over two years at the second stage, now it's already slowing down, but it's going very gradually. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Franci Rokavec has the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u139	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Respectable members and members of the government. Nice greetings to the Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament. The Slovenian Agency for Restructuring and Privatisation has no control over its operations for more than nine months. In fact, the National Assembly elected a new Supervisory Board of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Restructuring and Privatisation at its May 2001 session. According to the information I have, the constitution of this Supervisory Board has not even been implemented yet. I therefore ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent authority, the Ministry of Finance or the Ministry of the Economy: What are the reasons why a constitutional meeting of the Supervisory Committee of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Restructuring and Privatisation has not been convened since May 2001? And the question is, what was the control of the agency during this period? He wasn't here! Article 3 of the Act on the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for Restructuring and Privatisation states: "The activity of the Agency is to carry out professional and other tasks relating to the privatisation and property transformation of enterprises with social capital under the law on the transformation of enterprises or tasks related to the restructuring of enterprises and banks for the purposes of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with its programme." We know that ownership is coming to an end, but it is still a very topical area of banking. Article 10 also states in the second paragraph: "The Supervisory Board shall monitor the legality of the Agency's work and financial operations. The Supervisory Board shall report at least once a year on the functioning of the Agency to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia." I ask: what will be the report of the Supervisory Board or the Supervisory Board of this Agency to the National Assembly if there is no possibility of supervision? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The colleague was addressed by two representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Minister of Economy Dr. Tea Petrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u141	Thank you for the question, Mr Member. The appointment of a new supervisory board is already in progress, I think. He was also appointed V.D. the director of that agency. And after the appointment of V.D., the new director of the Agency, also follows the appointment of new members. However, of course, they were old members of the committee, I think, appointed and acted and performed their function. If you are not satisfied with this answer, we can also give you a written report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u143	Dear Madam Secretary. Of course I can't be satisfied with your answer. In fact, the Supervisory Committee of the Restructuring and Privatisation Agency was appointed to the National Assembly in May 2001. The problem is that the procedure for the establishment of this committee would not have been carried out at all. And from that moment forward, the agency has no proper control. So I'm actually asking: what measures will be taken to ensure that the Agency has adequate control? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The following question would be asked by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. Respectable. I have a question for the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Kopač, and I can see that he is not in the Chamber right now. I also have a backup question for the Minister of Education, but she's not either. I'm really not asking myself any more questions. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u146	Mr. Petan, please, I think Minister One question to ask, choose him yourself, I think we're going to be one or the other, or for the environment I think [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u147	If you think the Minister of the Environment is probably around here - for example, I'll ask that question. I want to ask him: Are there rumors that the geodetic authorities will stop? What would remain of these geodetic administrations would be privatized in some form. The current situation in this area is that almost all field geodetic measurements are no longer part of the geodetic administration, but are carried out by private companies that perform contractually field measurements for geodetic administration, and then, at a second stage, make the necessary records, carry out administrative procedures, issue data, update maps and so on. According to the new one, it sounds like geodetic administrations - these exhibits, which are usually in the seat, where there is also the seat of administrative units. This is said to have been abolished in the former major congregations. This service and these tasks are intended to be centralised and carried out only in larger centres throughout Slovenia. This would mean a complete centralisation or a major step back, a major problem in the search for services from citizens, which ultimately makes this part of the government. That's why I'm asking the minister, "Is that true? At the same time, I would like to ask him: How do they imagine this ministry in the future? For those who had little to do with geodetic services could find that maps on geodetic administrations are not updated, that in most areas in Slovenia there is usually a large backlog, in some areas for several years. It is probably not surprising to many that in the middle of a market in a large town, where asphalt has been for some ten years, it is still written that this land of Category I is a processing area. That's pretty critical. And if they're holding these rumors that this service is going to centralize up to a certain limit, it's going to end, then of course it would be a big step back. I would like the Minister to answer my question. I thank him for his answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Minister for Environment and Space, mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The Geodetic Authority is in the process of reorganisation, but in the process of rationalisation, which will not be known in relation to citizens or users of its services. In fact, on the geodetic board, they slowly assemble all their archives into digital form. And they're also getting processed in electronic form. This will, in fact, be in the perspective - unfortunately, this is very slow - to provide these services only in a few centres across Slovenia, while services for citizens, meaning this direct contact or visit of the citizen on the "salter", will still be where it is today. In short, where there is usually a seat of administrative units throughout Slovenia. This will actually reduce the number of required employees on the geodetic board in the future, but I reiterate: where the "chapters" are today, the "chapters" will also be in the future. In fact, the work will be done by some people who, when citizens visit the Geodetic Authority, cannot see, concentrate in a few centers. This will substantially rationalise the work of the geodetic administration. But there is also something to say about the second part of your question. Cataster's digitizing. I don't know exactly at this point in time, but it's already close to 100 percent digitized. In addition, we are in electronic connection with the land book and all new entries into the land book are also carried out simultaneously in the cadastral and vice versa. Thus, in a few years, all these anomalies, as you mentioned, will be eliminated. And that the conditions, both in the land book and in the cadastral, will be up-to-date and identical. Because now, in fact, there is even a bigger problem than what you mentioned, the problem is that the situation in the land book is sometimes quite different from the situation in the cadastral. This process is carried out within the framework of a project called the modernisation and recording of real estate - an inter-ministerial project of the Ministry of Justice, Finance, Agriculture and the Environment and Space. Well, for this project we have received a large loan from the World Bank and, of course, we also have to report regularly on the progress made in this project to the World Bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Petan? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u151	Thank you. Well, I'd like to ask you a further question. Where will they be, or who will be responsible for updating the cards: or are these just the centres we talked about or the exhibitions? And how many of these centers are there? I'd rather see you give me a number so you can write them down for me, at least from our squire's end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u153	This plan of reorganisation is not entirely appropriate, and this instant geodetic administration is storing data or archives on, I think in two locations, if I'm not mistaken; one is Tolmin, one is Logatec, but I'm not quite sure, I think so. Well, this process will move slowly forward and once this is done in, say, this large part of Slovenia, then the situation will come when this reorganisation can be implemented even to the end. As long as this is not the case, it makes no sense to determine which centres should be specific or where these new geodesic units are to be established. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Mamić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u155	Thank you very much. I have a question from the field, will the mayor's and councilors' elections be held in 2002 or 2003? By decision UI-301/98, 19.9.1998, the Constitutional Court found that the second point of Article 3 of the Law on the Establishment of Communities with the Constitution and the National Assembly set a one-year deadline for the elimination of the finding of non-compliance. By the same decision, the Constitutional Court, pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 40 of the Law on Local Elections, concluded in the third paragraph: "The mandate of the Municipality of Koper shall be extended until the term of office of the new municipalities, which shall be established in accordance with the second point of this sentence." As a result of this decision, no regular local elections were held in the municipality of Koper for 22.11.1998. As the known area of the Municipality of Koper is still not in line with the Constitution and the current local authority, which is in the hands of the United List of Social Democrats, opposes the harmonisation of the area of the Municipality of Koper with the Constitution. Now it also opposes the local elections by claiming that the mayor's mandate and the councillors are four years. The decision of 23.9.1999, which allowed local elections to be held in the municipality of Koper, states, among other things: "The contested law only regulates the transitional situation until harmonisation for the areas of the Municipality of Koper with the Constitution. When the Koper municipality area is in line with the Constitution, Article 24, paragraph 4, of the Local Elections Act will result in an early election." The Constitutional Court thus assumed that the State Assembly would enforce its decision of 17.9.1998, which had already established for the second time that the municipal assembly was not in conformity with the Constitution, and that early elections would be called as soon as possible. However, since it is a boycott of the enforcement of the compulsory decision of the Constitutional Court, we would expect at least a logical explanation that regular local elections are being held throughout the country for all local communities, including the Municipality of Koper. The answer to the question raised is also important because voters and political parties in Cyprus live in uncertainty about whether or not the elections will be held in Cyprus this year. Perhaps the government will draw up a new law in this regard, so that I want an answer, even in writing of course. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u156	Thank you very much. You will be answered by Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u157	Thank you very much for that question. As the question has been raised, this issue has been addressed by the Constitutional Court and also by several legal experts with quite different views on which rights have priority: either the right of citizens to go to elections, like all other citizens, which is one legal value, or the expectations of voters to elect mayors and councillors for the entire mandate, and finally the rights of those who have been elected based on expectations that they have been elected for the full mandate. In short, it is because of different legal views on this question that there is no definitive answer at this time and the Ministry of the Interior cannot design it. For this reason, the Ministry of the Interior has put into government procedure a law on amendments and additions to the law on local elections, the law on local self-government, and this law will, among other things, resolve this issue. The law is expected to be in government next week. The law will offer solutions for the expiry of the mandate at all if the mandate is terminated for various reasons. At the same time, a solution will be offered for the specific issue of the Koper Congregation. Thus, at the end of the decision on this issue, it will be up to Members of the National Assembly to adopt this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u158	Thank you very much. The following is Mr Peter Levič, who is not among us, then John Sponik, who is not. I give my word to Mr. Frances Cuckati. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. I'm referring to the Ministry of Health. In September of last year, I asked the question: When did the doctrine of the methadone program be discussed and confirmed by an extended professional college for psychiatry or the health council? Further: How much resources does the state devote each year to a patient who is being treated in the therapeutic community? The question was the result of cases, among which I mentioned one where a teenager of his friend who had never had a drug before scored, so to speak, that they went to the Ljubljana-Center health center. He said the "tall" was addictive, and he had no choice but to go on methadone. From then on, he was given a dose of methadone every day, and after six months he became completely addictive, truly addictive and truly "total". Then, of course, after six months, the parents discovered this case, but they put it into some therapeutic community in Italy, Don Perin's community, and now this boy has practically been abstinence for a year and a half or two. Well, the question was raised because the methadone programme was still, in some way, still in the Ministry of Health as the best such programme, as shown by funding, namely this programme. The Ministry replied that it paid 300 million tolars a year for this programme. The Ministry also forgot to write the price of methadone itself, because there are 1347 teenagers on methadone in Slovenia and there are only 668 teenagers without methadone in these centres. 1347 times 365 days a year - because every day is a dose of methadone - means 491 thousand doses, multiply by price, almost a thousand costs a dose of methadone, is 500 million. These prices have to be added, the respected ministry, the price of $300 million, we get $800 million, we get 400 thousand dollars per methadone, per teenager, earned and on methadone. Well, of course, here the ministry also indicated that for all the therapeutic communities in last year it has allocated 3 million hundred, that is for eight guards. I ask the Ministry: Is such a procedure appropriate?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mag. Simon the Supreme, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. Dr. Cuckoo, I must admit that you've got me back on my left foot with your question, because it's hard to answer questions that require a deeper answer than someone who can actually come to such a meeting without being prepared for an answer. Here I can only say so much: the methadone program is a matter of medical, medical, or only treatment of addicts in the part that relates to health care. We know, in fact, that the treatment of addicts is not only a health service but also a social service. While we have given you an answer regarding when the medical professional bodies - this is said to be an extended professional college and health council - have addressed these programmes. By chance today, for example, another letter, from which we can see it, says that the same program was discussed by the Health Council on April 6, 1994, at its 26th session and updated the 2000 program. That's the way it is. When we say, for example, how many of us - because your question was about how much the Ministry of Health intended for these programmes, and we say to you: what is in the budget for such programmes. It is clear, however, that treatment is financed from compulsory health insurance and supplementary health insurance. Thus, for more complex answers to such questions or to the claims you are making, you should clearly take more time and also a stronger number of resources, resources, to actually get answers to these questions. So if you want, we will complete the answer to this question; if you explicitly want to, say it, and you will get it, as you have received an answer to this question within the time limit, including the answer to today's question within the time limit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Sugar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u163	In view of the fact that you yourself mention that the professional evaluation of the programme, which is supposed to lead the political conduct and funding of these programmes, is an expanded professional college as the top of Slovenian psychiatry in the last Saturday’s annex of Work, wrote in the name of the extended professional college, Jože Darovac, the following: "The expanded professional college for psychiatry considers that so-called maintenance therapy with methadone is only the last way out to deal with drug-dependent drugs, therefore the methadone can only be prescribed when all other treatment options are exhausted. This position or guidance was adopted in 1991 by an extended professional psychiatry college and was also published publicly, but the Health Council in the Ministry of Health for a few years after that without any apparent reason and past the expanded psychiatry college has turned on a green light for the use of methadone in all persons who, alone and often unproven, declare themselves dependent on hard drugs." Next: "Today, in fact, every drug addict seeking help in a health facility is already on the way to a combination of drugs with methadone, which makes it even harder to get rid of. According to some data, there are about 3,500 of them in Slovenia, most of them young people or half of them registered addicts in Slovenia at all." So top of Slovenian psychiatry: And I wonder: Will the Ministry of Health take this expertise into account, change funding and the entire treatment policy, or will the expanded professional college resolve or replace it in established practice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Highlander, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u165	If you'll excuse me. You know, we don't have any intention of replacing this extended professional college, but we have no intention of suspending it. Of course, we will take the opinion of the profession into account. For us, the opinions of the extended professional colleges are the highest clinics of opinion, as you yourself mentioned, tops of the profession. We will act in accordance with these opinions, but - here is that "ampak" - according to the options we have in the system. Once again, I stress that the treatment itself is not directly financed from the budget, except for certain segments that have come into our budget in the past and which, of course, we have an absolute impact, I will not deny it, but the treatment is financed from compulsory health insurance money. And according to the options we have as one of the partners, it is clear that we will cheer for concrete and correct programmes to be financed from this money. And that's "healthy for sure," if I may say so -- I apologize for that expression, but: yes, our serious purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u166	Thank you very much. The next one will ask the question of the Magi. Janez Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u167	Good evening, representative of the government, representative of the ministry, minister, minister. I would like to ask you a question about the functioning or control of the Red Cross. I think that this issue will partly fly to the Ministry of Finance and partly to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. It is known from the publicity that the Red Cross is engaged in many business ventures that do not belong to its mission, the mission of humanitarian organisations. It is therefore also engaged in an activity which is more in the context of venture capital investments and so on. We're also running risky investments. Since this humanitarian organisation or this humanitarian organisation is acquiring a large proportion of the funds from the budget, I wonder whether the institutions of control, state control, either the Ministry, the Inspectorate or the Court of Auditors, visited the Red Cross and looked at what was the intention of using these funds? And another question. In order to avoid these mysteries, what should charities and humanitarian organisations do and how should they do it, I wonder: Is there anything in the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs already ready for the law on charities and humanitarian organisations? We know, as I am aware, that this law should go in parallel with the law on disability organizations. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Vlado Dimovski. Here you go, Mr. Highlander.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u169	Yes, Mr Drobnič, what concerns your question to our department, the rest will be answered by Minister Dimovski. Yes, in the part about the operation and operation of the Red Cross regarding the Ministry of Health, we will, we will, and we will act in accordance with the options we have. I would point out that the Red Cross is essentially an autonomous organisation established by its law, having authorities of administration, management, so that procedures through these authorities and then all others belonging to the normal legal system of supervision should be initiated. I can assure you that what is in our jurisdiction will be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u171	Just for a little while. If you allow me, I would answer about the control of humanitarian organisations, as the Secretary of State has already said: different ministries control various humanitarian organisations, but on some legal grounds. The Ministry of Labour, for example, is as responsible for the operation - not for the operation or supervision, if I am more precise, of Unicefa. And as for Unicef, which was in some sense linked to some small amount, to the operation of the Red Cross, we have already already begun to exercise this control. Thus, I think that the results of this control will be relatively soon known. As regards the second part of your question, in fact, when the first reading of the Disability Organisations Act was discussed in the National Assembly, it was concluded that a law on humanitarian organisations and a law on disability organisations should be prepared together. As you know, the Disability Organisations Act is a very difficult matter and we have dealt with it on the Ministry's expert board of disability issues for the second time tomorrow, and I must say that this consent of disability organisations for this law is increasing, so we expect that relatively soon, probably within ten days, this law on disability organisations will be dealt with by the government and then sent to the National Assembly for second reading. You are also aware that, in essence, these issues, or the legal matter relating to disability protection, are intertwined, and therefore it is very important that individual laws in the field of disability are essentially built up as in some sort of sieve. Because of this, as you know, we have four laws on disability protection in preparation and, of course, we want to harmonise them accordingly. The Disability Organisations Act, of course, provides for certain status of disability organisations. According to some definitions, disability organisations were to be defined in the Social Act or the Society Act, but the decision was also made by the National Assembly to make the law on disability organisations for second reading appropriate. In doing so, a decision was adopted - as far as the law on humanitarian organisations is concerned, and this law is also being prepared by the Ministry of Health. I think they're already relatively far away as far as this is concerned. This is how we hope to meet the conclusions of the National Assembly in this regard, and we hope to draw up both laws and other laws in the field of disability. I mentioned two laws to say that the law on equalization of opportunities - one that would define the individual rights of persons with disabilities - is that the law on disability organisations is one that in some way defines the status and functioning of disability organisations. So the whole system is of course extremely demanding, you yourself have worked in this area, so you know that in fact the system is extremely complex, it is defined by different laws, like the law on pension and disability insurance, etc., so that I do not list all of these, this whole section of these laws. In fact, we would like to upgrade the existing system in order to avoid overlaps or overlaps between individual segments of disability protection. I apologize for the somewhat longer reply, but it is probably reasonable that in some way in this context the honourable Member has indicated.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u172	Thank you very much. I would also like to answer the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Defence, Mr Janko Deželak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u173	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Ambassador, ladies and gentlemen. The Ministry of Defence and its composition, the Administration of the Republic of Slovenia for Protection and Rescue, cooperates with the Red Cross of Slovenia as a humanitarian NGO, in accordance with the Law on Protection against Natural and Other Accidents and the Code on the Red Cross of Slovenia. This is mainly about - what?It is about equipping and training forces for protection, rescue and assistance. The Red Cross of Slovenia organises stations and accommodation units and performs other tasks related to the training of first aid units and other similar tasks. The annual work programme shall be approved and based on mutual agreement. The value of these contracts - for illustration, in 2000 this contract and this contract [[...]] [[?]] sanctioned at 25 million 272 thousand, in 2001 24 million and in 2002 [[the contract is signed]] 25 million 175 thousand. All these contracts also have their report on the implementation of the contractual obligations. In addition, the Ministry shall co-finance each year the regional and state verification of first aid teams of civil protection and shall then be specifically defined. With regard to the supervision carried out by this Ministry, I can declare that the supervision is carried out by the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for the protection against natural and other disasters, but within the specified contractual relationship on the tasks performed by the Red Cross for that office in its composition. The supervision of the other business, of course, is not within the competence of this ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u174	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Aurelio Juri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u175	Thank you, Vice President. I am referring to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I am sorry that it is not the Minister, but I think the Secretary of State, Mr Žbogar, will respond accordingly. It has been a year since the adoption of the Act on the Global Protection of the Slovenian National Community in Italy. Its implementation was foreseen, as we all know, by a diary that was due to begin to unravel in September last year, but we also know that this did not happen. Both the Prime Minister and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, in talks with Prime Minister Berlusconi and his current Foreign Minister Ruggier, and with other representatives of the Italian Government, have received assurances that the law will be implemented in a satisfactory and timely manner and have also made reassuring statements. September has long passed, and Valentine's Day has passed, when, after Berlusconi's last assurances, the implementation of the law, with the appointment of a parity committee, but instead, the Slovenian minority and all the democratic public of the substitute have waited for the replacement, as we know, for themselves, the "anti-life decree" of the internal minister on the introduction of monolingual cards in bilingual Krasic municipalities. Last week, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, when ratifying the cultural agreement with Austria, repeatedly stressed how Slovenia protects the rights of its minorities abroad. I therefore ask the Ministry: How does the Italian government comment on this? Has our government already warned of delays and deviations from promises made and commitments made? And how does our government intend to proceed in the future so that the expectations of foreigners regarding the protection law can be realized? So, what can the government and, on behalf of it, the foreign ministry tell the minorities in Furlania-Julia that they will feel that the mother is really protecting them or caring for their situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Following the mandate of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, we will be presented with the opinion of the Ministry of State Secretary, Mr Samuel Žbogar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs fully agrees with the assessments you have made, Mr Member, on the unacceptable situation when the protection law, which was adopted last year in the Italian Parliament, is still not implemented, in particular the Parity Committee has not yet been set up. You pointed out that instead they had recently been received, or minorities had been surprised by the introduction of monolingual identity cards. Our ministry agrees that the situation of the Slovenian minority in Italy is deteriorating. With such surprises as last, there was only one in a row. Remember, months ago, it was an Italian country - there were problems around the censuses in the Slovenian language, the problem of financing Slovenian institutions, minorities, and the last thing is around these ID cards. If I first say about the identity cards that the foreign ministry reacted immediately and repeatedly spoke to the Italian ambassador and expressed to him the opposition of Slovenia to such a decision by the internal minister of Italy that in the four municipalities of the market province, identity cards can be issued only in Italian. At the end of January, the Ministry also made a protest note pointing out that the measure referred to by a specific minister is contrary to bilateral and international agreements which say that the acquired minority rights must not be reduced. We have also protested through the ambassador to Rome, and our ministry has not yet received a response. The measure itself is not being implemented at the moment because, at the request of the mayors of the four municipalities, the Prefect of Commerce accepted the proposal to freeze implementation, and thus, on 12 February, it did not begin to take place by issuing uniform identity cards, but it was frozen until the decision of the Court or the Regional Administrative Court to deal with the complaint of the Slovenian Community, which is scheduled to take place in the following days. So much for activities for ID cards where - I would say - the foreign ministry is in constant contact with the Slovenian minority and will continue with activities, all with the aim of abolishing this measure. As far as the broader question is concerned, what does the foreign ministry or government do to help the minority? I think that I can confirm that the government will continue to be the foreign ministry, in cooperation with the Slovenian minority in return, to keep reminding the Italian Government of the obligations arising from it, both from its internal law and from the law referred to in the bilateral agreements and from international agreements. At the same time, the Slovenian minority itself in Italy is increasingly using the instruments available to it, both within the framework of domestic law and in Italian citizens, as well as in the next instance - and the institutions of international organisations are also available. Thus, the Slovenian government and the foreign ministry will continue to draw attention to this problem in all their discussions with Italian interlocutors and draw the Italian side's attention to the fulfilment of the obligations to which it has committed itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u178	Thank you very much. A supplementary question, Mr. Aurelio, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u179	Thanks for the answer. I would like to point out that the individual representatives of the Slovenian minority point out that at the time of the creation of the law itself, when the law was in the Italian Parliament, the Slovenian government was significantly under more pressure on the Italian government than it is now when the implementation of the law is at the hands of the government. I believe that many measures are being carried out in the sense of pressure, but I think it would be correct - I am taking the initiative of the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister, that, of course, in the spirit of "good filling" and the good relationship you have shown with the Prime Minister and the Foreign Minister of Italy, who is the same person at the moment, they are writing him a letter, politely, friendlyly, and drawing his attention to the commitments you have made. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-19-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, since Mr Sok and Mrs Tisovic are no longer among us, and Mrs Ana Marija has given up the question of Parliament, allow me to thank the representatives and representatives of the government very much for the answers given. I'm adjourning the meeting. We'll continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. We will begin by addressing item 1a of the agenda, this is the continuation of the procedure for setting up municipalities and determining their areas, and then by continuing to discuss the agenda further - a clear agenda you received today at the table. Thank you all so much and good night.
