ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u1	Please insert the voting cards into the voting devices. Dear colleagues, fellow Members, Members, ladies and gentlemen! I ask for peace and order in the hall. Please take your seats. I say hello to everything! I begin the 15th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure. I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues are not with us today due to their reasonable absence. These are colleagues Kontič, Gaber, Simšič, Bevk, Battelli, Dr. Bernik, Peterle, Ašič, Pukšič, Kavtičnik, Barovic, Beumann, Juban, Germič, Partljič, Spindler colleague Partljič is here, colleague Spindler and for the beginning of the meeting colleague Švagan. Please insert the voting cards into the voting devices. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're picking up the presence in the hall! I find there are 47 colleagues and colleagues present. I also welcome among us the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, including those who will join us below. Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will also proceed with the adoption of the minutes of the 13th meeting and of the 15th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. The logs are available on the computer network. I ask my colleagues whether any of you have a comment or a different opinion on the minutes. Since there are no comments to the minutes of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. We vote on the adoption of the minutes of the 13th session. We're in the middle of a vote. 52 in attendance, 37 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the minutes of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. In the absence of any comments to the minutes of the 15th extraordinary meeting, we are also taking a decision on the adoption of this minutes. We're voting. We are now voting on the minutes of the 15th extraordinary session. Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. Comrade Kacin, I think the focus has fallen. I will once again put to the vote the adoption of the minutes of the 15th extraordinary session. We're voting. Second, let us vote on the proposal to adopt the minutes of the 15th extraordinary meeting. We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall! 52 present, 41 for and 2 for. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the minutes of the 15th extraordinary meeting have been adopted. In this way, we can move on to the agenda of the 15th meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda with reference to 9 April this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First, we will move on to proposals for the withdrawal of individual items from the agenda. I would like to recall that, on the basis of an agreement with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, I have already announced in the meeting that I will propose to the assembly the withdrawal of those agenda items which will not be ready for consideration at the assembly meeting until the agenda is set. I take it that they do not comply with the conditions set out in paragraphs 12, 13, 15 and 30. I would like to inform you that the withdrawal of the 13th point was also proposed by my colleague Peca. I propose that we discuss all the proposals together, and, of course, after the discussion has been concluded, we will vote individually on the withdrawal of any proposal. Do the rapporteurs want a word first? [[They don't want to.]] Does he want a word with a government representative? [[I guess not.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Neither do I.]] I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak. Since no one wants to discuss it, I'm crossing the Collegiate Podobnik, please. [[...]] Peace in the hall! The SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President! I think it's going too fast past this business option, getting out of the agenda. If I have seen correctly, all four points, 12, 13, 15 and 30, are linked to the work of the Committee on Internal Policy and Justice, which is very burdensome. But between these points, some were said to have a special priority in our colleges or in our work talks. And I think it's the law on local elections, and above all point 15, the law on political parties, and if we don't put them in today, they'll probably not be listed until next month. I don't know if we're going to make the right decision here, Mr President. I would suggest that each point be decided individually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u3	We will vote on each point individually. My proposal was of an extremely procedural nature, in accordance with the agreements we concluded at the meeting of the leaders of the groups of Members. There we said that if the conditions were not met, I would suggest a withdrawal. That's what I did. Members and Members will vote on whether or not you agree with this proposal. My friend Patch, would you like a word? Please, the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. We agree with the President of the National Assembly that due to the procedural shortcomings of the points mentioned above, they support the proposed withdrawal, i.e. the withdrawal from the agenda. In addition, I think that, as a guide for all Members and Members, colleagues and colleagues, decisions on individual points of withdrawal should also lead to the question of the meaning of content. We are confident in the Slovenian National Party, and we also call on you to support, support the President's proposal on the withdrawal of the 13th point, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on local elections, where it would be reasonable for the mother's working body to give its position, the changes proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, to intervene significantly in the motherhood of local communities and to interfere in the functioning of local communities, particularly with the active and passive electoral rights of foreigners. We must be aware that the municipal councils, which have so far been regarded in Slovenian legislation as the exclusive right of Slovenian citizens, have been breached by this proposed dictatorship or, according to our assessment, all the business and moral rules applicable to the functioning of local communities have been violated. It is that the local authorities, the municipal councils are the highest authorities and that we move away from the concept of local self-government if we leave the right of decision within all the rights and duties of each local community to those who did not live in these local communities. I propose that we support the proposals made by Mr Pahor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u5	Let me inform the National Assembly that, irrespective of today's decision by colleagues and colleagues, in the event that they decide to postpone, I will do everything in my power to deal with the laws relating to the conduct of local elections at the latest at the next meeting. That's clear. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will conclude the debate and vote on each withdrawal individually. First of all, I will put to the vote the proposal to withdraw from the agenda the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on local self-government, which is point 12. We're voting. We're voting on the withdrawal. We're in the middle of a vote, peace in the hall. The proposal was adopted. 44 out of 54, 4 voted against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I propose to vote that the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on local elections be withdrawn from the agenda. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 57 present, 48 to, 3 to. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. I propose to vote that the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on political parties be withdrawn from the agenda. We're voting. Peace in the hall. We're voting. Attention, please. 55 present, 45 in, 3 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I note that we have also adopted this proposal. I propose to vote that the draft law on amendments and additions to the General Administrative Procedure Act be withdrawn from the agenda. We're voting. Peace, we're in the middle of a vote. 52 present, 45 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against two.]] I note that we have also accepted this motion for withdrawal. I don't have any other motions for withdrawal. Would anyone like to propose a withdrawal, besides those who have already been voted on? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to extensions. For elections, appointments and administrative matters, the Commission proposes to extend the agenda by proposing a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask, does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by proposing a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Please vote. We decide to extend the agenda. Every time we set the agenda, there are still lively consultations in the parliamentary groups. I understand that, but I'd like you to understand, too, that I have to conduct a meeting at the right concentration. I will once again put to the vote a proposal by the Commission for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs to extend the agenda by proposing a candidate for the Vice-President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? 57 present, 52 for and no one against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that we have adopted a proposal to extend the agenda. I have not received any other proposals for extending the agenda. Would anyone like to propose an extension to the sitting itself? [[Nobody.]] Then the National Assembly will move on to a decision on the proposals for a rapid procedure. The National Assembly adopted proposals for the adoption of a bill on postal services, a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on defence, a bill amending the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, and finally a proposal for a law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network following a rapid procedure at its 14th session, and therefore no longer has to be decided on. We are now making proposals for a rapid procedure within this meeting. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on administrative fees. The government proposes that we adopt it quickly and ask the government representative whether he wants a word. [[No, no, ……]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Secretariat? Emissary groups? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on legal fees be adopted in a rapid manner. We're voting. We are in the middle of voting for a proposal to deal with it quickly. 61 present. 46 for, 8 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law on the property transformation of insurance companies. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. I'm asking the government representative if he wants a word. I guess not. The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? Emissary groups? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal that the proposal for a law on the real estate transformation of insurance companies be adopted in a rapid manner. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal for a rapid procedure. 56 present, 43 for, 7 versus. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the use of the funds derived from the purchase on the basis of the Law on the Property Transformation of Enterprises. I ask the Government whether it wishes to present this proposal? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? I'm asking other qualified speakers, do they want a word? Then we will decide on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal for a rapid procedure. 56 present, 45 for, 7 versus. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have thus concluded decisions on the rapid procedure and are moving on to short-term decisions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the trade law for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body agrees with the proposal. Does the rapporteur want a word? Do other qualified speakers want a word? I conclude the debate and, as is usually the case with a reduced procedure, I would like to point out that the proposal for the adoption of a law will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Now we're voting. We are voting on the proposal for a shorter procedure. Present 57, 45 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the required majority has been adopted. I think we can move on to a full decision on the draft agenda. I propose today's agenda session, as you have received by reference, with amendments adopted and additions. I'm putting the motion to a vote. Please make a full statement on the draft agenda. Peace in the hall! 55 present, 43 for, 4 versus. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that the agenda for the 15th meeting of the assembly has been adopted. Before I order a recess and allow the government and its President to arrive at the 1st item of the agenda, let me inform you that I have convened an extraordinary meeting tomorrow at 4:00 and 30 minutes. This seemed the most sensible decision given that our guest, Pat Cox, will be President of the European Parliament this afternoon. This is a remarkable visit, of course, so we have allowed ourselves to organise it in the middle of a parliamentary session. This was also his desire to come at a time when Parliament is sitting and has the opportunity to address the National Assembly. That's what he's gonna do tomorrow. He wants to meet with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. After the end of this interview, we would like to refer to the Government's request for an extraordinary meeting. Then we will continue with the agenda. In the morning, of course, we normally start work, continuing the session. I'll call it off at 1:00, then we'll pick it up at 4:30. You have probably seen that, for tomorrow, on Wednesday at 18:00, after we had concluded the session, if we had not made different decisions, a brief reception to congratulate our colleague Peterlet and colleague Jakic for the important recognitions they received by appointing them for important positions in parliamentary diplomacy. And then we'll continue our work normally. On Tuesday, we would have elections and appointments and also elect our new vice-president. We will also agree, as I promised the college, when we will consider the point proposed by the youth party's parliamentary group, a proposal to call for a previous referendum. We would consult on this at the beginning of next week when we see how many agenda items we have been able to deliver. Now I'd like to suspend the session by 3 p.m. and 30 minutes. That is exactly when we begin the continuation of the 15th session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u6	Ambassadors and Members, I invite you to step out of the lobby into the grand hall of the National Assembly. We will continue the 15th meeting of the National Assembly. We'll move on to one. A TIME OF DAY, THESE ARE QUESTIONS AND CONTRACTS AND MESSAGES. In order to allow the session to begin, of course, I invite the President of the Government and his minister and ministers to the large debate room. Colleagues and colleagues, I will determine the presence in the hall. Please insert the voting cards into the voting devices. Please, if you are seated in your seats, I also invite representatives of the government to take their seats in the Chamber. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're in the middle of finding out who's here. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There are 51 Members and Members present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I received written applications for questions sent and initiatives within the deadline of one day before the meeting. The order for asking questions and initiatives is laid down in accordance with the last paragraph of Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, so that the first three questions or initiatives are posed by members of the opposition, and then by a number of Members from different parliamentary groups, by order of notification. The order for asking the first three questions and initiatives is in line with the agreement of the opposition parliamentary groups, taking into account the principle of fluctuation. The oral question or initiative should not last more than three minutes, and I would like to remind you of our agreement, which we have last held, that only one question must and should be asked. As a rule, ministers must not be answered for more than ten minutes and I thank you in advance for the kindness of the government representatives. The Member's supplementary question shall not be more than two minutes. The first three parliamentary questions will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovšek, whom I welcome in our midst. The first question is raised by Comrade Victory Jelinčič. You have the floor, Comrade Jelinčič. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Nice hello to you all! Mr Drnovšek, the government has been knowingly deceiving the public, the legislative body and the constitutional court for several years, repeating that tenants of denationalised apartments have been insured under the current law and that it intends to further consolidate their position. With empty promises, you deceive people and, on the other hand, the ministry is insidiously preparing a new, so-called housing law, whereby denationalized tenants will be able to get on the road today, and for the rest of the minority a much worse hell is being prepared than the ten-year period spent by ten-year-old ten-year-old ten-year renters. Many calls to solve the problem are not answered at all, but allow the Ministry of the Environment, under the name "residential", to write a new denationalisation law that prepares a definitive solution for 4,000 rental families in denationalized apartments. Where do you plan to settle 4,000 families that will be driven out of longtime homes by contractors preparing a final solution? Why are you not dealing with domestic problems, Mr Drnovšek, but have a nice talk about Nate and the European Union? Do you really think that unresolved social problems will not be of interest to European officials with whom you like to smile? What do you intend to do with those families that have been demolished by denationalists and congregations in the last ten years, with the consent and assistance of the State, have already been thrown out of their homes just so that the denationalized can be enriched by homes that have been renovated and maintained for decades by evicted tenants? What has already happened to many tenants in denationalized homes and what threatens the majority after the new draft of the apartment law has been seen and experienced by the expulsion of Jews from their homes into Nazi Germany. In Slovenia, the Quizlings and the invaders' helpers are returning their assets, and they are standing above the tenants as if they were the only representatives of the former communist regime. I believe that you do not understand the problems of endangered families, since you have conveniently resolved your housing issue by buying a protocol villa in Murgle under the Jasbinski Law. How, though, will citizens view the fact that, in parallel with preparing a law that will make an additional 4,000 families for the homeless, on the other hand, you are changing the law on the Triglav National Park to build a new villa near Lake Bohinj?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u9	Dear Mr. Jelinčič! Dear Members and Members! The Act on Denationalisation was passed in the Slovenian Parliament in 1991. So, even before the start of action, not only this national council, but also any government I've run. This act of denationalisation has, if I may say so, been given as a fact since my first government. One fact that the National Assembly then tried to change, correct, improve, after various initiatives, but the Constitutional Court has annulled various such initiatives. And even if I simplify it, I find that it can't be changed anymore and that it's just the way it is. The government is therefore facing significant problems throughout this period. On the one hand, it is under pressure from denationalisation beneficiaries who want a faster return, although this is often very difficult. This is a conflict of various interests, various historical facts, which are then resolved in various processes for a long time, according to the belief of many for too long. However, it is objectively a complex process. On the other hand, it is justified to pressure those tenants or tenants in these apartments who were unable to participate in a housing law that was also adopted at that time in 1991, even before any government I myself led. From this point of view, they are justifiably seeking to resolve their housing situation. In all these years, we've been looking for different solutions to help them. The fact is, they stayed in their apartments. But it is true that we are constantly searching and working and looking for solutions that are better than present and temporary solutions. Such a solution or the current attempt to resolve this problem is indeed being prepared by the Ministry of the Environment - the Minister of the Environment is here and can further explain, if necessary - a new law that is not yet in the government procedure is being prepared in this Ministry. So, I repeat, there is a rather complex legal issue, including the economic issue, one of those transition issues, this transition, which has been created objectively and we are trying to resolve objectively in the best possible way. But of course, it's completely incorrect of your insinuation of my apartment, which has never been protacory, or even less, luxurious apartment. It's a pretty modest thing you can look at if you want. I find that I am one of those participants in the transition who did not in any way enrich themselves in this transition. On the contrary, quite the opposite. I have no other properties, nothing, nothing, practically in the 10 years of running the Slovenian government. The only thing I got out of it was worse health. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, would you like a further question? It has to be the same question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Republic of Slovenia, by means of a denationalisation law in 1991, introduced slavery when the tenants, former housing rights holders, together with their families, were handed over to the property of foreigners and the church. However, for 10 years your government, Mr President, is working under your tactics, it should actually produce some results. You've been pretending for decades now that everything is fine and fine. You have left the fate of citizens to vengeful denationalists, who for decades have been living on innocent people, who, by their free will, can move from one apartment to another, who can enter their homes whenever they want, and who determine with whom and how long the tenants will live. I don't know, but all you really care about is your commodities when you buy the most expensive bird in the world. In the previous regime, the most expensive bird in Yugoslavia was Titov Galeb, today, it seems, is your Falcon, which at a price significantly exceeds Tito's Galeb. Instead of solving the hardships of Slovenian citizens and their problems, I have a strong feeling that you care only for yourself. And because, in the Slovenian National Party, we feel that the issue outlined is too pressing to be pushed away between the new Mercedes, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request a discussion on the government's response to the question raised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Would you like to reply now, Mr President, or would you like to take advantage of the 15-minute opportunity to respond to my colleague Jelinčič? Therefore, on the basis of Rule 29(2) of the Rules of Procedure, at the request of at least ten Members or Members' Group, I am now holding a debate on the Government's response, which has already been given by the Prime Minister. We are moving on to a debate on the government's response, i.e. at the initiative of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group. I give the floor to the representative of the applicant of the request. You have a 15-minute window, and the Prime Minister with his associates. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Drnovšek, I am interested in how we would act if we were in a position to take your home and put it in the hands of someone who, because of living in their apartment, would pour out on you all the rage and hatred of the former system and publicly mark you as a "communist bitch" and a "buster of loot". These are quotes from Del, and I downloaded some other information from the daily newspaper. Former collaborators, then sworn Marxists, today self-declared capitalists publicly call on each other to hire detectives to help evict tenants who will stalk the tenants at every turn. Again, others with professional expatriators enter the homes of tenants and are forced into exile with their families. To the tenants, Mr Jože Novak, State Secretary from the Ministry of Environment and Space, recommends services of a politicised judicial system. The bullying is being carried out by fascist doctrine and managed to get on the road in the last ten years, to Poland, to Begunje and other madhouses, to a cemetery, to urban robbery and homeless shelters for more than half the tenants. And now the denationalists have decided on a new housing law in which the final solution has been prepared by Mrs Barbara Starič Strajnar, State Undersecretary of State. This law is similar to the final solution in Kosovo, in fact, from the secret official letter on the formation of lagers, which you, as President of the SFRJ Presidency, have actually signed, Mr Prime Minister. The fact that my claims are not exaggerated speaks of the placement of a tenant from Maribor. The owner was under the pretext of renovating the apartment, entering the apartment in her absence, completely emptying it, taking everyone, including personal belongings, into warehouses outside the city. He used her personal items, documents, drawers, and the like. And when the tenant called the police, they found there was a suspicion of a crime, but they didn't stop it, and the owner of the house didn't get punished. The Maribor District Court made a record of how the owner renovated the apartment. The apartment was completely demolished and impossible for the apartment and since then the tenant has been living in a room in another location that is too small for her to carry her things. The Court further ordered her to pay a judicial expert to determine whether the apartment could be taken into its original condition after two years. Such cases, which have so far taken place in the same way and only after the silent landing of your elbows and the so-called independent judiciary, have been legalised by the lady, the Undersecretary of State, in the proposal for a new housing law. For ten years the ten - year period for ten ten ten - year period for ten ten - year period for ten ten - year period for ten ten - year - olds have been writing public letters, commenting, asking for meetings, and you and your ministers are buzzing at it. You are engaged in the purchase of a luxury plane, while all of you pointed to Tudjman years ago and mocked the snobbery of Croats, of course, despite all of Tudjman's aircraft was significantly cheaper than yours. Do you really think, Mr. Drnovšek, that it is possible to play with human lives, with the hardship of people and also with the money of taxpayers indefinitely? The Slovenians did not vote in favour of the country that would take their home, but voted in favour of the democratic and legal state, which is not currently under your leadership. By denationalizing the tenants of these apartments you have taken away human dignity, now you intend to take away their naked existence. Why does the new apartment marriage make all the rental relationships worse? Perhaps so that the gentlemen who bought the apartments under the Law of Jasbinska could pay the latter unlimitedly for twice the annual rent they paid for those apartments? Or perhaps in order to cover up the real purpose of the new housing law with the overall deterioration of the rent - to sweep tenants from denationalized apartments. Under the new law, you legitimize the right of tenants to enter the tenant's apartment at any time, to legalize the arrangements whereby a denationalised person as master of his "slave" will decide with whom the hateful tenant may live and how many children he may have. That's the kind of method Hitler knew. The security guaranteed for tenants is, in fact, an obvious lie. Just one example is when one of the many ten-year-old ten-year-old ten-year-old ten-year-old ten-year-old ten-year-old ten-year-old ten-year-olds has had three trials and seven more trials. Whoever pays, that's nobody's business. Certainly, Mr Drnovšek, you will not pay for this, or perhaps the writers of the denationalisation law, or perhaps Mr Rob, who is having problems filling the budget, and therefore sells the bank, privatises everything possible, sells the ironworks, Telekom and what else I know, but at the same time, Mr Drnovšek, the country is buying a parade plane at your command. Another case from Ljubljana, an example of a tenant who has been sleeping in a car for a month because the owner has illegally filed it. You really think the tenants are safe? I think it's a rude mockery from the citizens. Mr. Drnovšek, do you know what happens to denationalized property after you return it to the denationalized? An example in one of the houses that was returned to the descendants of former collaborators in Ljubljana. Before denationalization, this house was home to five families. Immediately after the adoption of your denationalisation law, the House ended up with a voice that this Mrs. Debenjak, a descendant of former collaborators, would throw on the road and who would not. After the return of the house in the nature of the lady concerned and her relatives, the first family was evicted to a place where she fell apart because of the impossible housing situation. Another example from the same house. An elderly widow was forced to leave her home and go to a nursing home because of constant pressure. Today this apartment is being handed over to strangers. The third tenant from the same house was moved out and for almost a year as a homeless person moved from Ljubljana from room to room. Come in. One of the tenants was taken by the lady, with effective fascist receptions, to a disease and then to a psychiatric hospital, and today she is suing her son for emigration. Dear Mr. Drnovšek! Do you know that Article 2 of the Slovenian Constitution states that we are a legal and social state. You are always and unconditionally prepared to host European dignitaries with whom you like to chat and plant flowers with them. On the other hand, the pilgrims showed obedience to the plight of ten - year - olds throughout their ten - year reign. It's a strange attitude towards democracy. After all, this is about human rights that are supposed to be sacred. In explanation of the new denationalisation law, it was calculated that 28 billion tolars would be needed for a just solution to the problem. And you're saying there's no funds for that in the budget. At the same time, you are more or less willing to increase your annual budget to include in NATO, where no smart Slovenian wants to. Plus, you're buying a plane that goes up the price every day. On Saturday this plane cost 14.6 billion tolars, as of Sunday 15 billion. What a price we don't know yet. A plane that costs as much as the new Krka drug factory, which employs 150 people and will be paid in a year. How many people are hiring your plane, Mr. Prime Minister? All Slovenes. And when will it be worth it? Never. Mr. Drnovshek! Do you still hope to claim that your government does not lie and that it does not act alone? I'd like to give the word to my colleague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u14	Please. I would like to point out that a question has been raised and the proposed consideration under Article 29, paragraph 2, has been given to one question. Only one question is the subject of consideration. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u15	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I must say that we are sorry for your deteriorating health status. But I'm sure it's not a place or a time to discuss it. It is right, however, that we are discussing what has triggered the Victory of Jelinčič in its substantive question. It's about housing issues. The housing law itself, which is approaching today, dates back to 1991. In 1991, the Slovenian government tried or began to introduce customerism into our country in approximately or within the same content as today. That notion you gave up at the beginning of this year. Between 1991 and so far, we've changed the law three times. There have been some decisions by the Constitutional Court, as you have rightly determined, and a huge initiative before the Constitutional Court. Which suggests that this matter is solely the product of political will. So through the four-time amendment of the law and through the decision of the Constitutional Court. On the other hand, all the initiatives that have come to the Constitutional Court to clarify individual cases show that this law should only be a matter for the provision of housing conditions. But let it go in order. The law drafted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or more specifically, by the Ministry of Environment and Space, is one of those laws that should strictly respect constitutionality and that social note. Social note because this law determines where people will live, how people will live, and in the first phase they should, unfortunately not, how Slovenians will live. But from the very explanation that your minister, Minister Kopač, has also signed, comes what the purpose of this law is. It is noted that the law is not written on the basis of a Directive of the European Union. In the second sentence, you stress, and here I will quote: "The bill contains provisions that align citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with EU citizens in two areas. In particular, in obtaining a social and non-profit apartment". With us, in our country where we have a major housing problem, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to equalise Slovenian citizens and citizens of the European Union. And you don't even ask yourself about the standard, the height of the purchasing power and the like. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has decided to align Slovenian citizens with the citizens of the European Union in obtaining favourable housing loans from the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm sorry, we don't seem to have much sense and damage for this country that we all need to know about or should be aware that this is our only country. And that the creators of this country are also citizens. Unless we offer our citizens the right conditions for life, and in this case those who are outside of all of us are also considered by wages. This law will not tange us who have a salary of 500 000 nets and higher ones, especially those who have an irregular housing issue. In the field of non-profit housing and social housing. However, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia behaves in black and white, which is also a proposal, a proposal for a law, as if it did not care about these citizens. As if I wanted to wipe that quota off my face as soon as possible, let's say to this poor guy in our country. Mr Drnovšek, ladies and gentlemen of the Slovenian Government, we are all taxpayers. From the taxpayer's money you take the funds for NATO, which go beyond the housing needs, you take the money for this notorious plane, which would also enable you to solve the half of the housing problems that we are talking about today, as described by Victory Jelinčič, about those 4,000 denationalised tenants who will be under the new law, according to the law that you will propose to us for admission and treatment, staying on a much worse foot than they are today. The vast majority of them will remain on the road, as long as, of course, they reach those rich and, according to our assessment, mainly foreigners, especially those who have shown where they have national consciousness, during the national liberation army, if they do not bow down, they too will remain on the road. The law itself is incomprehensible, it is horrifying, and in the Slovenian National Party, we propose to you again today that you, for a change from your masters, at least by Members or at the very least by your government cabinet, support the idea that last week, your Members, took a hike on the Committee on the Economy - that is, that extra money intended for luxury, which should mirror or reflect the image of the Slovenian government, will be allocated to housing of almost 15 billion Slovenian Tolars. You didn't think it was worth thinking about, or it wasn't worth it for your Members to attend a meeting of the Economic Committee until the end, where it would be decided that we would spend money to solve economic problems. Mr Drnovšek, this is an initiative, we sincerely hope that you will accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I now make 15 minutes available for the reply of the Prime Minister and ministers and ministers to his mandate. Mr. Prime Minister, who will answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u17	A few words about this, Minister Kopač, on this issue. Well, Mr Jelinčič, Mr Pece, I think that your debate is just one of the lower surpluses, if I may say so, or the lower points reached by this Parliament in the last decade. I am sorry that the purchase of a state aircraft, not a government one, but a state aircraft, has given so much room for so many primitive insinuations, demagogies and for such a reduction in the general debate in this country and for such a reduction in some cultural, political dialogue. From this point of view, I must admit that this is beyond expectations and that the reasons that were clear, justified, for the purchase of an aircraft, in this light, of course, appear to be weak and obviously not solid enough. Realizing that, I had already initiated activities to find another solution or to withdraw from that aircraft. I am counting on these activities to deliver results in the short term, because the simple level or level of these debates that this is causing has become impossible for any government, not just for that. As for all these speeches about the injustices that this is causing, I would remind you, because you are looking so enthusiastically into the past, that even before the independence of the Republic of Slovenia, the then Republic of Slovenia had two Lear Jet aircraft, which were very modern and robust at the time, at the type of aircraft in the then federation. Despite the fact that the Republic was not a country at the time and had a significantly smaller need for international contacts than the State itself had. But of course, this is not essential and in recent weeks I have learned that there is no point in talking rationally about this problem, because it is irrational. Of course, it was interesting to hear this debate about the law on denationalisation, as if the fact that the law had been passed 11 years ago in the then Parliament, with obvious concerns, which then also appeared in the performance phase of the coming years, that the reading of this law to the current government, which was not then and with this law has nothing, except that it must adhere to legality and bring it into practice that, of course, it is totally inappropriate. For years we have been trying to solve things, to mitigate them, to enforce the legal obligation of denationalisation in one way, because we are a rule of law and, of course, the government has no other option than to adhere to laws. On the other hand, to seek solutions for tenants in these denationalised issues. I would like to ask Minister Kopač to say a few words about the law or these latest initiatives and searches. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u18	Mr. Minister Mag. The digger. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u19	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that, like the Prime Minister, I have been stabbed by several statements in your speech. But most of all, I was stabbed when you said that the Ministry of Environment and Space was insidiously preparing a proposal for a new housing law. We have decided to make this law as transparent as possible and even put the draft law on the Internet so that everyone can see it. Of course, you quoted things from the Internet. This bill has not yet been dealt with by the government, and you are now making your views up to the Prime Minister, who represents the government here. This is not a government act yet, and this reaction of yours makes me think that we're going to be doing laws more in a closed circle later on, so that such readers, who then maliciously abuse what the Ministry is trying to do transparently, would not abuse them in this way. Otherwise, the problem you were talking about, some data or some numbers. Your insinuations were completely unwarranted. According to the Denationalisation Act, about 4,570 apartments occupied by tenants or former tenants of housing rights are expected to be returned when they are completed, according to our estimate. Following the cut-off on 30.6. last year, such cases were 3,843. Well, the existing housing law has Article 125, which provides for two models for the resolution of these problems, where it stimulates tenants and owners of denationalized apartments to agree and together find a solution whereby either the tenant or the owner is evicted, that is, the one who gets the apartment returned in the denationalisation process, abandons this apartment and collects some appropriate amount, in short, and leaves that right to the tenant. On the basis of this existing 125th Article, 1,430 cases have already been resolved after the 30.6. cut-off last year following an assessment of how things are moving and 2,740 will be resolved by the end of the denationalisation law process. So, the whole country still has the problem of the difference between 4,570 and 2,740, so about 1,830 approximately, to think of - 1,830 apartments will remain the problem you spoke of as the problem of this nation. And let me tell you the following facts. The average rent in these apartments, denationalized apartments, is, due to a special marriage bonus, about, I really do say about, a little less than 15,000 tolars a month. The average rent, for example, in non-profit apartments of a newer date, which is especially high because of the special formula in the existing housing law, is 32,000 tolars, and is both a non-profit apartment; if we are talking about the same square, someone pays 15,000 or less and someone pays 32,000, and both are called non-profit. The new proposal of the housing law that we are preparing and you probably read on the Internet - you say that we are preparing it in reverse - but it assumes that a single formula for calculating non-profit rent will, of course, mean that those who pay very little non-profit rent will probably pay something higher, but on the other hand, the law also sets out a proposal for subsidisation or a formula for subsidising all those who are in any way socially threatened. Now it was given in some way, if I may say, a subsidy on the line, the whole group, whether they were rich or poor. Then, if this is accepted by the government and later in Parliament, we intend to grant subsidies to those who are entitled to the subsidy after social status, according to the criteria adopted by Parliament. Well, and, of course, speaking in the way you have presented it here is completely inappropriate, and after all, it would be very correct for all other Members to have a proposal for a law before you, perhaps this debate would be appropriate at the first reading of a bill in Parliament. A few more numbers. If some wanted the state or municipalities — pardon, not the state — to pay the difference between the non-profit rent that would be appropriate for the normal maintenance of buildings and the one actually paid by those in denationalized apartments would cost the congregation a billion 126 million per year. And if we wanted to replace this manna with some new apartments, it would cost 28 billion dollars in one stroke, which is, of course, the amount that this country cannot. And when you were talking about how these tenants are going to be dumped on the road and stuff. The bill does not provide for such a thing. No change, only one additional reason for cancellation is added if the person who resides in a non-profit apartment is talking about the one who has been returned in the denationalisation process or another if he has another apartment. It also happens in denationalized apartments that individual tenants who pay very low rent in this apartment, in fact, pay this apartment for a very profitable rent, pardon, that they themselves have their own apartment, which they rent for a profitable rent and, of course, they live in a non-profit apartment. That seems inappropriate to us. This is happening both in denationalized apartments and in newer apartments given by the congregations to nonprofit renters. In the draft law, we foresee further stimulation of the country to resolve the problem of conflict between tenants in denationalised apartments and owners, denationalising beneficiaries even more quickly. The formula in the existing 125th article, based on the value of the point, is short-circuited, now the point is worth about 4 mark by old, and now it is supposed to be just over 5 in this proposal, and by 25 percent we are increasing the resources of the country to stimulate the resolution of this conflict. We also expect that in due course, for about five years, we will try to resolve those 1,830 cases that will remain open with state aid. This is the purpose of the proposal for a housing law, which, of course, you will still consider in the ordinary procedure and then give your opinion on it. At this point, when you don't have the lyrics in front of you, and you don't have the Prime Minister after all, it's totally inappropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Mr Prime Minister, you want to give someone else a word or that is the government's answer. Thank you very much. I invite Member groups to speak if they so wish. Each one has 5 minutes. Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Group of the Joint List of Social Democrats, Group of the Social Democratic Party. After this order, I'll give you a chance for five-minute performances. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u21	Thanks again for saying that. Mr Drnovšek, how do you allow me and my fellow Member to be denied primitiveism? Maybe someone in this country, including you, is calling our mode of communication primitive. And we call your actions primitive.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u22	I suggest we put that away. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u23	In this country you have charged every citizen with over 600,000 Slovenian tolars. But that's not what you're dealing with. You're selling all the property of the country. But that's not what you're dealing with. You're not waiting for suggestions, you're not doing anything. You're running this country after one and the same hooves. And when you're being listened to like that, you're giving arguments as to how well we're doing. If we listen to Mr. Kopač, there is no housing problem in this country at all. Instead of saying, as Prime Minister, it is right that members of the Slovenian National Party have raised the issue of housing, it is right to talk about it, and it is even more right to find a means of money for it," but no. On the easiest line, you do what is typical of the Slovenian government, who is not against you, discredit it. In all your replies so far, you have used, during this term, that we Members of the Slovenian National Party are being populist. Mr. Drnovshek! What is populism about trying to do these citizens something good? If we're against customerism and we're looking you in the eye at buying a very expensive plane? However, you must probably have so much credibility yourself that you realize that the moves taken by this government, in the good field of the steps you are taking, are wrong and harmful to this country. You support foreign acquisitions. You're restricting domestic competition. You sell Slovenian companies, you owe citizens, you buy luxury funds and there are also these things. At the very least, what you would expect is for you to apologize for characterizing us in this way right now. Be that good and admit the government's mistake. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u24	Before I give Mr Ptræ to the representative of the United List of Members, let me say that we are all bound by the rule that we do not qualify our interlocutors, even if we do not agree with them, with the qualifications that he or she might consider offensive. This applies to all of us in this debate. Comrade Run, you have the floor for five minutes. You'll be followed by a fellow magician. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr Prime Minister, ministers! I will only talk about issues of housing law and related to denationalisation, because this was also an announced topic. Yesterday, not by chance, because this happens many times, two ladies came to the office. One over 85, one over 60. Both housing rights holders, formerly, of course, in denationalized apartments. Both of them were crying because they received a lawsuit unlawfully, in my opinion, for the waiver of housing rights because they did not pay the new owner an unjustifiable rent. Whether they believe that they will solve their problem or not - I tried to give them hope that they would solve it in court - I don't know, they were very, very shaken. And I have to say, not for the first time, with them. On this particular occasion, this country has not solved the problem of denationalisation of dwellings properly. It could have resolved it properly at the formal level, but it did not solve it properly at the actual level. However, I am not discussing whether it was due or not to return everything in nature to previous owners, and I could also have decided on this path. But if she had made up her mind, she could not have put herself in an unequal position before the law of those who, without their guilt, had not been granted a former social apartment and therefore had no right to ransom. However, the problems are serious because, most often in these cases, older people are also involved in the rights of ignorant people, most of them are people who do not have the resources to provide a lawyer as well, and, on the other hand, for people who have the property, who have the resources, who also have the power to take various measures within the house - the front door, the keys, I would say, the additional equipment and so on - they are also adaptable. I won't tell everyone, but there are cases like this. That's why it's not an equal situation here. It is true that most of these people receive formal correct answers that the law has regulated their right, even on a formal level, the rent has been insured so far, the possibility of cancellation does not exist, in fact, Mr Minister, colleague Kopač, matters are many times different. I would like to say that, for this reason, we made a lot of effort in the combined list, for the first time, five years ago to change the housing law, something small has been done, better than nothing, but in our opinion much less. As soon as we received the Ombudsman's warning, we proposed to four working bodies [[to the Committee on Petitions, the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment, the Internal Policy and the Committee on Labour, the Family, the Social Policy and the Disabled]] to address in the National Assembly the special report of the Ombudsman identifying the unconstitutional, illegal and socially difficult situation of these tenants. So far, only the petition committee has done so. We have our share of the mission, too. Mr Kopač knows, especially as a minister as a coalition party, that it is necessary to be extremely careful, even when amending the law, that the situation of tenants in denationalised apartments does not deteriorate, because we have also assessed that some proposals can go in this direction. The last part is just the next. There is a similar situation with regard to tenants in business premises and a similar situation with regard to solving the denationalisation problem in general. I agree with the Prime Minister in the work in which he notes that the law must be implemented today and that it cannot be amended today because more than two-thirds of the solutions have been adopted, but I do not agree with him that the time in which the Prime Minister is the Prime Minister was not for a better solution. We gave him our first suggestions in 1992 and since then we have been working on it, but very, very little or, unfortunately, almost nothing has been resolved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u26	Thank you very much. There's a colleague of mag's who's got the word. Vizjak, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. I will put my word behind him to my colleague Drobnič, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! The housing problem of denationalised tenants is only one of the problems that follow the general problem, this is the problem of denationalisation in Slovenia and the inadequacy of solving this process, especially as regards dynamics. Look, I can't agree with the Prime Minister's position that the responsibility is on the authority that was 11 years ago and that it was not possible to do anything later on in this area. I do not think that this is true because, while monitoring the dynamics of the implementation of the Denationalisation Act and in the face of the many problems that have arisen in the implementation of this regulation, it is the responsibility of the Government to follow these problems and to deal with them properly. That she was not able and was not able to solve them properly, we are also witnessing in this particular case, that is to say in the case of the problems of the tenants of denationalized apartments. This is one of the problems that is broader, that is the problem of denationalisation. I believe that this problem is also a problem of housing problems in Slovenia, in particular in urban centres or where the demand for these apartments is the highest. I cannot agree here that only denationalised beneficiaries are the only ones. What about young families? What about the socially endangered layers? These problems, too, and I think, are in a much larger dimension than the minister here presented as a problem for tenants of denationalized apartments. I estimate that this problem would be significantly easier to solve if the housing fund in Slovenia were larger, if, of course, it had been upgraded more appropriately in these ten years, which is headed by Prime Minister Janez Drnovšek. This would probably make it easier to solve the problem of these troubled 1,800s and several other apartments, as well as countless other problems, housing problems, again, young families and socially disadvantaged ones. It is a partial treatment of the broader problem, both of the housing policy problems in Slovenia and of the problem of too slow denationalisation, to which our party has repeatedly and regularly informed and asked competent government representatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Comrade Drobnič, you have the floor on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Does any other group then want a word? DeSUS Group of Ambassadors. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Honorable representatives of the government, dear colleagues and colleagues! On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, allow me to give an opinion or contribute to the debate on the issue of tenants in denationalised apartments. This issue has been lingering for a long time and, somehow, it also follows the issue of the return of denationalised dwellings. So this issue is somehow shared. As a member or as Chairman of the Commission on Petitions, I received a proposal from the initiators and the Commission on Petitions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia addressed this issue and also took some conclusions. Firstly, that the resolution so far was not appropriate; secondly, that it should give the initiative to adopt a new law where this issue would be settled in a dignified manner; and thirdly, with regard to proposals made by the Ombudsman also to the effect that some of his proposals are constitutionally controversial, they cannot interfere with property and some with the constitution of guaranteed rights, so some quick and unthinkable solutions should not be taken. Criticism has also been given to the existing scheme for the resolution of these. This country or government could be saved by a system of rental or social housing. We support the initiative to adopt a new law and that this initiative is being carried out in an open manner, as the government has now proposed. However, we stress the need to resolve this without any special preferences in order not to do wrong to others. There is also this problem mentioned by colleague Vizjak. In our country, there are categories of people, young families with low incomes, who do not have a solved housing issue and are also tenants in private apartments, with a weak right to rent. This issue needs to be addressed as soon as possible, but subject to legislation and constitutional provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. Please, Comrade Kebrich, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, ministers, colleagues and colleagues. All Members of Parliament are likely to receive many visits in our parliamentary offices, where we are facing this issue. In particular, I will stress that the Democratic Party of the Slovenian Retired at its congress has adopted a resolution on this issue. We are aware that, although not only in the vast majority, older people, including pensioners, pensioners, are particularly affected in one matter, and this is the amount of the rent. In these nationalised apartments, which have now been returned to owners in the process of denationalisation, owners behave differently. One is those who have a certain social sense and accept the kind of people they are, if they are older, let me be forgiven, what many have said to me, because many will no longer know how long they live, but then we will be able to treat rent with respect to the new tenants for renting the apartment differently. On the other hand, people who view only money as income, although they are also determined by a certain eligibility. Many buildings, apartments are neglected because, for either reason or for any other reason, the occupants have not maintained them properly and the amount of the rent is not provided, the amount of the rent as determined is sufficient for the proper renovation. We in the parliamentary group believe that it is essential that we adopt a certain amendment to the law concerning the amount of rent, since it is essential that in these dwellings the residents, regardless of their right to housing, have not had these apartments under the same conditions as other citizens, citizens, had these possibilities of redemption. Therefore, we believe and stress and conclude that this law, whatever it is, must be respected if we are to be a rule of law. But it's not written anywhere that we can't change it as soon as possible. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u32	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. I give the floor to my colleague, Roman Jakic, who will present the views of the Group of Members of Liberal Democracy. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u33	The Honorable President. It is, of course, difficult to present a position at each meeting, given that we never know in advance which discussion will be open to initiatives and questions. Nevertheless, allow us to take to protection, of course, at this point, not only the Prime Minister, the Minister and the Government as a whole, but also our client. At the outset, the Prime Minister said that the law on denationalisation had been adopted before he took over the leadership of any Government of the Republic of Slovenia and before, I add, the party to which I belong took this responsibility to take power in that country together with coalition partners. Therefore, all those who are in some way trying to tackle the story of denationalisation and the problems related to it, on the shoulders of the Liberal Democratic Party, would recall that the predecessor of this party in the first mandate of the ZSMS-LS, a liberal party, left the meeting of the National Assembly or the Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia because she did not agree with the law on denationalisation. I was, Mr Potč will know, that the combined list remained in the hall that our client had left the hall because we did not agree because it was our basic opinion that we were correcting it in truth, and it was the right thing to do, the wrongs were done back, but we did not think about what we would do in advance because we had done new injustices with it. And a new injustice took place at this point, at the point of residents in denationalized apartments. I also recall the discussion when it was said that the state was withdrawing from this relationship and that new or old owners and old or new owners should agree on this. And that's how the emptiness came to this point. Therefore, I must say that with some good opinion I am looking at the new law that we are talking about today, which is not an item of the agenda, is not an item of the agenda or the government, but of course it has been answered. He's really transparent. I even have it in binding form because in the Ljubljana municipality we have to tie it together, print it out and we will try to highlight the shortcomings or advantages of this law to the Ministry of Environment and Space. If the proponents of this point were correct and were not correct at this point when they spoke of indemnity and indemnity or secrecy, which, of course, proved through the discussion, then it would be correct to read the articles of Article 170 of this so-called draft law on the regulation of housing relations returned under the maintenance rules. This way you will read exactly what the fellow Minister Kopač said, what the state has really said after so many years, and now, of course, it is already a crisis and we have found that one part of these new and old-new tenants and owners cannot agree on what the role of the State should be in ensuring equality before the law. You have a whole range of activities that the government and this country are supposed to be leading in this direction. Last but not least, in article 170, paragraph 3, which states, I quote: "In this case, the tenant has a right to compensation of 47% of the value of the dwelling from the denationalisation debtor, 25% of the value of the Slovenian compensation company in the form of bonds and 13% of the legal successor of the Slovenian Development Company in cash." Not to say that, in addition to these options, the applicant has also examined the following options in preparing the bill: to give tenants denationalised apartments the opportunity to rent them another suitable apartment with the possibility of redemption under the provisions of the privatisation housing law, so that owners of denationalised apartments for these apartments would, of course, be granted market compensation if they agreed to do so, and the tenants would be able to buy these apartments and not least so that the state would cover the difference between profitable and non-profit housing for the owners of denationalised apartments occupied with previous holders of housing rights. I will, of course, end at this point because I think it is an unfair attack by my fellow Members of the Slovenian National Party because they have opened a point that is not in fact problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to my colleague Mr Podobnik to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, let me just point out, given your statement that this issue has been unannounced, that all the questions referred to in the Rules of Procedure are unannounced, since Members and Members do not need to predict the contents of the question. Thank you very much. Comrade Podobnik, you have a word and five minutes available. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u35	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Allow me to briefly present the Group's position on the issue, which was raised by Ambassador Jelinčič, in our opinion in some segments is also offensive, and then also on the response of the Prime Minister. It is a matter of housing law and, in particular, denationalisation beneficiaries. If the government publishes the draft law online, this is an argument to commend the government not for the attack. This openness of the government and thus the possibility of civil society and all stakeholders entering the scope of the law is a positive path, and I hope that other authorities will follow such a method wherever possible. Second thought. The housing law has been supplemented several times. In our Group of Members, we expect to find synergies between current new owners and tenants in the context of the adoption of this novel. We hope to find this synergy, this symbiosis. At the performance of the Prime Minister and some others, we felt as if we were ashamed that we had passed a law on denationalisation in Slovenia. That's the wrong attitude. I ask you whether Slovenia could enter the European Union if it did not have this law. We passed a law on denationalisation because it was once a nationalisation. And let us not be embarrassed if, as a government, as ministers, we implement the law on denationalisation. Last but not least, it is also an expression of the new times of the 1990 democratic awakening. Some of the complex solutions in the law itself have already been removed with changes to the law. However, we hope that the Republic of Slovenia and the Government will take seriously yesterday's position on the European Commission. If we have heard correctly from the media, our foreign minister and the others who participated in the meeting in Brussels have reiterated that the implementation of the denationalisation law is too slow. However, regardless, we are pleading here, so in the subject we are talking about, for wisdom and also for social sensitivity, so that we can find a solution between the owners of apartments and tenants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I see that we have listened to the performances of almost all the groups of Members. I conclude the debate and I give the floor to ask the Prime Minister, colleague Janez Janša. You have a word and three minutes at your disposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u37	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, members and members of the government! In recent times, unfortunately, in our political space, it is again possible to detect some kind of revolutionary rhetoric. I do not mean so much for some of the performances we have just heard, but for the vocabulary and symbolism used in the increasingly tight anti-Nat campaign. The revelations of NATO’s signs, which is a union of states with democratic order, together with Nazi symbols, are being published. They appear outspokenly, even in the performances of representatives or the underages of some parties who otherwise say that they are for NATO, the equations of NATO leaders, the leaders of NATO Member States with Hitler, Nazism and so on. I would like to point out that these things are taken too easily. Let us remember a few years ago when such comparisons took place in Serbia, when the regime whose representative used the same comparisons before the International Court of Justice in The Hague today. Then they were like Nazism, of course they were doing other things, so internationally they got completely lonely, and only Cuba and China supported them. Today is the epilogue of this story, as I have already said, before the International Court of Justice in The Hague. For this reason, at least this comparison should sober us up. But I'm afraid our space is becoming a little bit comparable to the space we've been in for years. Today we have been informed that a number of members of the Socialist Union of the People's Republic of China are coming next month for an official visit to Slovenia. The websites of the well-known ministry state that it is an institution that plays a special role in the political life of China, has no greater influence and is primarily intended to make an image, some kind of democracy in the Chinese decision-making system. I ask the Prime Minister: Who invited this delegation? What will be the benefits of this grand visit? How much will this cost us, since the cost of such visits is not negligible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Does Mr. Prime Minister want to answer, or am I going to give an answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u39	Mr Janša, honourable Members and Members. I agree that the atmosphere with regard to our association is then relatively poor and that I am also concerned about the decline of public support for NATO membership. The government is working to raise its public support and present its arguments for membership, and in the coming months we certainly intend to step up our activities in this direction. I would certainly also take this opportunity to say once again that Slovenia has already received the security provided by NATO. Without NATO intervention in Southeast Europe, in the former Yugoslavia, the Balkans, security of Slovenia today would be significantly lower, worse than it is. If NATO’s forces were to withdraw from the Balkan area at this time, the security situation would deteriorate at the moment. Slovenia, too, should devote a lot more resources to its security than it is today, or what it will do if it becomes a member of NATO within the framework of collective defence. In particular, those who object to NATO membership, perhaps even because of some inertia from previous times, would recall that there has been a significant approximation of NATO's relationship, and then Russia, on the other hand, that practically largely falls into NATO's relationship already almost as a member and is involved in the system of operation, functioning of NATO and is likely to be expected to include it in the next phase. It is clearly a new process involving the democratic states of the West, including the former, even the enemies, in a joint effort to ensure as much stability and peace as possible in the world. I think that is why Slovenia rightly wants to participate in these processes, and then also in such a relationship to decide on future moves and also developments in the world. As regards the specific question of the invitation of the Chinese delegation to Slovenia. I don't know this invitation. As Prime Minister, I am not aware of this. I don't think our foreign minister knows anything about that either. So they're not coming to the invitation of the Slovenian government. If they come, as I've been told, to the invitation of the National Assembly, they'll probably give an explanation to the president or someone else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u40	That's right. If my colleague Janš agrees, I would like to answer this question and give a brief explanation. In March, I had a delegation led by the Ambassador of the People's Republic of China proposing that the Chinese delegation visit Slovenia on the 10th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic contacts. He also made a written proposal. I took this opportunity to inform my colleague Kacin, Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee. We briefly consulted with the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I think the minister is going to China in a short time. It was said that it would be useful to do so. I've also issued an invitation. As regards the costs, the Republic of Slovenia will, once again, verify this, cover the costs for the first 10 members of the delegation on the list and all the other costs are borne by the Republic of China. That's the answer I can give. Any other cabinet members want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Please, colleague Janš, you have a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u41	I'm a little surprised now that the president of the National Assembly is issuing these invitations just like that. In view of the fact that this is not a negligible cost, such visits should probably be planned. At least in normal countries it happens in advance, and it's in the annual calendar. There's no such thing as a visit by someone who comes and says, we'd visit you and then you'd invite him and you'd hide the costs. Okay, 10 members, that's a lot, too. I don't know what the foreign ministry's opinion was. Their website says: The results of this visit should be relatively small, as there are no open political issues between the two countries. On the other hand, apart from the exchange of views, there would be no concrete results. And that's why we're going to pay a few million tolars, a few ten million tolars. If my criticism has previously been directed towards the government, it is now directed towards Parliament's leadership. Parliament's leadership must also behave rationally in this situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u42	I've explained the reason for this decision. As far as the cost of these things is concerned, we are trying to act rationally if it is also within my jurisdiction. It was a decision that I, as I said, consulted people in the house. If the Committee considers that this decision needs to be reconsidered, it can also do so, otherwise it is customary to do so. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that we will shortly adopt a regulation on the international activities of the National Assembly and resolve some of these issues in this document. The third question is raised by colleague Marko Diaci. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u43	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Honourable Prime Minister, distinguished ministers and ministers, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues. Recently, central and social policy issues have been the abolition of compulsory military duty and the professionalization of the Slovenian army. Security and political circumstances in Europe are changing, as security does not mean only defence power, but also the power to control other non-military sources of threat, such as fires, floods, humanitarian aid. These changes in Europe are also accompanied by the abolition of compulsory military duty and the professionalisation of the military. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are aware that this is a professional issue, but we note that there are different opinions in the section. The first advocates the immediate abolition of compulsory military duty and the rapid professionalisation of the military, while others advocate gradual changes. The fact is that, in addition to changes in the security and political circumstances in the wider society, Slovenia faces even more specific problems, for example, the demographic trend of recruits is inconvenient, more and more recruits are deciding on civil service of the military deadline, which goes beyond the envisaged cities and creates waiting types among young recruiters. The Slovenian army seems to have a more purpose for itself, especially if we look at the relationship between officers, officers and soldiers. It is clear that the pace of abolition of the mandatory military deadline and the professionalisation of the Slovenian army will be decided by political will. That is why I am interested, Mr President of the Government, in the following. Do you think that Slovenia needs to make changes due to financial, human resources and infrastructure resources quickly, which means immediate or early abolition of compulsory military duty and professionalisation of the Slovenian army, or do you advocate slower changes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u44	Please, Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr Diaca, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Professionalization of the Slovenian army is a very topical topic. The Slovenian Government has been dealing with this issue for some time now and there is already a proposal for appropriate legal solutions in the procedure. We know that such an initiative has already come from elsewhere, including the Social Democratic Party, and we also have many initiatives from civil society, as confirmed by the recent debate on security issues in the Strategic Council, where I initiated this issue, the question of professionalisation, yes or no, in Slovenia, about the professionalization of the Slovenian army. In general, I can see that there is considerable agreement that it is appropriate for Slovenia to withdraw from the recruitment system and move on to professionalisation. Differences were more or less emerging when it came to the real pace of how fast, or how soon, or how to move it into a better, less distant future. We have studied various variants and the Ministry of Defence has also drawn up different variants, taking into account, of course, the reasons for and against various problems. We also consulted elsewhere, where they already have experience in the transition to a professional army. We have found that more or less this trend in many countries is increasing and that the experience where they have already done so is positive; that, even when they expected greater problems in advance, implementation itself did not present such problems. One of the main issues we face is whether or not we will get enough volunteers for the professional service of the wartime. This is, of course, linked to the attractiveness of this profession, to the general representation in the country of this profession. There will probably be something to be done on this, and it is possible to increase the interest of some government activity and of all institutions then in such a profession in the country. In these debates alone, I advocate a relatively fast transition to professionalisation. The proposal, which is now under discussion, in the government procedure, goes in this direction - in order to finally abandon the recruitment system in mid-2004 and, when combined with a mandatory reserve, to the voluntary service or professional service of the military service during a period of time. The government will discuss this in the shortest possible time. The Ministry of Defence is also preparing changes or a new proposal for the long-term development of the Slovenian army, the development and equipment of the Slovenian army to include these changes. In thinking about how quickly, whether now or not, this change leads me to a faster approach, the fact that Slovenia is now living in a relatively safe external environment, without any immediate threats, and that the years ahead of us are relatively favourable in this respect to the completion of some transformation of the Slovenian army. The Slovenian army has been building practically since the beginning of our country's establishment, even in some reorganisations, and it seems right for us to make these changes and conclude now in some way, as quickly as possible until the end, to establish a system that will then work in the long term. It is obvious, however, that the professional army and professional soldiers are also better able to meet the challenges of modern technology, modern equipment, are more specialised and that this is also one of the fundamental reasons why many countries decide to make such a transition. I think it's also important that we bring in some element of volunteerism here. Compulsory service of military service for all Slovenians also has a negative connotation from history, from many situations also from the previous country and some element of choice, however, it is not associated with the requirements of greater professionalization, higher technology, that it makes sense and that this is close to Slovenians and Slovenian mentalities. The government will submit this law to the National Assembly as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[You don't want to.]] Thank you very much. With this, we have also exhausted the part of the question of Members of Parliament to which the Prime Minister is responsible. Now the questions of colleagues and colleagues will be answered by the competent ministers or their authorised deputies. A question will be raised by colleague Majda Zupan. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! Ladies and gentlemen, ministers, Members and Members of Parliament! I refer the question to the Minister of Economy. It is widely reported that Smelt or Gio, who is state-owned as I have data, is buying a plane that is smaller than government or state. Madam Secretary! I believe you'll say, "A plane again!".. However, I'm asking, given that at least you have influence through the supervisory authority. Does that information hold? If yes, in this case, there would be a possible solution, at least a partial problem with the aircraft or when we are talking about this unfortunate aircraft all the time, the government would demonstrate its sense of rationalisation, but only after it has withdrawn from the agreement, as Mr President has already said today, or if the aircraft will, or will sell it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister, Dr. Tei Petrin. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u49	Thank you very much for the question, honourable Member! I must say that Gio was part of the Slovenian Development Society. I can provide you with a written answer to your question and invite the members of the Supervisory Board to report on this matter to me whether they have concluded anything in the Slovenian Development Society. As you know, the Slovenian Development Society is slowly going into liquidation and should not undertake any new activities under the programme adopted by the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[You don't want to.]] Thank you very much. The next question is asked by a colleague of Silva Črnugelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Hello, Mr. President. Thank you for saying so. Well-welcome colleagues and colleagues, members of the government. I will address today's question to the Minister for Environment and Space, Janez Kopač. This is where I see Radovan Tauzes. My question concerns granting concessions to the Postojna Cave. At its 35th meeting, on 18 February this year, the Municipality Council of Postojna addressed this issue and found that, although all the conditions for granting the concession had not yet been granted, the concession had unfortunately not yet been granted. All legal bases are also provided, and it has been found on the municipal council to be drawing too long on this issue. Because the concession is not granted and it is not exactly known how and what the management is, the complete region Postojna and tourism Postojna, and also Slovenia in one way, is losing in force. This pearl of Krasa and the pearl of Notranjska was once the pride of Slovenia and Slovenia somehow became also recognized by this pearl. I hope that with all your follow-up actions, this will be a strength to revive. In accordance with the provisions of Article 43 of the Nature Conservation Act and the Environmental Protection Act for the use of natural value owned by a State or local community, concessions have been granted. The concession for the use of natural value owned by the State is granted by the State. Since Postojna cave and complex around Postojna cave have this nature, we expect the country to do something about it. As information, I would like to say that all interested in this area have signed a letter of intent, namely the Municipality of Postojna, Postojna Cave, Turizem d.d., Regional Economic Chamber Postojne, Institute of Tourism Postojna, and in this document have also written some ideas for the rehabilitation of the current situation and also wishes for the future development of this place. I want to know what stage you're in. If you have started, when do you plan or what else is required to grant a concession? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Secretary of State, mag. Happy Tauzes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u53	Dear Member, thank you very much for your question. It is true that the concession act, the proposal for a concession act, is already in place. The Concession Act or Regulation was prepared on the basis of the nature protection conditions and criteria made by the Crassus Research Institute operating at the SAZU. However, we have a small problem with the fact that we have already sent a contract to the current postojna cave manager or this complex to sign in March to determine the amount of funds invested in the natural landmark. We do not yet have this reply or signature of the contract and we expect it. This is an essential element for regulating the concessional relationship with the concessionaire. If everything runs according to our scenario, this means that the government will adopt this regulation, for which the proposal is already ready to launch a call for a concessionaire to be selected, we are kind of counting, the month of June for the matter to be completed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the Member of Parliament, Mr Vojko Celigoj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u55	Thank you so much for saying that. The government's well-happened representatives. I refer my question to the Ministry of Education, Science, Sport and Youth. But it is a question of the status of former falcon homes in our country. It is a whole range of falcon houses, which this time is owned by the Sport Union, which are masters of these homes, and the decision to sell these houses, despite the fact that many more questions remain open. Allow me to present this problem on a single case, in the case of a falcon home in Illyrian Bistrica, built by the locals 90 years ago. In order to invest in their own resources and jobs, there is no need to speak out specifically, since the Austrian authorities were not favored with falcon activity and even less with the construction of national homes. After the first war, the Italian authorities seized the house. The end of the war awaited home in the fires and ruins, again the youth struck him with their stings and gave him an old original purpose. And he was arrested again. First he became home to JLA and then home to social organizations. Formal ownership was first taken over by TVD Partizan Slovenia and then by the current owner, Sport Union. Now the Sport Union has decided to sell this house on the basis of the invitation to tender, despite the fact that neither the owner nor the outside owner invested in this building. All the contributions of the locals and the stings of the young have also been forgotten. The locals are so afraid that after all these peripeties the home will be estranged or that the congregation will even have to redeem its property if it wants to get it back and pay for it to someone who has no investment in it With regard to this issue, which is very similar to the fate of others at home, I ask you to answer the following question. How the property is secured, in this case former falcon homes, from formal owners such as the Sport Union. Why does not the falcon homes return to places where interest and appropriate destination are shown, this is for young people and sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State for Sports will answer to you. Mr. Jake Bednarick. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, honourable Members, thank you for the question. The problem is that, of course, your claim that the Sports Union is only a formal owner of such facilities and many others. The problem is that it is also a formal legal owner in accordance with Slovenian legislation. However, the insurance of this property is unfortunately linked to a certain activity of companies that are operators or users of such and similar homes. It is likely that this society should in fact prove the legal legacy of the falcon society operating in this area to prove voluntary work, which is likely to be difficult, because records of this voluntary work were not kept and evidence of the investment of the local community, which was almost certainly the case. It is, of course, judicial proceedings, which are long-lasting and which are also linked to the lawyers that the Sport Union has and is in possession of. In line with existing legislation, there is no other way, in fact, because such issues already apply, as I recall for the first time, in 1998, when the Sports Act was passed and in fact there was no way for any new nationalisation law to return this property to this home. Of course, we do not sit at the crossroads of arms and we also began to negotiate with the Sport Union and the Sport Union has adopted a policy that has also been demonstrated at five meetings with municipalities distributed across all regions of Slovenia, where 70% of the property is actually prepared to be attributed to societies that are members of the Sport Union and which are managers of these homes or sports facilities. This is more about sports facilities. It is not clear from your question whether it is a sports object or another object. This, of course, is not only because the Sports Union is so good, but mainly because there are more problems, of course. Firstly, if there is no public sports facility - and the facilities of the Sport Union are not public sports facilities - the state or the local community must not invest and therefore this is a cost, also linked to legislation which provides that the owner must pay certain taxes. Moreover, sales are not so simple as to have to take a decision on the sale of companies, and here the company, which is probably also a member, the operator, is also a member of the Sport Union, could object and try to convince the Assembly that this is not right. So now, somehow, an agreement - I don't know what it is like for this case - exists the interest of the Sport Union, so that for these reasons, in fact 70% of the property would be attributed to society and society could then pass it on to the local community. However, it is also necessary to pay all the benefits clearly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mrs Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u59	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present. I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: How much water must flow and how long has it been since the promise that the Health Care and Health Insurance Act will be placed in its original form? This means that it would guarantee the right to reimbursement of travel costs in the event of treatment and checks outside the place of residence. I also ask: How many patients didn't have the opportunity to get a specialist checkup at the official health centres because they didn't have money for travel costs? How much money have they saved with this health care measure? Are you aware of what the family must give up to contribute from low incomes to the travel expenses of its member? Of course, no one's gonna count that. Given that several of the bills tabled on this subject are already in place, they could have already changed the item to its original state. We should know that as far as treatment is concerned, there should be no negotiations. On that side of the coast are ours and your mothers, the patients who are tried by the law are the most deplorable, for whom we, the National Assembly, and the government are responsible. If we declare ourselves a legal and social state, then what is happening is not admissible. It is not permissible to reduce the rights for which some have paid their entire lives, nor is it allowed to divide citizens into categories one and two, i.e. those who have a specialist ambulance across the road, and those who, due to their distance, pay high costs. You gentlemen have time to negotiate and time is running out for the very sick. I hope that the law will be amended as soon as possible on the parliamentary benches: harmonised or uncoordinated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I give the floor to Dr. Dusan Kebra, Minister of Health. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u61	Dear Members and Members, Madam Vice-President! Thank you for the question, Madam Ambassador. First of all, what matters most. The Ministry of Health will do everything necessary to ensure that this amended law is in Parliament in May of this year. Second answer, why isn't it now, why isn't it in April? There's a lot of reasons for that. First of all, there are several amendments to this law pending in Parliament. First of all, there was a change to the law that did not contain these changes. The amendment of the law, which touches on travel costs and certain other rights, has been tabled - and is waiting as the second in line, first by the first-signed Member of Geza Juban and second in line, honourable Member, is your initiative. So, first of all, the initiative of the parliamentary group led by the first-signed Mr Borut Pahor, which deals with medicines for children. It was therefore necessary, in the meantime, to reach agreement with this group in order to take the initiative to change the law and return it to its former state. In addition, these changes have also had to be renegotiated in the socio-economic world, and some other discussions have been held. In short, we have some reasons to say that there was no way we could prepare the law for the April session, but there is certainly no reason, except perhaps time pressure, but not by the proponents, perhaps by Parliament, that this law would not appear in May. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mr Roman Jakič will ask the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u63	Thank you for your word, Vice President. First of all, I would like to protest in some way, given that the 27th Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which states that, in writing or orally, the Government or individual Minister must answer it in writing no later than three days before the first next meeting. Yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes, yes. Ivan Bizjak was not present at the previous meeting of the National Assembly on 19.3. when, to my question, State Secretary Erjavec said that he would submit a written reply, both to me and to you, colleagues and colleagues, to the question. That is why I would like to repeat the question to Mr Biszak here and now, and, of course, I hope that he will answer it. As you know, Minister Bizjak, at his 6th regular session, adopted a law amending the Law on Judicial Service, which, with the temporary allocation of judges to perform judicial service in another court, sought to enable the implementation of programmes for remedying arrears. The amendment of the law at that time allowed the award to be paid to the award-winning judge involved in the programmes for the resolution of arrears within the limits of the appropriations allocated to the court. This should make it possible to exercise judicial authority more effectively or to provide judicial protection through the implementation of the lag-out programme, with increased efficiency, in a more rational manner, without additional staff. Of course, it's about breaking up the Hercules program. At that time, as you know, I strongly supported and expressed some concerns about the success of this programme in the debate. I argued that, by adopting the law, we are not solving the issue of the abolition of judicial arrears, but rather the substantive position of the judges, which is a mere confirmation of the situation in the National Assembly, and we can only thank Members for not having accepted an additional allowance for judges. In addition, I felt that the flat-rate award of judges willing to participate in the programme would not produce the desired results, as the only appropriate stimulus would be to reward judges according to the number of cases resolved beyond the standardised scope. Minister, one more question that has already been asked. To what extent have the judges of Hercules helped to reduce judicial backlogs? I am particularly interested in: how many cases have they resolved, have they exceeded the number of cases handled on average by the judge, and have the courts to which they were assigned reduced the backlogs or the courts from which they were assigned not increased the backlog? Of course, I thank you for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I give my word to the Minister of Justice, mag. Ivan Biszak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u65	Madam Vice President! Your Honor! First of all, I apologize that the written answer is not yet here. But this is about me signing it today, but we were getting information from the Supreme Court. In this case, we are not the ones with all the information, and the answer to the questions takes several more. But the answer to the question is before me. I can summarize a few key points in this regard. First, of course, that the law was passed in June last year and, on the basis of this, the Supreme Court, which mentions this information, began to implement the first such case following a prescription at the beginning of October or following a procedure which the amended law allowed. The Provincial Court was elected in Domžal and on 1 October last year the first senior judge was appointed to work; in mid-October 15, and in particular the second judge, in particular with the aim of removing the backlogs in the justice department. Each of them was assigned after 150 of the oldest legal cases, and by the end of 2001, 114 were resolved within three months or two and a half months. On the other hand, if we look at whether this has contributed to an improvement in the situation in court; in this particular court, the number of outstanding cases decreased by 19.9 percent. This is how they count on the Supreme Court, and with them too, to make this goal, in order to burden the court with old backlogs and to allow it to continue to deal with matters in a timely manner, so that it can be achieved. As of 1 November, the programme was also introduced in the Supreme Court of Maribor, in particular with the involvement of professional associates, and also in the District Court in Slovenia Gradec in early 2002. For these two courts, due to a short period of time, there is no more specific information. As far as finance is concerned. At the District Court in Domžal, 839 thousand were used for these purposes, of which 618 thousand were paid, and 204 thousand were paid by the Supreme Court in Maribor. It is clear that not all funds have been used, far from being allocated to the Supreme Court of Justice for the implementation of these programmes and, on the other hand, the amounts show that any special, additional awards in the entire judiciary cannot be detected in any way. So we will continue, as the Ministry, through the Supreme Court and in direct contact with the Presidents of the Courts concerned by this programme, to monitor very closely what the actual effects will be. This very first court, which has been included, will provide some key answers, and I repeat that the Hercules project was mainly meant to eliminate old backlogs in those courts that are in control. For those courts where they do not control the current property, other measures should be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Jakič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u67	It's not as complementary a question as a comment. Of course, I thank you for that answer, Mag. Bisak and, of course, I expect this written answer, especially in the spirit of looking at other numbers. So, comparative - you were talking about 114 solved cases in the House of Commons, if I understood correctly. I wonder what the average is, if it's the average of the cases solved. I am also interested in the full financial – you know that this National Assembly, because it was in a hurry, adopted this law and also put 49 million dollars into the 2001 budget because we were told that these funds should be given because these funds will cover the recovery of the arrears. That is why I expect a written answer and based on this written answer, if any things are not yet clear to me, you can rest assured that I will again ask you a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, would you like to respond further? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u69	Just two items. In any event, you will receive a written reply as soon as possible. For all further questions, including the direct clearance of this important problem, which is sometimes a little distant, but, I mean, you are welcome - there is no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Franci Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u71	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. I'm going to ask Mrs Tei Petrin a question. Indeed, as early as March 2001, a new regulation or amendment of the Regulation on operating time in trade, which resulted mainly in March 2001, as well as later, was published, with a great deal of dissatisfaction between employees in trades and also wider. Indeed, it is a fact that this rule improves the quality of life of shopkeepers, it also interferes with their family life and the upbringing of children. In view of the lack of effective inspection, there are also major infringements of the rights of employees in trade activities. In view of the current questions raised, I ask you again, Madam Minister - i.e., the questions are raised by so-called shopkeepers, trade union workers in Slovenia, as well as by the participants of the international trade union conference, which was held in Ljubljana on 4 and 5 April, which expressed strong dissatisfaction with the regulation that we have in Slovenia. For this reason, I really ask you again: Will the Ministry and you, as the competent minister, join in this amendment of the regulation, which in fact threatens the fundamental human rights of employees in trade in our country? I also ask you: Will you also take into account the actual establishment of an appropriate social partnership with relevant unions when establishing the necessary amendments to this Regulation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u72	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Minister of Economy, Dr. Tei Petrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u73	Thank you so much for asking. Well, I think there has been a lot of monitoring in the public media about what is happening with the working group and the results of the working group, which has been formed and represented by both trade union representatives and consumer associations, then the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of the Economy. The Ministry of Labour is particularly involved because the objections raised by workers employed in trade relate mainly to the lack of supervision of labour inspectors who assess violations of the labour relationship. In fact, this does not affect the issue of operating time at all, but it is within the competence of the Ministry of Labour, and I therefore reiterate that the representatives of the Ministry of Labour are also included in this working group. This working group has already held several meetings and I think the work is being done accordingly. This has also been published in the media. Last meeting - I think it was last week. Now, in essence, there must be an agreement between employers and the trade union on a proposal developed by the Ministry of the Economy. We have put forward a proposal in which we are essentially very sanctioning, I think, allowing some control and some order over not stretching normal working hours into overtime. With this they were trade unions, with our proposal - the union representatives welcomed it very positively. Of course, there is now an objection here on the employer's side and there is now some conversation between the two partners, if I may say that there is an appropriate solution. I must say that it is not a rule of any kind, that this is Article 17 of the Law and that we are essentially working on this Article 17 of the Law, as it has been stipulated. In fact, Article 17 of the Law is supposed to be such that these matters would be substantially more regulated than in the past in order to avoid any regulation that would be like a sub-law regulating these market relations. Once again, a meeting of this Commission is envisaged and, on this basis, we will then draft the amendment of Article 17 and also refer it to Parliament.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Rokavec wants to ask a supplementary question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. I would, Madam Minister, warn you. In fact, look, it's been over a year since that rule was adopted. By the way, time is running out. More than one year has passed, and at this point the most liberal operating time system we can know is in place. All over the European Union and as liberal a time as we are. In fact, there are very serious violations and the inspection here is not part of its task. And in fact, I am sure that the workers in the store are entitled, like everyone else, to a 40-hour working week and also to a fair payment for the on-call. This, as we know, is the situation at the moment that does not reflect these fundamental rights that workers in stores should have. In fact, I would like to appeal to you once again to speed up these discussions and coordinations and to find an appropriate solution as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Additional answer, Dr. Petrinov, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Well, I have to say, these meetings are almost once a month or at least every other month. It depends on the partners who talk and how they come to an agreement, that's how things go. So here we cannot order these two partners to find a common coordinated solution to come to a solution. However, I think that this process has already reached a point - I think at the next meeting - that this joint proposal will come to light. If there is no joint proposal, we will simply make the proposal that we have already drawn up. And as I said earlier, the Ministry of the Economy - in fact, its area is not a work area, but because it has been shown that certain violations have occurred in this area, we have made certain formulations in Article 17 which would have prevented traders from violating the working hours - I think of this normal 42-hour schedule. That's how we did it on our side.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u78	Thank you very much. The next one will ask the question of the Magi. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. Hello again to all government representatives. The question concerns payments to victims of war and post-war violence. As early as 15 January of this year, the deadline has expired for the Slovenian Compensation Society to pay compensation to the victims under the Act on Victims of War and Post-war Violence of the first instalment of damages. Instead of the corresponding payments, the victims of post-war violence received a letter from the Slovenian compensation company. It reads: "We inform you that the Slovenian Compensation Society cannot issue you a decision fixing the amount of compensation that belongs to you under the law on compensation to victims of war and post-war violence. Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, No. 18/2001, if he doesn't have your EMHO." First, it should be pointed out that the law on the correction of wrongs and the law on the payment of compensation to victims of war and war violence does not mention anything about EMCHA as a condition for the payment of these damages. That's the first one. Otherwise, it is not possible to understand this letter as a means of delay. Secondly, what is worth warning is the incorrect beginning of the letter, since beneficiaries who have been waiting for these compensations for a long time now doubt that they will receive anything at all. Now he asks them for an EMHA, then they'll wonder about something else. Nor by administrative procedure is this required, such information as would therefore be strictly required for the issue of a decision. Apparently, some thorns are in the fifth payment of these damages and would like to get rid of it. Or there's something else in the middle. That is why I am asking the competent minister or minister - I think this is for the economy or the Minister of Justice - to explain the reasons for the delay and for such a way of communicating with the beneficiaries under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u80	Thank you very much. I ask the representatives of the government, who would like to answer Mr Drobnic's question about the payment of compensation? Ms. Helena Kamnar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u81	Thank you very much. See, we are not exactly aware of the procedures pursued by the Slovenian Compensation Society in accordance with its law, the Law on Administrative Procedure and the laws which accurately define individual rights. There are no serious reasons why payments should not be made related to financial resources at the moment. I'm guessing that's what the assumption was. I promise the government will find out what the problem is and explain it to you in writing. At the moment, I do not know exactly why the Slovenian Compensation Society has requested an EMHO, but I suppose that due to the absence of duplication of payments with the same person. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u83	Well, I'd be very pleased with the answer, and I'd be even more pleased if things moved. These gentlemen or ladies who are doing this could be advised that the EMSO could be sought, but that is not necessary, this is not the reason why the administrative procedure, i.e. the procedure for issuing the decision, should be delayed. And if that happens, then I'll be very happy to see those injured get paid. But I expect a serious answer so that I can also give an explanation to the electorate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u84	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Pavel Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u85	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! I have a question for the representative, or Minister for Education and Sport, if anyone from this ministry is here. Thus, the Slovenian state is constantly stinging with a higher inflation rate every day, each month, adding its share of wage claims; I am not talking now about health pay paid for education, but in the last period there is also a large factor in the demand for wage increases in kindergartens and thus the rising price of kindergartens and requirements where this is not yet done, although it is difficult to justify the demand for an increase or approximation of the so-called economic price in Slovenia if we know that the average price of kindergarten for one child is 60,000 tolars. This means about the day of care, that is from 8 to 9 hours, even 3,000 tolls per child per day, even more expensive than the hotel, say, B categories in tourist areas. More than 70, even more than 80% of this price, in most cases means the salaries of employees and only a small part of the material cost, an even smaller portion of the diet for children. I argue that incompetent directors of institutions, kindergartens, are blackmailing the demand or raising prices primarily by informing parents that child protection programmes will be reversed if the price is not higher than 60,000, even threatening to eliminate the variety of food or the withdrawal of one of the daily meals, which is, of course, unacceptable and unreasonable. According to the findings, employees are paid [[End warning sign]] - I'm talking about one of the Gornje kindergartens, and I'm saying that in most other Slovenian kindergartens - that these salaries of employees move like this: a power plant of 110,000 tolar net [[So, I'm talking about net wages.]] , housekeeper 130,000 tolars, chef 180,000 tolars, deputy principal 315,000 tolars - net! - and the principal 420,000 tolars a month. These are the salaries received by employees in the mentioned Gornja kindergarten before the request for an 8% increase in the price of child protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u86	Mr. Rupar, please, the time has run out if you quickly ask the question that a ministry representative can answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u87	Good. So now I can't talk about how much this means to my parents. In most cases of Slovenian kindergartens up to 80% of these prices are covered by municipalities. However, since this means the very limit to the functioning of the municipalities, I ask the government - because after the end the state has ensured social security and child protection and education, I ask the Government: What measures can it take to raise the prices of kindergartens abnormally and to defend the status and existence of parents? Also because I believe that this is in her interest, because only in February and March did a large part of inflation lead to an increase in these prices. I also ask: Why does the government regulation not finally transfer the responsibility of protecting children to its shoulders from the shoulders of parents and from the burden of the congregations? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Mr. Rupar and the other colleagues. I very much ask that, in the interest of your fellow Members and colleagues, you respect the 3-minute opportunity to ask a question, because it is very embarrassing to interrupt between the issue of colleagues. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, Dr Stane Peyovnik, will answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u89	Madam President, honourable Members and Members, honourable Members of the Rupar. The question you have asked is, of course, quite complex and you know him as well as I do as the mayor. You know that on the basis of legislation, kindergartens are those with which you run municipalities and that the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport and the Government set standards and set out relationships, payment classes where parents participate in the payment of kindergarten costs. These are, of course, questions that we have opened several times, and we also open them several times. And it was at the last meeting of the Minister's College that we agreed on a few consultations with the mayors to find out where the most critical points are and to find some common solutions. However, it is clear - and I must stress this - that the problem is of course linked to a number of laws, not just those relating to school legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Rupar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u91	So, I thank you for this concern of the ministry, it is justified and I look forward to having the talks at last. But the minister agrees to appoint the principals. And these directors are demanding a price increase, and the congregations here are only affected because we have no influence on this. If the principal is incompetent, we can't make him, so we can't call him off, we can't call him off. This is the difference, or the difference or the difference between the Ministry of Education, so it should take up its part of the responsibility to check prices - it is not the municipalities, it is the parents who are already overloaded, especially young families, with prices - and it is justified that something is finally done to prevent such anomalies as I have here. Thank you very much. And I apologize for the overstatement.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u92	Thank you. Dr. Peyovnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u93	Just one sentence, honourable Member Rupar. We do not avoid our responsibilities. I gave you my word for this conversation and this conversation will be over.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Bogomir Vnučec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Dear Mrs Vice President, distinguished members and members of the government. My question is to the Minister of Finance, to Mr Rope, whom I have just seen, is not at the moment, but I will still put him on hold: the main issue in the country right now is the ownership of state property and, of course, the privatisation of state banks is first. The Minister insists on the privatisation of banks on the model: to sell the entire agreed share to one tenderer. We have been able to see in the professional public that this model is assessed as the worst and, in the final stage, according to the developments around old banks, even the most harmful. I am particularly disturbed by the fact that in such important matters as the sale of state property, on the other hand, both the state administration and the municipal administration must strictly adhere to the law on tendering and, of course, only for written envelopes, must collect at least three offers. I therefore wonder: What are the arguments that, Mr Minister, you are advocating a model of selling banks to sell a whole agreed share to one bidder? And of course, in the current findings of the commissions, which were in charge both of the assessment of the New Bank of Maribor and of the New Ljubljana Bank - it is said that the ratio of the value offered by the bidders and the ratio of the real market value of the bank - that the Commission decided not to sell at Novi KBM, although the bids for the purchase were higher than the real value of the bank; on the other hand, at the New Bank we find that for one third of the banks this offer was only two fifths of the value of those funds that the State had invested in the rehabilitation of the bank. Wasn't there a political decision and not a market decision? And if we're already selling banks, if we need money, what do we need for, what will this buy be for? Or would we not rather sell banks after the market segment if we had to sell them? So we're going to get the most out of them. Although I am not a proponent of selling the bank at any cost or cost, I personally think it would be better to wait for us to enter the European Union and then to carry out this thing. That is why I am particularly interested in or ask: Have political arguments prevailed before the market? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u96	Thank you. I give my word to the Minister of Finance, mag. Anton Rope. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u97	Dear Member, I am grateful for your question, because this gives me the opportunity to answer what you have asked, as well as some of the inaccuracies that have been raised in your question, to respond appropriately, because it is the fact that different data appears in the public, various statements concerning the privatisation of both banks, which absolutely and entirely do not hold and of course serve the likely deception of the public. It is quite the opposite, as you said, and I do not understand where you find this information that the offer in the case of Nova Ljubljanska banka is less favourable than in the case of the New Bank of Maribor. If we compare both offers, the offer in the case of Nova Ljubljanska Banka is significantly more favourable, a significantly more favourable relationship between book value and the price offered, and in the case of Nova Ljubljanska Banka all other conditions are significantly more favourable than in the case of the New Bank of Maribor. We can say that if there is a sale in the case of Nova Ljubljanska banka, it will be one of the best prices ever realized for a minority share in the sale of any bank in central Europe. There are data on this and, of course, we will also be able to inform the public accordingly. So, in no way is it true, as you said, that any political motives have been in these decisions, in fact none of these decisions have been fully taken by the government and not just one bidder. In the case of Nova Ljubljanska banka, as you probably know, it first showed the interest of five buyers, there was an invitation to tender, all banks from all over Europe and Slovenia, different buyers, financial institutions could participate. As you know, in the end, two banks made the whole offer on the basis of a careful review of the value of the two banks, the valuation of the banks and, of course, the high costs they both had. Finally, in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank, Erste Bank decided not to participate until the end in the entire transaction for just one reason: because it was clearly and unequivocally stated, according to the amended programme adopted by the Government, that we are selling the minority share at the first stage, that is 34%, and that, of course, is also a limited path to the majority share. So, even if there is a sale of the New Ljubljana Bank, I can tell you clearly and unequivocally: New Ljubljana Bank remains in majority Slovenian ownership until the end of 2005, at least until the beginning of 2006. At the same time, the price achieved - in my opinion - is very good and, in my opinion, it is never possible to achieve as good a price as in this case. It's so far from being any political motive. In this case, I can also say that the part of the agreement that is and is being negotiated is very clear. The government and the SOD and the CAD will appoint a majority of the members to the Supervisory Board after the transaction, if it is to be executed - six members of the 11 members, of which there must be two professionals. And the Belgian company, if there's a transaction, only four members. In fact, control will be completely clear and completely transparent. The public will also be very closely aware of what this transaction brings and, of course, by moving forward to the second phase of privatisation, this is the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. We will also offer shares to domestic institutional owners with an agreed discount because it was necessary to agree with a potential investor, this discount will be 10%, which means that in any case domestic buyers will be very much paid this share in this part to buy in those shares as will be offered, and of course to participate in the recapitalisation and capitalisation of the bank. The result will undoubtedly be that the bank will be strengthened, both technologically and with some new products, particularly in the insurance sector, in order to acquire new markets, so that, of course, it will also become more humanely strengthened and, of course, capable of implementing its development strategy. The programme is perfectly clear and will also be fully transparent and publicised. The price to be used will be intended exclusively, I stress exclusively, to reduce public debt in Slovenia. And I can, of course, ensure that if we sold the entire bank at such a price, we would settle all the funds that were intended for the rehabilitation of the two banks, not just the New Ljubljana Bank. This is as far as the case of the New Ljubljana Bank is concerned. Thus, the concept of privatisation, the privatisation system, which was defined in the law on the implementation of the budget, which was enacted in the National Assembly with the law on public finances, is absolutely comparable to the completely comparable concepts in other countries. It is based on a public call for tenders, which is internationally based on a privatisation commission - in which recognised experts, both in the legal field and in the economic field - and, of course, then on the final decision of the government, which must take a decision on the basis of the arguments given in the process of obtaining the best possible offers, in accordance with the privatisation objectives which, of course, must be drawn up by the government prior to the start of privatisation. This is how we worked with the New Bank of Maribor, so we work with the New Bank of Ljubljana, and regardless of the numerous attacks, we will strictly stick to the procedures and decide if you want, in accordance with national interests. In this case, however, national interests are that at the end of the day we have a better bank to repay public debt, to have a better financial system and a better economy. That's our basic guide. In this context, we have also further examined - in the case of the New Bank of Maribor - some of the additional offers that have been made and we wanted them with the Privatisation Commission, these offers, very clearly cleared, agreements were under way. The report has now been received by the Commission, we have received further clarifications so that we can decide on both cases in the near future. And they have decided on those options and those options that the government estimates will be the best for this country. However, I absolutely refuse to serve and support any political criteria in making decisions. In short, I believe that at the end of this process time will show that we will have better banks and better services for all Slovenian citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Satisfied with the answer? Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Vice President. My question will be addressed to the Prime Minister or the Government regarding the centralisation of certain institutions in this Republic. We have recently seen too much concentration of political, economic, economic and financial concentration in one place. The latest statistics I obtained in the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia show that North-East Slovenia - I think Styria, Prekmurje, Koroško - is very high in some statistics. Above all, I am referring to statistics on unemployment, for example, Ruše is still in the first place, the Municipality of Pesnica in second place, Maribor in third. And, if we look at some other municipalities that are in this Drava valley or northeast Slovenia, they are at the very top of the scale. It's not just unemployment, it's social. Social problems are increasing from day to day. Instead of increasing economic growth from day to day, it falls from day to day. There are no new state investments. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a decision on 16.10.2001: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of all ministries to prepare concrete proposals by 12 November 2001 for the transfer of the seats of individual state institutions outside Ljubljana." So I ask the government: Where is this list of those institutions, or has it done this work on the basis of which the decision was taken? At the same time, the work of the Government is the responsibility of the Secretary-General of the Government, who is also responsible for the resolution of such or similar decisions, or for the execution of decisions by individual departments. I ask the Prime Minister: Is the Secretary-General of the Government even a credible figure, given some recent events? We must be aware that the distinguished Mr Mirko Bandelj was the Minister of the Interior, who was not supported at the time of the interpretation and was suspended by interpretation because of the so-called notorious Vič-Holmec affair. At that time, he did great harm to Slovenian police and Slovenian states. Today, as Secretary-General, it is also misleading the entire Slovenian policy, including us, the National Assembly and Members, to deceive not only the Slovenian public through the means of public information regarding the purchase of a government aircraft. I therefore ask once again that the government representative or the Prime Minister himself answer these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u100	Thank you very much. The Prime Minister is not among us because he was obliged to answer the first three questions, then he authorizes ministers to answer. I think you asked how the government's decision on seat deconcentration is being implemented. I ask the authorised representatives if anyone wants to answer the questions. The Secretary-General of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Mirko Bandelj, will give us an answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Given the first question, I think that the representative of the interior ministry should answer, because the government has commissioned the interior ministry to do this analysis, and as far as I know, this analysis is working. I think that even within this some of the proposals have already been examined, but not yet fully appropriate, so that it is not yet possible to give clear pictures of which of the state institutions can be relocated or their headquarters can be moved from Ljubljana; of course it is Ljubljana and not another city, because there are seats of state institutions in other towns in Slovenia. So at this point this complete image has not yet been taken. On the second, of course, about my credibility and this, others can answer, but I can, because I am speaking and for this speaker, claim that, of course, I have never deceived the public about the plane. Even almost a month before the aircraft contract was concluded, it was explicitly stated - and in the newspapers, if you go, brother, from October of last year, you will see very clearly that when it comes to an aircraft, it is the price of 35 million, which is of course the producer's price, because when the contract is concluded we did not pay the tax and, of course, the tax is not part of the contract and the contractual relationship with the partner. We have also never claimed that this is not subject to tax, and the information was exactly the same as in all other cases of TRP contracts. The number on the cost of flight hours was also disclosed at the latest, if not earlier than 5 October, about 20 days before the conclusion of the contract, where it was also clearly stated that the price charged as the price of use is the hour of use of the aircraft, if of course depreciation is also counted. Otherwise, in all these procedures, the same information was heard from my mouth all the time. So, of course, I clearly reject this information about lying to someone, cheating or anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u102	Thank you very much. A supplementary question, Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. I do not know how much more I can trust the Secretary-General of the Government, given that the decision states: "The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is in charge of all ministries to prepare concrete proposals by 12 November 2001..." They are preparing concrete proposals! Ladies and gentlemen of the government sitting here today, we are here today in April 2002. And I think the Secretary-General is responsible for having to know whether this decision, which the Government has adopted, is being implemented or not, and why no concrete proposals have been made by 12 November 2001. I'm not asking the Ministry of the Interior here, but all the ministers and all the ministries are in charge here. I would like to stress once again: "...up to and including 12 November 2001 they shall make concrete proposals for the transfer of the seats of individual state institutions outside Ljubljana." Today, however, we are a month in April 2002 and not a word from a single ministry, except that this word could be obtained from the Secretary-General of the Government, who is so clever, in such a way that they still regulate and do not know what. By binding himself on a certain date and a certain obligation, because he does not do so until that date, he is in some way bringing credibility to himself and the Secretary of Government himself.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u104	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by the Member of Parliament, Mr Ivan Mamić. Here you go. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u105	Thank you. In the area where the indigenous Italian minority lives, the law on bilinguality applies. The law applies only in certain coastal areas and areas. Many public offices that are fueled by taxpayers’ money, however, are in constant violation of the bilingual law. This is how we meet bilingual billboards on Kozina, telephone answering machines sound in both languages in Kras, and advertising in Italian is all over Primorska. A bilingual notification of the census was sent to a number of households in the municipality, where bilinguality is not available. The law also violates the Cypriot municipal company in the same way several times a year. On the directionlines in Cyprus is the inscription Pula - Pola. So only in Croatian and Italian, and about the Slovenian name Pulj no trace. Infringement of the bilingual law is evident at every step. It is also particularly concerned about the continuing violation of bilinguality in areas where the Italian minority lives. A lot of inscriptions and advertisements are written in Slovenian only. These infringements have been a constant for many years and the competent authorities have not acted at all or at least effectively not. The question for the relevant ministry is: Why is the bilingual law not respected? And: Why is there no action against the offender? Why does bilingualism on the one hand extend to the whole of Primorsko and, on the other hand, do not apply in bilingual areas of the law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u106	Thank you very much. I ask the government representatives with the power to answer Mrs Mamić's question? Does the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs want to answer? East Simonita, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Dear Member! I do not think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is responsible for this issue. It is the situation and the Italian minorities in Slovenia and the issues that are regulated under domestic law. And that's why it's not our department's jurisdiction in this case. That's why it's gonna have to answer, I mean, another competent ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u108	Thank you very much. Do we have an authorized representative of the Ministry of the Interior in front of us? However, please, even if you do not know the answers, at least provide a written reply to the Member. That's what I think is right if you don't have the minister's authority to answer such questions. Mr. Miha Molan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u109	Thank you very much. I would say that we will examine this issue in full, now I cannot answer it, and we will prepare a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u110	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u111	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Well, I'd like to ask the government a question. Inclusion in NATO is one of the priorities of Slovenian foreign policy. The Government has also identified and prepared a third action plan for this action plan programme and is currently in the process of being implemented. The fact is, we all expected to receive an invitation to participate at the Madrid Summit, but that did not happen. Now we are nearing the summit in Prague and in Slovenia we are witnessing the discussions "for" and "against" Nate. In some media, we also witness such a procedure, which somehow exceeds that normal right to express our opinion democratically, of course in a negative sense. There's a paradox. Various groups and movements that oppose NATO receive support, the money for their work from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The State of the Republic of Slovenia does not have money in the budget, it has no item - at least I do not know it, so I will also ask the question - for equal propaganda to defend its priority policy, this is integration into NATO. The government has identified itself to this, which is its priority. I do not object to NATO's opponents receiving funds from the state budget, but I do not understand that the government itself does not provide resources for an equivalent - the emphasis is on "equal" - representing the defence of its policy. More! Those who advocate the priorities of the Slovenian government are even disabled. Let me just give you one example, since time is short. For example, the Committee on NATO, which is an institution of interest, an institution of civil society and where people are involved regardless of political orientation, has not received even 1 Slovenian tolar. Invitation stamps are paid and, of course, bought by members themselves. One gets the feeling that the government is somehow strong in supporting NATO only on a verbal level, but on a practical level does not do - or I will say, do the wrinkles a little. Somehow we have a feeling, and it is also said in public that the government simply does not want this priority to be realized in order to get an invitation to NATO. It financially supports NATO's opponents, it is said, also its opponents, its policies, but it does not support those who support its aspects or its priorities. So I ask the government whether the government will take steps to take equal action against NATO's opponents, of course with arguments, which, in the context of the funds they are using, is said to be spent by the opponents - to begin with, this would be entirely sufficient to be equivalent. It is now a calm view of how opponents spend their budget money and break down government policy. My question is: what will the government do to be an equal partner in this fight "for" and "against"? Now funds are being spent only against its policies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Ministry of Defence, to Mr Janko Deželak, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Thank you for the question, Mr Member, Mr President of the Defence Committee. Ladies and gentlemen! I believe that one part of the answer to your question has been given in the answer in which Mr Prime Minister answered one of the first three questions addressed to him today at this meeting. He mentioned that the government is preparing for a promotional action with which the NATO project, as you have rightly mentioned, will present its political priority to this government and the majority in the National Assembly in an appropriate way to the Slovenian public. This is what Mr President said, and I am sure that this project will be made public as soon as possible or at the right time - that timing is very important in our opinion - and that we will go a little more aggressively if you want to, to explain the objective facts to the Slovenian public. For, as we see, the controversy, as is now taking place, is the controversy led by people who, in principle, reverse numbers, the statistics for them are not relevant data, and in this sense we are all those who in one way or another support Slovenian membership in NATO, in an infraterior situation. The accounts, Mr Drnovšek said today that the Prague Summit is followed by an organised, well-coordinated government action which will present to the Slovenian public objective facts in this regard, still expressed by a large majority, a political priority and a political objective of this government and this country. I believe that financial support will also be appropriate. I would not now say what the Ministry of Defence is contributing to this project, you know, but I am thinking of something else, a government project that will bring together the efforts of all ministries that will be attracted to work here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Another question? Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u115	Thank you. So, as a representative of the opposition, I believe you, given that we have heard before that you are no longer a member of the coalition. I thought that the government was preparing steps such as, say, preparing for the second project the priority of Slovenian foreign policy of the European Union. There, we know that a bunch of brochures, then propaganda material, including a special website, a phone, and so on. I hear, well, that now this NATO forum has already been established somewhere, so it's said, "he's got it," he started work. Given that our foreign minister, Dr. Rupel, has said nicely that we are now approaching the finish line, and once we are on the finish line, time is running out, I fear that time will run out. So I hope that the steps that the government anticipates will indeed come, as it is called, immediately, tomorrow morning - I do not mean literally, but in a transferable sense, because time is running out, that we will not then unfortunately find out that we have taken things too late. Then, of course, we will all know why the matter did not come true, because now the government is in such a situation, because it is in an unequal situation - its money is spent to compress its credibility, after all its programme, and nothing itself. I think it is now time for the government to show whether it is serious with this priority, because any waiting would mean that this was possible only on a verbal level, but perhaps it does not. I wanted the Secretary-General to say something else on this account, but, unfortunately, he is not here at the moment; because it is not only a matter of the Ministry of Defence or the foreign ministry, but it is a general matter. The government must function as a whole, because it is not a programme of one ministry after all, but a programme of the Slovenian state. And when we talk about executive power, of course, it's government as a whole. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Peter Levich will ask the next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u117	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. The question is for the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. As we have seen in recent times, as in the world, intolerance and discrimination against homosexuals are also emerging in Slovenia. In the world, these problems have been addressed by the adoption of laws on the registration of same-sex partners; for example, Denmark in 1989, Sweden 1994, Iceland 1996, the Netherlands 1997, Belgium in 1998, France in 1999 and Germany in 2001. The problems of same-sex communities are growing in Slovenia, as there is no regulated partnership, although the partnership is beneficial to society, as it assumes the fulfilment of the interests and needs that are otherwise passed on to a wider society. Nor is the social security of partners or partners regulated, such as the transfer of health, social and pension insurance. Neither are legal property relations regulated, such as the possibility of regulating property and hereditary properties, nor the status of the property, which means that the partner does not have access to the diagnosis of the partner or partner in the hospital, can provide tax relief. Due to all the problems described, which are also accompanied by discrimination and violence against same-sex partners in reality, same-sex partnerships, the status of the owner, social security and the legal property relations of the partners should also be regulated in Slovenia. In addition, there will undoubtedly be a need to ensure that the same-sex content is integrated into the school education system, which will result in a higher limit of tolerance and less violence against them. Question: When and how will the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs systematically regulate the area of same-sex partnerships? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u118	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Mrs Belopavlovič Natashi. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u119	Maybe I'll give you a brief answer, and I promise we'll answer in writing for a longer time. The fact is that within the Ministry a new law on marriage and family relations is being drawn up and that this law is the subject of, in fact, the regulation of other partnerships, i.e. the extra-legal community as one that has been regulated so far. Forward, of course, in this context also the regulation of same-sex communities. In short, within the framework of the law on which it began to work in the Ministry, this issue should also be addressed. More about it, in a way, in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Levich, please, a supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u121	Thank you very much. I'm just curious for a little while. Why did you decide to create a new marriage and not just to amend the law on marriage and family relations, where these same-sex relationships could be involved?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs. Belopavlovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u123	The law is relatively old, the law on marriage and family relations, so it has been said for some time that this law would change completely. However, I must say that in the end, there will even be a solution to just change and supplement the provisions of the existing law, but for now the new law is being considered.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The next question will be put by Mrs Sonja Areh Lavrič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u125	Thank you, Madam President. Dear ministers, representatives of the government, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! I ask the Minister or the Ministry of Environment and Space: How is it possible that your ministry does not take account of the amendments to the budget adopted by this National Assembly? When adopting the budget for 2002, 2003 this National Assembly adopted an amendment which allocates funds at the level - that is to say 3 million 18 SIT for the construction of the Zgornja Vižinga water pipeline, Radlje municipality. You have recently sent a letter from your ministry stating that this money is gone and will not be. Despite the fact that the money in the budget was earmarked. I wonder: Where was the money allocated or directed? We all know that this project is about the upgrading of the Zgornja Wižinga water pipeline - since 1999 - which has also been ensured to the Ministry of Environment and Space that the construction is a priority, but it has not provided sufficient resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u126	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Environment and Space, Mag. Happy Tauzes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u127	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I would now find it difficult to answer this question accurately. However, with us - as with all other budget lines - of course, the funds allocated to infrastructure subsidies, in this case local infrastructure, by special procedure, are given by special invitation to tender. Now, of course, if these funds provided by the amendment in the budget, directly for a particular investment, are possible to be paid in this year or in the coming financial year, this is 2003, we will check and give you a written reply. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Fabjan, next question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u129	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am asking my question to the representative of the Ministry of Economy, and in particular it follows from the question. Why does the state store oil derivatives abroad and at the same time pay high rents, even up to 2 euros, on the fact that in the Republic of Slovenia we have in our own - in the territory of our Republic - some newly built and still unused storage spaces for these purposes? I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u130	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State, Mr. Janez Trček, will give you the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members. I will only be able to answer this question in part today. Probably the issue of Mr Fabjan's question concerns the unscheduled Otovac tanks in Montenegro, and I can say in this regard that if the Ministry of Defence decides to only - give up the Otovac reservoirs - these warehouses will be leased to the public institution for compulsory reserve derivatives, which will only enable and use these warehouses. But we can give a more detailed answer to these questions in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Secretary of State, Mr. Janko Deželak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Member and gentlemen, I can only confirm that the Ministry of Defence is already in the middle of the ownership transfer activity by a government decision to the Ministry of the Economy. Thus, this goal could be achieved in just one very, very reasonable time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u134	Thank you. The next question will be asked by Mr Alojz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u135	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear fellow Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government. On April 4th, we were able to read the news that the Ministry of Agriculture had reduced funds for their operations, such as the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, and then the Institute of Forests and the Veterinary Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, and diverted these funds into direct payments. It's not bad in itself. In the opposition, we can only welcome such decisions from the ministry, but I would nevertheless raise one question. What logic did the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food have to reduce the funds of the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber? It is 115 million and several thousand Slovenian tolars. On the other hand, this same chamber of 60 million Slovenian tolars was indebted at the TOM+5 per cent rate to be able to pay salaries to employees at the Agricultural-Parent Chamber. It's an advisory service, it's a selection service. I ask representatives of the Ministry: What is the new attitude of the Ministry of Agriculture towards the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber? We know that this chamber has been established by law, that all farmers with more than 20,000 catastronomic income have become mandatory members of the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture to pay compulsory membership and that the advisory service and the selection service with the law have been transferred to the Chamber of Agriculture and Agriculture. So what are the purposes of the agriculture ministry with these two services? On the one hand, the Ministry of Agriculture is increasing direct payments and, on the other hand, employees in the advisory service are pushing for more and more of their services to be charged to Slovenian farmers. According to our assessment, this has negative consequences, because if farmers have to pay for agricultural advisory services, they will not serve these services. Since we have, before entering the European Union, we feel that it is very important and necessary for the agricultural advisory service at this time, as far as it remains, to carry out its mission as much as possible and to help prepare Slovenian farmers for entry into the European Union by 2004. Thank you very much. I will finish and thank you in advance for your replies to the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u136	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the Secretary of State, Mr Dark Simoncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. Dear Member Sok! Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The Government has carried out a redistribution of funds from the agricultural advisory service, the selection services, as well as the forest and veterinary services. This was part of the redeployment within the Ministry or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. It's a total of 380 million tolars. These funds have been diverted to the area of direct payments in agriculture in order to reach the same level of support as in the European Union from the negotiating base of the Republic of Slovenia until the entry into the European Union. Therefore, we have also decided on this step because of the fact that services can also occur on the ground in the field of services, it is said that part of the means is obtained by carrying out tasks. Of course, it is not meant here to charge services for basic counselling or basic tasks, but in this case there are various projects or other services. Of course, in this way a price list can also be established, which can also be confirmed. So all the services have been treated equally, and this is also a process that will continue and we will also coordinate with these services. Of course, the question was also aimed at incurring the responsibility of the institution, so why the debt had taken place. So, according to the law, the government has to approve the programme of work of the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber or public services operating within the Chamber and there has been a delay in the preparation of this programme. Therefore, the programme has been approved or reviewed by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and is therefore already being channelled forward, so that we hope that the programme will also be implemented and thus the regular payment of the service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Complementary question, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Well, I was asking for it. See, 380 million tolars in the function of equalizing direct payments, of course, does not mean much. So you can't convince me with this argument that this was done in this direction. However, by means of these funds, which are taken away from these institutions, activities in these institutions can be extremely affected. And I ask, of course, the sense of taking up the 115 million funds earmarked for the operation of this Chamber, while allowing the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber to charge for 60 million under such conditions as I have mentioned, TOM + 5% interest rate. To me, as an opposition MP, such work does not seem logical and I think it is behind something else, especially perhaps for -- I will say this -- for discipline or, I would say, for greater flexibility of the Agricultural-Paradise Chamber. So, I'm asking about the purpose of doing that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Simonchich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. So, as I mentioned earlier, the main aim was to shift funds to direct payments, and, of course, also to carry out the field ministry by additional fundraising. These funds which have been redeployed are reduced in the field of material costs and are therefore not linked to salaries. A transfer of 0.65% to wages was made earlier, according to a government decision - this is said to refer to salaries. This redeployment has no connection with the indebtedness of the institution, as I have explained before, it is said that there is a delay in the adoption of the programme, which is adopted or approved by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia under the Law on the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber. And of course, there were also no other purposes here meant, as you mentioned, so we remain in the first explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u142	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr. France Tsukati [[Mr. Podobnik has waived his right]] . Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! My question is addressed to the Minister of the Interior. Four months ago, I asked you a question about an unusual event in the municipality of Trebnje, where, according to the information available to us, the Mayor of Trebnje persists in ignoring the conclusions of the municipal council. Then, among other things, I stated that two years ago, the mayor, contrary to the decision of the municipal council, appointed the director of the municipal company Trebnje. According to the statute of the municipality and following the decision establishing the public company Komunala Trebnje, the appointment of the director is the responsibility of the municipal council. The complication was informed by the municipal council of Trebnje of your ministry by letter, by a letter dated 6 November 2000 from the Council of Councillors, and requested your intervention. I informed you of this and of other complications of the Trebnje municipality on 18 December last year about the question of the Member States and the photocopies of all relevant documents, but you avoided the issue and you did not want to accept the documents at all. It was a tragic situation when neither you nor the government fully felt responsible for this situation and to contribute to the establishment of the rule of law at local level. Hence, because no one takes action, things run according to Murphy’s law: from bad to worse. On 6 January this year, the municipal council of Trebnje rescinded the mayor's decision to appoint Mr Jarc as Director of the Commune, and then the mayor refused to put to the vote an additional proposal from the councilors to appoint Mr Jože Pavšič as Director of the Commune. Therefore, the municipal council itself convened an extraordinary meeting and on 8 February this year unanimously confirmed Mr Pavšić for v.d. Director of the Commune, in accordance with the statute of the municipality. Instead of respecting the decision of the municipal council, the Mayor of Trebnje, Mr Pungartnik, hired from municipal funds a company for the protection of G7 and legally elected v.d. physically prevented the Director from entering the premises of the Commune. Mr Minister, the sixth paragraph of Article 96 of the General Administrative Procedure Act reads: "The Minister responsible for administration shall decide in disputes between the mayor and the council of the same self-governing local community." So I ask you again: Will you and how you will act? Should the municipal council and the people of Trebnje wait for another government and another minister to establish a legal order? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Representative of the Ministry of the Interior, Secretary of State, Mr Miha Molan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u145	Thank you. Dear Members and Members. Although I know the problem in the congregation of Trebnje in principle, it is part of the work area of local self-government, which I know more in principle, so that I will not be able to give a concrete, complete answer. With regard to intervention in the latter case - the security services of the G7 - in the insurance of the Commune or in the prevention of entry into the company of certain persons - have been dealt with and criminal charges have been brought against the prosecution in this case. Otherwise, other procedures in this regard are being examined and appropriate procedures will be carried out in accordance with the powers conferred on the Ministry. As regards the very settlement of the dispute between the municipal council and the mayor, I will talk to the Secretary of State, Mrs Astrid Prašnikar, who will prepare the appropriate written reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The next question will be asked by Mr Jožef Jerovšek, who is not among us, so I believe that the right to ask the question is being denied. Mr. Branko Kelemina has the floor. Mr. Kelemina, you're next in line for a question of the mission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Just for a little while. I'll be right there. I didn't know it was going to be my turn so fast, because I was the last one, if I'm not mistaken, and it's very fast today. Thank you very much. Respectable all together! Just for a little while. In our country, the government under the leadership of Dr. Janez Drnovska caused a general financial collapse in its ten - year reign. We can no longer talk about transparency and transparency in public finances for a long time. One of the most disorderly areas is general financial discipline or non-discipline. The government has repeatedly promised to make order in this area, but very few battles have been fought in these years. Even more, the financial crisis and financial non-discipline are only deepening from day to day. It is the government itself who does not settle the invoices, nor in these long periods, not 90, 100 days, as far as it has the right under the law on the implementation of the budget. I would ask you: How should an undertaking or an individual who, after the service of the government, in particular the government, issue an account to that same government and there is no payment? He must immediately settle the VAT, pay the material, pay the wages, contributions and so on. Sometimes it is a multimillion - dollar expense, from which the affected should then finance these expenses. Moreover, it is clear that in such an environment it is not possible to operate successfully, and yet Durs, who is the government authority, which is in so-called debtor, issues a decision to block the gypsy accounts and leads a campaign against the supposed debtors. Say: How should those affected operate under such conditions? Who will be responsible for the destruction and liquidation of businesses and the loss of jobs because they simply cannot do so? Is it not possible to arrange that if the government is unable to pay its bills, it will be able to use the nets? Are craftsmen and entrepreneurs really obliged to fund the government without interest? How will the government regulate and put in place a global financial order and discipline in the country? If you can answer that, I guess it's hard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u148	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Ministry of Finance, Secretary of State, Mrs Helena Kamnar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u149	Thank you very much. So at this point, I can say that there is absolutely no reason in this year's budget year for the budgetary users you have in mind to disregard the legal rules regarding payment of their obligations. The liquidity of the State budget is solid and there are no reservations by the Ministry of Finance in terms of liquidity plans and approved quotas that obligations should not be paid within legal time limits. It is true, however, that budgetary users are all obliged to agree on payment deadlines as laid down by the law on the implementation of the budget. These payment deadlines are slightly longer than those which are common in the business practice of companies or companies; but, as I say, this is mainly due to the procedures necessary to get things done because they are more difficult here than those that are normal. If any budgetary user does not comply with the rules in force at this time, then there is a breach of the legislation. It would be appropriate if you have such information to address to a specific budgetary user the requirement to comply with the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Complementary question. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u151	Thank you very much for your answer. I agree with you. But look, it seems to me that even the nineties-day deadline, if there was a pay-as-you-know-in-nine days, is still a very long-distance term, if you take it that way. In fact, why don't you also write down that then the 90-day deadline for the VAT payment and so on - at least when the account payer is the government. At least then we should make such hands as the government approves, including payments, for payments. That's what I think is unacceptable. Pays have to be paid, VAT paid - all these things are financed for three months. You know how much money that is! How much money is that? But it's not just three months. And in this way then force an entrepreneur to rent credits, or where to get money to actually fund all these things, all these expenses - I just don't know. In short, I have many visits in my office to this account, where those who do business with the country warn me that these hands are too long, too long, and that also because they cannot easily pay them all, Dars writes a warrant or blocks an account and also informs all of his business partners of this condition. And then, in fact, it's not possible to relaunch the work process or anything, whatever anyone's dealing with, and it's causing extraordinary problems, and people are thinking about not being left behind, like they're just going to start closing their businesses. I just don't know why individuals and businesses have to finance and credit the government in this way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The deadlines set out in the law on the implementation of the budget are absolutely nothing special in the country of Slovenia compared to other countries. It's just that the state is a reliable mercenary by the rules of things, so it takes a little more time. And the deadlines are simply longer due to procedures required by internal control, internal audit, ex post control and similar procedures, which are characteristic of public or state administration. We have relatively little in our system. When we use the money of the European Union, it will be inappropriate to do so more, and I believe that the deadlines may even have to be extended - in these cases. To go back. As far as VAT payments are concerned, companies or those paying value added tax shall pay it at the end of the next month for the previous month. Thus, there is also no payment from today to tomorrow and a 30-day deadline for payment of obligations, and, of course, there is a possibility that these deadlines may be shorter if there are legitimate reasons, in fact there is nothing special about this. However, I know that it is happening, in particular by some municipalities, perhaps also by national budgetary users, to order a project before funds are made available in the budget. This is totally illegal. And it's not a violation of the deadline, it's a violation of public financial law. Such things are simply not acceptable. And in these cases, it happens that entrepreneurs have to hire loans to finance it; but this is at the heart of illegal behaviour. And besides pursuing such conduct, we simply cannot influence it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u154	Thank you very much. The last one will ask a question, mag. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u155	Thank you very much for your last intention. Because I wanted to know how many ministers would sit here when I asked the question, and I see there are only three if I'm not wrong. I have already protested this once that it would be appropriate for Members and Members to be held accountable by ministers. We have adopted a timetable for the meeting of the National Assembly and, of course, all ministers know when this item will be on the agenda. And it would be good for us to reserve our time - to the legislative branch of power. With their absence, of course, they also somehow show a relationship, that is to say, executive branches of power to the legislative branch of power. I think that this relationship is weak and inappropriate and again I appeal to the leadership of the National Assembly to ensure that ministers are more involved in this point in the future. My question would, however, be addressed primarily to a law that had already been renamed in the novel phase, namely, the law on compensation for victims of war and post-war violence. I myself have been among those who have proposed a novelty of this law, especially in terms of some faster pace of compensation to those victims of war and post-war violence. We know that by law the beneficiaries have the right to compensation, which is divided into cash and non-cash. The cash portion is paid in two instalments; the first instalment should be paid after 15.1.2002. And of course, the second is 150 thousand tolars; and of course the second in one year after the payment of the first and then the later inadvertent in bonds. When I proposed a new law about one year ago that I wanted to make this compensation more dynamic, it was explained to me at my mother's working body and also here in plenary that the law would be implemented in accordance with the dynamics envisaged for beneficiaries to receive compensation decisions in November, December of the previous year and that payment procedures after 15.1.2002 could actually be initiated. As far as I'm concerned, that's not the case. The issue of decisions is, of course, essentially stuck, the dynamics are not what they should be. It is true that some decisions have been taken here to first make decisions to older beneficiaries, to issue decisions and later, of course, to pay off, later on to all others. Although I think this approach is correct, but given that the age of beneficiaries is already quite high and, of course, they expect this compensation as soon as possible, I ask the representative of the Ministry of Finance: How many decisions have been made by the beneficiaries so far? I ask: How many cash payments of 150 thousand dollars have been made so far, and what will be the dynamics of issuing decisions and paying them in the coming months? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Madam Secretary of State, Mr Vizjak, allow only a brief comment. Respect for the executive and legislative authority should, of course, be mutually reinforcing and, with such a legacy as you have, you do not show it today. At least that's how I feel today that criticism was unjustifiable. I give the floor to Madam Secretary of State, Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u157	I can't give you any concrete answers right now because I don't have the data with me. Procedures for issuing decisions in accordance with the law shall be run by the Slovenian Compensation Society. The government will obtain this information and answer all three questions raised in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u158	Thank you very much. A supplementary question, Mr. Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Of course I will. See, this item is called the Initiatives and questions of Members and Members. And, of course, communication on this side is the question, on that side of the answer. That is why you cannot and is inappropriate to comment on reciprocity. For if the government were to question the Members and Members, then your comment would be in place. It's not like that. And that's why I, as the last questioner, want to have the same conditions as someone who asked the first one, or someone who asked the fourth. Not as someone with the ministers' rash on this side more prominently. Therefore, your comment and comment is inappropriate and inappropriate. As far as the answer is concerned, I'm expecting him. And I also ask the Government to intervene with the Slovenian Compensation Society in the light of this dynamic for the reasons I have warned them, especially due to the age of beneficiaries and also due to the heavy expectation of payment, also appeals to the Slovenian Compensation Society after a faster dynamic. I also ask: Does the Slovenian Compensation Society have sufficient resources to pay this cash part of the compensation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mrs. Kamnar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u161	I assure you that, at this point, the resources available for these purposes are not an obstacle to the realization of the payment of these rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-16-SDZ3-Redna-15.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Since we have answered all questions and initiatives by Members and Members, I conclude this item on the agenda. I thank the representatives and representatives of the Government very much for the answers given. I'm adjourning the meeting. We will begin the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. with a special session and a special meeting on the agenda at this meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. [[...]] Thank you very much, and good night.
