ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u1	I ask Members to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly. I'll start my 18th special session. The Internal Policy Committee has concluded its work and re-decision on public sector wages, so that the conditions for the State Assembly to continue its meeting are met. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Place the ballots in the voting devices. So I will have an approximate inspection of the presence in the hall and I will also begin the session. I ask for your kindness and attention! Once again, please place the ballots in the voting devices. My colleagues and colleagues who have not yet come to the hall, please join us. Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon. Good day also to the representatives of the government who are with us, the representative of the Council of State. I begin the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the first and second paragraphs of Article 51 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Some of our colleagues are also absent today. These are colleagues of Possonceva, colleagues Fabjan, Jelinčič, Štemberger, Dr Bernik and colleague Rupar. Everyone else, please insert the voting cards in the voting devices and report your presence by pressing the "quorum" button. Please! I'm picking up a presence in the hall! There are 49 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is therefore concluded and may decide. We will first set the agenda for the 18th extraordinary session and then move on to the 1st item. With reference to 26 April this year, you received a agenda covering only one point, namely the consideration of the proposal for a law on the real estate conversion of insurance companies, following a rapid procedure. We will now first decide on the draft agenda in accordance with Rule 64(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the withdrawals - I have not received the withdrawal proposal - and the enlargements. I have a proposal to expand the agenda. As you know, at its meeting on 3 May, the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia concluded that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it required the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to decide again on the law on the system of public sector wages. By letter of 6 May, I informed you that I would suggest to the assembly that the agenda of the extraordinary meeting be extended by the following item, and this is a re-decision on the law on the public sector wage system. The Slovenian government also proposed the same thing yesterday. I'm asking if the government wants a word. [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the rapporteur, the president of the working body, the Committee on Internal Policy want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] He wants to speak to the secretary of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask whether the representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak, but it is a proposal to expand the agenda. [[They don't want to.]] We will then vote on the proposal to extend the agenda by re-declaring the law on the public sector wage system. I put this proposal to the vote. We are in the middle of a vote on a procedural proposal to extend the agenda. I'm asking for peace in the hall. There are 56 present, of which 50 have supported the proposal and one has opposed it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted and I will propose that we treat it as item 1 of the agenda. The proposal for enlargement also has a colleague of Pec and I give him my word. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u2	Ladies and gentlemen of the court! On 26.4. this year, we presented an initiative to the President of the National Assembly to convene an extraordinary meeting, with a single point, which is the process of privatising banks. Given that we have an extraordinary meeting today, and given that we are convinced in the Slovenian National Party that this agenda item could be considered at this meeting, in particular due to the elements of transparency, legality and constitutionality in relation to the sales procedures of Slovenian banks themselves, I propose that we place this item on the agenda of today's extraordinary meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u4	Dear Members! Our assessment is that, in such a form as the proposed inclusion of such a point in an extraordinary meeting, it is inappropriate. It is our view that it would make sense, if Members want such a hearing, to actually carry out such an in-depth examination, that is, on the basis of the actual documents created during the preparation of the transactions and the specific transactions of the New Ljubljana Bank and the NCBs - although these are documents that are business secrecy, but I do not see any problem - that together with the entire team, the entire privatisation commission, which prepared the entire transaction and also negotiated, would come to the parent committee, to the closed meeting, and would go through all documents and clearly, transparently and unequivocally, what was in the documents, what was agreed on what was the basis of the transaction, and, of course, we will be very pleased to have all the Members who would be interested to know accordingly. My assessment is that this is an important political discussion, but also an expert, complicated discussion that requires special attention, which requires time.My assessment is that it takes at least five to ten hours to fully present all documents, and if you decide to present such a presentation, which is meaningful and which I do not reject, then I really suggest that you decide to in-depth discussion and take a look at all the documents. Of course, we would support such a meeting of the parent committee, which will, of course, be closed because it is business secrets, and we would be very happy to come to this meeting and present all these documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u5	Thank you very much. I must warn my colleague, Mr Pečet, that his initiative, which I received at the end of last month, does not meet the business conditions to put it on the agenda, and this warning, my colleague Peca, is still valid today. If you do not have documents to decide on, then I must find out that your initiative is not justified. Please understand and accept this. Would you like another word? Please. Then I will conclude this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u6	In my opinion, it would be a reasonable justification to leave to the National Assembly and not to you. All I am saying is that the privatisation of banks and, as a result, the increase or change in public debt, as well as the 1994 constitutional laws, are sufficient arguments to ensure that this is done by the National Assembly. However, I agree with Minister Rob, Minister of Finance of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that a preliminary hearing will be held at the home labour body and that a debate will be held after this hearing at the meeting of the National Assembly. I also agree that we are giving a special meeting of the National Assembly for this. In particular, with a view to making the arguments put forward by Minister Rop the arguments on the need for confidentiality, in order to do so within the framework of the home working body. In view of the increase in public debt arising from 1994, through the rehabilitation of the New Ljubljana Bank, the New Bank of Credit, as obligations for citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, which I think they have every right to know what happens to their assets, what happens to their bonds and in the final phase, what happens to public debt. I am therefore convinced that there was still a need for an item on the agenda, whether it should be at this meeting or whether it should be, taking into account the proposal of Minister Rob, that a meeting should be held in advance at the working body and that we will meet at the very quorum of the national assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u7	I think things have been clarified. I will not give the Minister and others a word because, once again, I note this explanation I am obliged to give that there are no business conditions for the National Assembly to decide on your proposal. If the documents or material were in front of us, then the National Assembly would decide in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on Enlargement and thus do not have this option. But I also wanted to warn you this way. If no one else has an extension proposal, I shall put to the vote a full draft agenda. I am putting to the vote the draft agenda in full with the amendments we have adopted. Please, let's vote! 64 colleagues and colleagues are present. 53 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the agenda of the 18th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. I propose that today the assembly meet until the conclusion of the two agenda items discussed. First, we'll decide which order we're going to work on. My proposal is that we decide first on the decision of the State Council, that is to say that we are re-declaring the law on the public sector wage system, and I must point out that the written report is not yet before you. If anyone insists on having it, of course, we will respect it and we will decide on it later, but if the National Assembly accepts that the oral report of the Chairman of the parent committee, our colleague Lavrinc, would then be given as the first point. I ask first of all whether anyone objects that we only hear an oral report, or who requests that we also receive a written report from the committee. If it's oral enough, then we'll decide this point first. I find that no one objects to the fact that a colleague of Lavrinc gives the position of his mother's working body and I ask him to do so. So, please, we're at the rerun - just a moment, Comrade Lavrinc, [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I'm sorry, I have to give the floor first to the representative of the Council of State. [[...]] Please, Dr. Zoltan Jan, you have the floor to explain the Council's request, and then I will give my word to the chairman of the committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! It is a rather ungrateful task for me to justify what has happened today, because today, in fact, the results of the vote have already been announced in Del. Nevertheless, it seems to me that the things identified by the State Council are important enough to suggest that you reconsider what you will decide: Should this law be valid or not? We all agree that this is a very important area and that this segment, the public sector's wages, is urgently needed to regulate and put in place a coherent system as soon as possible. The Minister, who will speak the last word on behalf of the proposer, will also show the many advantages and achievements they have achieved when they have formulated this text. Nevertheless, some things remain open, some such and so important that they can, I think, endanger the work of the whole public sector. It is only a process when it has been coordinated between the social partners. There have been major disagreements here, and as has been said several times in public debates, four of the unions, the representative unions have not agreed to such a solution. This means half of the employees in the public sector. And if one year ago we agreed that, for example, wages in education are disproportionate to other comparable professions, then today is the same thing and is as current as then, by not solving this problem and not asking any questions about them. You also know that doctors have been strike-outs last month and a new sentence is being predicted. If we add to this the issue of discontent in the police union, then we see that this is such an important segment that it is necessary to think seriously about it and to reconsider whether these solutions are such that they allow what we all know is controversial and problematic. It is, of course, a large resource, for one third of the budget, but with these large funds, it must be remembered, however, that these things are quite different than they appear at first sight. This huge sum of public sector wages is not the result of large or excessive wages but, above all, of extensive employment. On average in the state administration, the average paid salary in the state administration is lower than the average paid salary in the Republic of Slovenia. And that, I think, is crucial. What happened in the area of employment, we all know the extent to which these jobs went; I would not mention cases, but I could illustrate with a number of examples, from the school where it came into being, say, after the adoption of legislation at least six completely new state institutions. The same is enough to look at all marble palaces that were built after Slovenia. This is what the economy cannot bear, but not a good and effective worker in the public sector. And here we are, in fact, on a key argument. In the opinion of the Council of State - and today's debate in the Committee has also shown - that the concept of the public sector and what belongs to the public sector are not defined in this law, nor is it what the Ministry claims on behalf of the proposer that this is covered by public servants. Simply, this law also includes officials and here we all agree and support, but it cannot be resolved under the law on public servants, and here is delegated the power of the government, a very important mandate of what belongs to public servants, in the public sector. And, of course, it can happen, after the adoption of the law, that journalists are also part of the public sector. It may come on the day that the public sector also includes a gardener in the Volce Stream and a whole range of other issues. These are things that should be considered and resolved, in our view, already in this bill. Also the key relationship, the key task that this system law is supposed to solve, is to classify wages and show the relationship between profiles - this is not the case. Annex 2 shows only the lower and upper limits, and within the same activity there are so different profiles that the question is what will happen. This is then left to further negotiations between the social partners, but this arrangement is thoroughly replaced by a precise date when the powers to the government or to the national assembly are transferred. This also means, in our opinion, the end of this agreement and what we stand for and what the State Assembly has finally adopted, with its conclusion that each such law can only be dealt with if we agree between the social partners. Of course, the procedure was very quick to accept. In one month, all three hearings were held and, of course, at a time of simultaneous coordination and simultaneous consideration in the National Assembly, it is certain that it was not possible to find and harmonise all interests. Of course, no one is making the illusions that it would be possible to fully realize all the interests, but what is here does not solve what is causing us to strike in the health sector, which is why there is a forecast of unrest and discontent in education and in many other areas of the public sector. The report of the National Assembly has also come under criticism in dealing with the parent's working body, if this is poorly reasoned. This is, of course, just a summary of all those debates and all those broad arguments that have been demonstrated either at the Cankar home assembly or at the public presentation of the opinions drawn up by the National Assembly or at the position taken by the Council of State. So here's the thing. You have already been informed of the arguments, with more precise reasons. One of the most controversial things the law does not solve is, of course, the question of the wage ratio - as I have already mentioned - especially in the field of education and education and, of course, also in health care, the current ratios for at least two years have been cemented here. If it has been warned so far and we have agreed that these relations are unfair or at least pointless, then it is impossible to require such relations to be extended for at least two years, that is, until 2004, when the law is enforced in practice. What is the current situation, perhaps it illustrates the case when we look at the basis for the payment of pensions. If you are looking at the basis between 1981 and 1982, the pension base in education and education is 135,000 tolars. The pension base for 1993 - 2000 is 111,000. More visual and independent calculation than this one is difficult to find. Surely there is a whole series of things here that require that this law cannot be enforced because it does not save what is crucial this month. And, of course, what if I didn't tell the law? If this law has been passed and enforced through a procedure within one month, there is no harm if the National Assembly or the proposer takes another month and then solves those problems that have remained open and for which you are all, I believe that we all want to be solved in this segment. Dear Members and Members, it is up to you to decide whether to allow the motioner some more time to resolve open questions - one month has taken him through all three hearings - or today you will cement for two years, another two years, the current situation. It seems to me that this is an important issue that allows us to avoid conflicts and to ensure the functioning of this country. Such a law, as adopted at the initiative of the proposer, will not allow the functioning of this country, as we all wish and are expected to. The State, the Government and the National Assembly have an essential task to ensure the functioning of public services. This is where things are gonna get tough with this law. Many times it has been shown that the State Council has pointed out things that were then either corrected by changes in the law or abolished in the Constitutional Court, or that life has only shown that they are unrealistic. I hope you won't make a similar decision today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Dr. Zoltan Jan. I would like to take the floor by inviting a representative of the government, Minister Dr. Rad Bohinec. We will then listen to the decision taken by the Committee and turn to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u10	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! No new arguments have been put forward and the government is fully insisting on the starting points on which the legislative text has already been adopted. Above all, it is based on the argument that this is an extremely important system regulation that the State urgently needs for several reasons. One is the need for public financial control in this area, which is a major cost and, on the other hand, for the creation of new incentive levers for better public sector work. Here it was said, and also in the debates on the national world, a type of statement that is not entirely accurate, which does not correspond to the facts. Among other things, that all three hearings were held in Parliament within one month, which you know best that it is not true - the parliamentary debate on this law started already in January of this year and the partnership discussion with the social partners already started in October of last year. More than once, and also to the National Assembly, information was provided that eight of the 12 representative unions, as far as coordination for the harmonisation of this law had been established, had harmonised the law in all articles, but not in two. With regard to the annexes, we have also agreed and have never classified trade unions as large or small, to what extent they represent part of the public sector and to what extent they have formed the coordination of representative public sector unions. And it is right to know that we have had a corrective partnership dialogue with them. We have before us the continuation of this dialogue. We are very concerned that trade unions, which have not recently been involved in the debates on the law, have been more focused on their debates, in the negotiations on individual issues, so that we can also establish dialogue with these issues, because the final system is based on the partnership upgrading of lower implementation levels than we have explained here many times. It will be necessary to start work on a public sector collective agreement setting out indicative jobs immediately on the methodology for job classification and titles, including on industry and professional collective agreements. In short, the system cannot be built without cooperation with the partners and we therefore insist on defining that we are also building it up in dialogue with them. The law brings some important new dimensions into the public sector wage system. Not only those repeatedly mentioned and key to the interests of the State, this is public financial control, where it concerns the connectivity of budgetary procedures with wage-setting procedures on the annual scale, but also those relating to the situation of employees in the public sector, because it is new motivational levers and the preservation of vertical instruments of progress in the field laws. It is also important that the law is aimed at establishing a new relationship, a relationship based on partnership dialogue and analytical basis, until 2008 and by this year, the ratio between the minimum and the maximum wage should also be reduced from 1 to 12 to 1 to 10. These important orientations will be a component of a publicly managed pay system, which brings to the state and taxpayers, as well as economic ties, decisive benefits. That is why, of course, I suggest that even after this reflection, which is certainly legitimate, which has not brought new arguments against this law, you take a decision that will definitively put the law in place so that we can turn to the social partners and continue the implementation debate on the finalisation of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Colleagues and colleagues, you have also received a written opinion on the request of the Council of State for re-decision. I invite the Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee, my colleague Lavrinz, to give an oral report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u12	Thank you. Dear colleagues and colleagues! My report will be brief. I must say, therefore, that after the introduction of the representative of the State Council, who explained why the Council of State had taken such a decision and, of course, the reasons why such a law was necessary by a representative of the Government, the Members of the various parliamentary groups have reiterated the opinion expressed at the time of the adoption of this law, which is, of course, a majority opinion, so that the law must be supported because it is the first step out of the chaos of public sector wages. The view was also expressed that this time the State Council was overly casual in dealing with these matters and in this way almost misused its role, while opposition representatives said why they still felt they could not support it. That would be brief. Secondly, the Committee adopted, by a large majority, a proposal for a decision which it proposes to Members and Members of the National Assembly to re-vote, in accordance with Article 91 of the Constitution, for the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. We're moving to the vote. The explanations of vote will be possible. Before this, I would like to point out that, in order to adopt that law, a majority of the members of the assembly must vote in favour of the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in order to adopt that law, i.e. 46 or more. Now I'm going to give my word for an explanation of vote. First the session was signed up for by her colleague Peca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u14	Thanks again for saying that. Before re-decision on the law on the public sector wage system, I would ask, on behalf of the Group of Members, for an hour of recess, in particular because of the argument made by Mr Lavrinc, that his report and our Group of Members between 9 a.m. and 9 a.m., when the mother's working body met, we were not yet able to review the developments. That's why I'm asking for an hour before the decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u15	Is it possible to continue with item 2 of the agenda, or do you want to insist that the holiday is now set? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u16	Given that today's session has only two points, I'd like to ask for an hour of recess so that we can get out of these premises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u17	Okay. At 11.40 a.m., the National Assembly will decide. Before I take a break, I'm gonna ask you, does anyone else want to explain their voice? I think we should finish this part of the procedure. Please, colleagues and colleagues? Does anyone else want to explain their vote before the vote? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. At 11.40 a.m., the National Assembly will decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u18	We'll be separated for a few minutes by 11:00 and 40 minutes when I detect presence in the hall, so I invite you to come and notify your presence. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, it is 11 and 41 minutes, so the conditions are met for the State Assembly to continue the meeting. First, I'll determine the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! The National Assembly is adjourned. There are 66 colleagues and colleagues present. The hour of recess was requested by the national party's parliamentary group and I invite my colleague Pečet to communicate his views. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u19	First, I would like to thank you for understanding that you have given us this pause. On the other hand, I would like to say that despite Mr Bohinc's opening remarks and despite Mr Barovic's high-quality report on the events of the working body that took place this morning in this area, we are not in the Slovenian National Party and we do not find any good reason to support this law. According to our belief or we remain convinced from the third reading, we will break the labour market in the Republic of Slovenia by means of a bill or by law at the time of today's adoption, thus contributing to instability in the public sector and consequently to greater inflation in our country. We will not support the draft law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u20	Thank you very much, buddy. I've already asked if anyone wants a word. I'll do it again. Please, you have the floor for a brief explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u21	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I think we are repeating ourselves, but once again it is right to say that in our parliamentary group, Novi Slovenija, we have been warning from the outset that the urgency of adopting the law on the public sector wage system is not good. The law has indeed been on the rise for many years, but it has been practically adopted in a short period of time, and if the law has been in preparation for quite some time, which Mr Minister likes to admit, I think it should also mature in the legislative process. True, it was nearing the end of April, but the government should count on it sooner. Negotiations with all unions have not been concluded until the third hearing, and we believe that in such a situation it is not possible to adopt a good system law that is urgently needed to regulate public sector wages. Throughout all the discussions, we have warned that the proposed solutions do not allow wage regulation as we believe that relations are not such and that the so-called single payment system is not uniform and that the concept of the public sector is not pure and definitively defined. In doing so, I am also referring to the inclusion of RTV journalists among government officials, and probably someone else. We have warned that the law does not allow for this decision in the local community, and we have expressed concern for employees in the 15 lowest wage classes and have warned of a possible increase in the state budget, due to this law. The Council of State was aware of the consequences of a bad marriage. Therefore, it is not surprising that the veto is postponed, which means that this matter must still be discussed and a greater agreement with the trade unions. Our Group is aware that new sentences, white sentences, protests and dissatisfactions can begin with the adoption of the law, so we will not support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u22	Thank you very much. A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u23	Mr President, I will uphold the law myself. I use this procedure only to point out that we have given ourselves by giving the floor to the parliamentary groups to explain their voices on a very slippery path, which could mean a second debate. In the process of enacting laws, there is a special procedure when there is a veto vote and it is virtually impossible what is happening at this time, so I would really like to point out that people on personal behalf can explain their vote, otherwise it will be possible for someone in procedures that this law will eventually apply elsewhere as a procedural error.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u24	The general debate was closed. At this point in the adoption of the law, explanations can be given to the vote. The leaders of the parliamentary groups or representatives were not given a word, and therefore each member has the right to receive a word within five minutes of the vote, and I also gave it to her; and her colleague Zupanov received the floor as a member. I'm asking if anyone else wants a word. If we don't, we'll go to the vote. Okay. We're moving to the vote. Once again, I would like to point out to the National Assembly that a majority of the members of the assembly should vote in order to adopt that law in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of Slovenia, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. Excuse me? Just a minute! During the vote, you raised your hand. What's wrong with the card? You raised your hand during the vote. If I'd ended it, I wouldn't have taken a minute off. I'm asking the Technical Service to come in and see if there's anything wrong with your voting device. Please, technical service. I'm with a colleague of mags. Visionary. Can you see what's wrong, please? [[...]] Is he okay? Okay. Let's re-vote. We will vote on the adoption of the law. Once again, there must be 46 or more Members for the adoption of the law. Let's vote in favour or against the adoption of the law. There are 75 colleagues and colleagues present. 53 voted in favour, 20 against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the law has received the necessary support. It was voted on by 53 Members and Members of Parliament. The law has been adopted and I hereby conclude this item on the agenda. We're moving on to one. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law on property reshape of insurance companies. This proposal for a law shall be tabled in a rapid manner. The bill was proposed by the government to the assembly. Does the government want a word? Please, Minister Mag. Tone Rop.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u25	Dear Members! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is proposing to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law on the real estate conversion of insurance companies following a rapid procedure. This is an extremely important law, a law whereby we will determine the ways and procedures for determining the share of social or undeclared capital of insurance undertakings, as well as the ways and procedures for the distribution of so-called social or un-nominated capital of insurance undertakings among individual equity beneficiaries. This is a law with which we will end more than a decade, a substantial long period, a period in which social capital in insurance companies did not have and could not have its representatives and therefore managed and had only minority shareholders or owners with certain insurance companies. In such a long period of time, there have undoubtedly been a lot of business changes, decisions and events, as well as many important changes in the balance sheets of insurance companies, and it is therefore, with each year, month and week, with each capital change in the structure of insurance companies, it is more difficult and more complicated to identify and ensure the correct and correct relationship between social and private capital, as shown in the balance sheet on 1.1.1991. Dear Members! We believe that it is high time for us to decisively stop and end property insecurity and non-transparent insurance companies and to determine how much social capital there is in insurance companies, how much the relationship between nominated and unnominated capital is, to clearly determine the final owners and to ensure that all Slovenian insurance companies are properly developed and managed, which will be decided by the actual and, in particular, majority owners of these. Last but not least, by eliminating the legal void and inadequacy that we have witnessed so far, we prevent the further evaluation of unnominated or social capital. It is also a matter of obtaining a clear and transparent ownership structure in the field of insurance, thereby providing a clear and transparent management structure that will be responsible and safe, in line with the interests of the insurers, as well as of the right and all owners, to manage the insurance companies. This is an essential prerequisite for faster development and greater competitiveness of all insurance companies and the entire Slovenian financial system. There is also no doubt that the competitive rate of insurance undertakings to other markets, as well as the equal and competitive integration of the Slovenian financial system with the European system in the future, is not possible without a clear, well-known and transparent ownership and management structure of insurance undertakings. Dear Members! Insurance companies in which un-nominated capital exists were created at the end of 1990 by the transformation of the wealth and personal insurance community and the reinsurance community into equity companies. Statusal transformation was carried out on the basis of a law on basic systems of property and personal security, which undertook to bring their organisation, business and acts into line with the legal provisions by 31.12.1990 at the latest. The transformation took place by the legal and natural persons, the founders, taking a decision on the establishment of a share insurance company and investing in an initial, security fund. These persons thus acquired the position of shareholder. Although the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has already adopted a law on the property transformation of insurance companies, the Constitutional Court suspended the enforcement of the contested provisions of the law on 18.5.2000 and repealed the law on 19.4.2001. In its decision, the Constitutional Court underlines that the expected ownership rights under the existing constitution and practice of the court should be considered as legally protected rights. Therefore, in the new legislation, the legislator must also take into account the entitlements of persons with regard to the ownership of social capital, which is mainly based on Articles 123 and 123a of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Property and Personal Insurance System of 1990. In preparing the law, we followed the requirements of the Constitutional Court, as well as the fact that, in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court, the initial relationship between the known share capital and the undeclared capital is required to be fixed on 1.1.1991, which is provided on the basis of the balance sheet of the insurance undertaking on that day. As a starting point for determining the relationship between equity and undeclared social capital, account is taken of the state of assets and resources at 1.1.1991 as shown in the accounts of the individual insurance undertaking. For the purposes of determining the capital belonging to the unspecified capital, the information on the extent of the funds presented in the accounts of the insurance undertaking shall be used in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court and the acts on the conversion of the insurance undertakings into shares companies. The insurance companies which were operating after conversion to profit companies only shared this with known shareholders. The unallocated portion of the profit belonging to the unspecified capital shall be regarded as a claim and shall be converted into capital by law in the form of a real investment at the time of its creation. In this way, capital adjustments shall be made instead of setting up monetary liabilities for insurance undertakings to future owners of undeclared capital to pay previously unpaid dividends. These reconciliations of equity between equity and undeclared capital shall be carried out by the Slovenian Audit Institute in accordance with legal criteria for the period from 1.1.1991 to 1.1.2001. On the basis of a harmonised relationship, the government shall determine by decision such necessary changes in the basic capital of the insurance undertaking, reflecting the proper ownership structure by which the owners of the expected ownership rights will acquire new shares. Following the determination of the share of the unspecified capital, the Slovenian Compensation Company acquires temporary ownership of the trustee for unspecified capital. This gives the opportunity, immediately after determining the share, to participate in the management of the insurance undertaking through its representative, the custodian, until the transfer of the shares to each individual beneficiary. In this way, the participation of undeclared capital in the management of insurance undertakings shall be ensured as soon as possible, in proportion to the share of the total capital. The introduction of a trustee thus allows a faster achievement of an important objective of the law: to enable insurance undertakings to have the status of a legally defined entity and to ensure equal participation of undeclared capital in deciding on possible status changes. The second reason for the establishment of the Trustee Institute is simplification and a significant reduction in the procedures for the allocation of unspecified capital to beneficiaries. The custodian, who is a qualified institution, shall carry out all procedures for the distribution of shares within the statutory time limits and shall, in particular, act as a party to the procedure. Such guardian status allows the ownership of insurance undertakings to be carried out quickly, since, otherwise, the owners of the expected entitlements, individual insurers, would be able to delay the entire property transformation by possible appeal procedures for an unknown period of time. The custodian and the insurance undertaking shall represent the rights of existing shareholders and ownership beneficiaries in all proceedings, including complaints about the registration of the property change in the register. However, at the time of determining the shares to the individual beneficiary, the procedures for each of these persons by nature may run completely separately. Therefore, the possible duration of the resolution of one person’s situation cannot prevent procedures concerning other persons, but in particular does not violate the property status of insurance undertakings and does not restrict their recapitalisation procedures. The honourable Members, Members, the Law on the Property Transformation of Insurance Insurance is not only important to determine the relationship between undeclared and nominated capital in insurance companies. The importance of this law is much greater. By implementing this law in Slovenia, we complete an important part of the property transition processes in the financial system. We have important influence and determine who, how and on what basis will have an important part of Slovenian insurance companies and the financial system in full. The answer, of course, is clear. These are the legal and natural persons who participated in the payment of premiums that participated in the growth and development of insurance companies. It cannot and must not be allowed that in the last decade some individuals or groups of individuals without a factual basis, without sufficient investment, will take over practically the important part of our financial system. This is unacceptable, both in terms of legal ethics, in terms of the most meticulous economic justice, as well as in terms of promoting the long-term development of the financial economic system as a whole. While it is true that those who have supported and enabled their development by their capital investments in insurance companies in the early 1990s receive proportionate equity shares and comparable expected returns, it is by no means permissible that such investments, to anyone, constitute the right or opportunity to subsidise or devalue social capital, should try this through legal or capital property changes. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The bill before you allows for the correct and rapid implementation of the property transformation of insurance companies. It takes account of the Constitutional Court's decision, enables participation in the property conversion of insurance undertakings to those who have participated in their strengthening during the 1970s and 1980s, and provides suitable shares for those who cooperated in their capital consolidation in the 1990s. In particular, it ensures such ownership and management structure of insurance undertakings that will not privilege anyone and exclude anyone in advance. Which will ensure an adequate share of undeclared or social capital and, last but not least, allow for the full release of the development potential of Slovenian insurance companies for the benefit and benefit of insured persons, economies and all Slovenian citizens. I therefore propose that you adopt the proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft law was examined by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I invite Mr Puck, President, to present the opinion of the Committee. Please, buddy Pucka.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! That law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the procedure, was discussed by the mother labour body at two meetings, on 11 April and at its meeting on 24 April of this year. Following an introductory explanation by the Government, the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs was forwarded to the Committee at the outset of the first meeting, which, in the light of Article 175 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that the proposal for a law contains all-inclusive mandatory components. The introductory part contains a specific section 2 - A summary of the content of the legal provisions, which also contains some additional elements, assessments of the state and reasons for the adoption of the law and the objectives and principles of the law, and a specific explanation is added, as well as chapter 4 at the end of the material. In the general debate, the following was highlighted in particular at the meeting of the Committee. In the context of the rapid procedure, most discussers considered that the property transformation of insurance companies needed to be regulated quickly and transparent, taking into account the above-mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court with regard to the repeal of the law on the conversion of insurance undertakings imposing the same valuation of both private and social capital on the legislator. In addition, the view was expressed that the concept based on the determination of the value of the total capital in insurance companies, both private and social, based on the opening balance sheets by the static method, is correct and indicates a solution to the issue of the property transformation of insurance undertakings, which requires us not only to adapt our legislation to Europeans, but also to strengthen the Slovenian insurance market. In addition, it was pointed out that there was a type of ambiguity from here on in the marriage text. With regard to the implementation of the proposed legal solutions, the question arises as regards the determination of the share of nominated and unnominated capital in the entire capital of insurance undertakings, as well as the further determination of the share of individual beneficiaries, insurers, including natural persons, in the context of the allocation of unnominated capital. As a basic principle for determining the value of the entire capital of insurance undertakings, the applicant has determined the value of the opening balance in the event of the exit of a known shareholder, as well as in the case of the way in which the right of insurers, legal persons is exercised, and has used different criteria until the acquisition of the new shares of the insurance undertaking. The question was also raised, for which professional reasons the government did not decide to identify the nominated capital under the key provided for in Article 15 of the Act, which provides for the retirement of known shareholders, since in this case the share of the undeclared capital would be more favourable than envisaged. In view of the proposed concept of law, the government is likely to have certain calculations regarding the ratio of nominated and unnominated capital, and therefore a question has been raised to government representatives regarding the expected relationship between the two forms of capital and the expected relationship between the individual types of equity beneficiaries under the unspecified capital. All these questions were addressed by the Minister of Finance and other government representatives. In particular, it was based on Dr Dusan Mramor's prepared professional base, which according to the Constitutional Court's decision, which defines 1.1.1991 as the date of the finding of the relationship, both the static method on the basis of the opening balance sheet and the dynamic method on the basis of the valuation of insurance undertakings can be used. The Minister drew attention to the weaknesses of the second, very long-term methods, the final result of which would be completely uncertain, and in the meantime we should address the additional problem with the necessary recapitalisation of the largest insurance undertaking in particular. The simulation of the initial share of unspecified capital in the insurance company Triglav on Day 1.1.1991, without taking into account dividends and recapitalisation, shows 70% of the social capital and 30% of the private capital. Taking into account the dividend and recapitalisation payments made at the end of 2001, this ratio changes to 85% to 15% in favour of social capital. In doing so, the government has decided to increase the share of undeclared capital on the basis of an unallocated portion of the profits belonging to the un-nominated capital, thereby establishing the harmonisation of capital rather than the establishment of monetary liabilities for insurance undertakings to future owners of un-nominated capital to pay outstanding dividends so far. As regards the duration of the distribution of the share among the ownership beneficiaries, the representative of the Government pointed to the basic starting point of the Constitutional Decision, which is to take into account the premiums paid, but the law submitted does not take into account the whole period from 1976 to 1990, since it is virtually impossible to obtain data on all insured during this period, and in particular on natural persons. With regard to the protection of the constitutionality of the law, the proposed solution of Article 15 provides for an alternative option for known shareholders to swap shares for cash, thus taking this investment of shareholders into account as an investment in a bank that is adequately remunerated. When asked whether such a method could be used within the meaning of the whole law, the Minister of Finance pointed out the inappropriateness of such a solution. In fact, investors in the insurance undertaking were able to weigh their decisions between different investments and to decide on the basis of the then known data, i.e. taking into account the opening balance sheets, the success balance sheet, the possible loss of the insurance undertaking during that period and the amount of premiums. The share on the basis of the balance sheet at the time was known to investors, so their expected rights were not violated in any way or the expected yield at that time. According to the government's explanations, the Committee was of the opinion that there is still no clear answer to the question of how the share of undeclared capital will be technically shared between legal and natural persons. There was also skepticism regarding the readiness of insurance companies to provide relevant data on insurers from 1990. The question of determining the relationship between legal persons and natural persons is also raised if the latter is to be governed by another law. It is also not clear how insurance policies are evaluated by individual natural persons, since without such data the sharing between legal and natural persons is questionable. The price of shares for legal and natural persons is also questioned. The proportion of legal persons is the subject of the proposed legal material and the distribution of shares is left to the specific law and further clarification is needed. All of these explanations were also duly provided by government representatives in the context of the general debate, and further to or at the next meeting, certain calculations were also made by the Agency for the Control of Company Property Conversion. In view of the fact that the Committee received the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs at the beginning of the 20th meeting, which was launched and concluded on 11 April this year, the Committee adopted at the end of the general debate a conclusion that the Government takes into account the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Debate on the Committee itself, and in this regard also proposes appropriate amendments to take into account the comments or proposals made in the general debate of the Committee, in particular as regards the issue of ensuring an equal and fair basis for the distribution of unnominated capital between legal and natural persons, or as regards the definition of the manner in which natural persons participate in the distribution of unnomined capital among the beneficial owners. At its 21st meeting, the Committee discussed the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of 17.4.2002 following the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and the amendment to the 21st Article, followed by a discussion by the Government at the 20th meeting of the Committee on the eligibility of natural persons for premiums paid to the insurance undertaking. At that meeting, an additional opinion was also sent to the members of the Committee by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, dated 23.4.2002, which points out that the applicant did not state the reasons for not having regard to the comments made on Articles 9, 11 and 15. This meeting also divided the minutes on the procedure for the partial verification of the legality and regularity of the implementation of the rules governing the financial and social property of the insurance undertaking Triglav d.d., Ljubljana, 6.3.1998, the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the revision of the business property, by letter from the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the revision of the business property of 11.4.2002. Thus, members of the committee were also able to get acquainted with the content of this and the findings. Members, as I mentioned earlier, have received from the Ministry of Finance a calculation of the harmonisation of undeclared capital in accordance with the proposal of the law in question, namely the harmonisation of the share of the outstanding capital of the insurance company Triglav d.d., throughout the capital, but it would suggest that similar calculations should also be made for the other insurance and reinsurance undertakings referred to in Article 1 of the bill. Following the discussion on the labour market, all plans agreed that the law should be adopted as soon as possible in order to avoid further damage to social capital. In doing so, some members of the Committee reiterated that the establishment of foreign experts for the revision of insurance companies would result in further loss of time and return to the starting point, with the risk of further damage to social capital. Thus, the lack of confidence in the government could result in further damage to social capital in insurance companies. It was also pointed out that, in the case of insurance companies for shareholders which, as legal entities, operate independently on the market and the government does not have data on unpaid premiums, on late payments, on loans to insurance undertakings and other data. This is the autonomy of market operators in which the government cannot interfere under our legislation. In addition, a large-scale discussion has also been developed with regard to the powers of the Slovenian Institute for the Revision referred to in Article 3 of the draft law, in conjunction with Article 9, relating to its powers under the applicable legislation and interferences in the event of sanctions where the insurance undertaking would not comply with its obligations under the proposed law. A particular discussion was also held with regard to the decisions of Article 18 of the draft law governing the powers of a Slovenian compensation company which takes over undeclared capital and manages and disposes of it until the final transfer of shares to beneficiaries, to legal persons, to natural persons and to the State. Finally, in accordance with the procedure, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy discussed all amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and supported these amendments, namely Articles 9, 11, 12, 15, the three amendments to Articles 17, 18, 21, 22, 24, 26 and 27. The Committee also took some additional comments from the secretariat on the legislation and legal affairs of the National Assembly in the Government's amendments, namely Article 10, Amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Article 11 and Amendments to Articles 11, 18 and 19 of the Act. On behalf of the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Finance and Monetary Policy, I propose that the National Assembly consider and adopt, together with the amendments of the Committee and the amendments supported by the Committee, the draft law on the realisation of insurance undertakings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u28	Thank you very much. He wants to speak to the secretary of the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] Before I call on the representatives of the Group, I would like to ask your attention. In accordance with Article 204, amendments were subsequently tabled at the end of the work of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. The National Assembly may also decide to issue a mother’s working body with regard to the amendments. I suggest we find out by 1 p.m. whether anyone will make such a proposal so that we can then try to use the rest time to meet the mother's working body. This would make it easier for us to organise a national assembly that decided today to conclude a meeting on the proposal for a law. Thank you very much for your attention. I now invite representatives of the groups of Members to the floor. First, I give my word to my colleague, Dr. Bayuk. My colleague, Dr. Bajuk, will present the views of the New Slovenia Group, after which he will be given the floor by his colleague Vnučec to present the views of the youth party's parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u29	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister and representatives of the government! Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is high time we finally tackle these open issues of property in the insurance sector. However, time pressure must not cloud our judgment, especially not our determination to resolve these open issues in a fair, transparent manner, in accordance with the principles of justice and equality before the laws of the rule of law. The Coalition Slovenia proposed a law on the ownership of insurance companies at the first hearing of the Subcommittee of the National Assembly on Ownership and Privatisation and supported the first meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy in terms of the stated objectives to be achieved by this Act. We have already noted that the proposal for a law in its explanatory memorandum does not contain any data, no financial assessments have been made by Members, at least in principle, to verify whether the short-circuited methodology in the interpretation of the law to properly establish the relationship between share capital and social capital and the correct sharing of profits can lead to the stated objectives of the law. Even in the second reading of the law on the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, the Government has not fully completed its explanations of the law. The various financial assessments made by Mr Finance Minister at these meetings of working bodies and in the public, which were also summarised by all media, have not been recorded by the government in any of its documents. Since in the last ten years and prior to the consideration of the repealed first law on the property conversion of insurance companies, much information was available on the irregularities in insurance companies, particularly in the largest, the Coalition of Slovenia had to obtain the official information itself within a short period of time available for the consideration of the current law under the rapid procedure. This is about the records of the checks carried out by the Agency for the Revision of Property Transformation of the Republic of Slovenia in insurance companies from 1990 to 1996. The minutes of the reviews carried out by that agency for a later period did not wish to submit them to us because they were not intended to be definitive, since it simply terminated its examinations by repealing the previous law which had set out specific tasks. The Agency could, of course, continue its task of regularity and legality in the social capital business by virtue of its official duty, even on the basis of its own findings, even if the business in insurance companies was to be irregular or illegal. The records, which are not definitive, were therefore not visible to us. Mr President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, despite our initiative, did not wish to invite the Agency's responsible representatives to the meeting. In spite of our initiative, he did not want to invite the Slovenian Institute for Audit Committee to a meeting, which, as its extraordinary task under this law, would essentially be the most important professional task. Since we are convinced that the Slovenian Institute for Audit is the most professional in presenting the implementation of the law, it is not clear why he was not present at the meeting of the Committee on Finance. Therefore, at the second meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, we again requested a written presentation of the assessments orally made by the Minister of Finance and the Secretary of State. We didn't get them. In the following meeting, the Secretary presented to us a table on one sheet showing them, and I quote, "results in simulations of the harmonisation of the undeclared capital share of the entire capital of the insurance company Triglav on the basis of a proposal for a draft law". This data was not signed by any one of the ministries, signed by one auditor of the Property Conversion Agency, which means that they were not signed by the authorised persons, the Director or the Deputy Agency who are elected and responsible to this National Assembly. However, the audit agency no longer has any duties under the proposed law. All that would be called for will be carried out by the Slovenian Institute of Audit on the basis of the financial statements sent to the Agency for Payments for Statistical Purposes. Therefore, we want the Secretariat of the National Legislative and Legal Assembly to present before the Assembly an official position on the legal validity of the document submitted by Mr State Secretary of the Ministry of Finance in the simulation of the results of this law in the case of one insurance undertaking. We must say that this document does not have any professional value, as it gives only results, shares of social capital to be determined by law on the basis of the adjustments made by dividends. It does not show the methodology, nor does it indicate how irregularities have been taken into account in calculations, such as the misaligned effects of revalorisation on both types of capital identified by the audit agency in its records. While the Secretary of State tried to orally explain the methodology to us and to substantiate that they had chosen a methodology for correcting the shares of both types of capital, on which irregularities, such as the illegal distribution of the effects of revalorisation, would not have an impact. His explanations were incomprehensible or more specifically, the answer did not refer to the above-mentioned problem question. This conclusion also occurs after multiple readings of the magnetogram. He was referring to the rebalancing of profits that had not been allocated to social capital in individual years. We were not talking about the rebalancing of profits, although it would also be economically identified and prescribed, but about the revalorisation of the capital of the funds that was identified and distributed before the profits were shared. But why is such speculation necessary? Why the government or the Ministry of Finance does not explain in its document, for example, the calculation of the capital ratio adjustments on the data known from the records of the audit agency. The record for the Triglav Insurance Company shall state the information which shows that they have been unlawfully or illegally proved. The correct data are also not calculated and the calculations of the corrections can be found in the records of other insurance or other property transformation auditors. Let me mention that the auditor interpreting the simulation of the relationship between the two types of capital for the purposes of the government was also the same auditor, who did not calculate the irregularities reported in the record of the Triglav Insurance Company, but merely described them. Nevertheless, there is sufficient evidence in the Agency's records for the period 1990-1996 that the objectives of the proposed law cannot be achieved on the basis of incorrect and illegal financial statements. The partial checks carried out by the Agency for the Revision of Enterprise Property Conversion in the verification of the legality and regularity of the implementation of the rules governing the financial operations of the insurance undertaking for the years 1990 to 1996 clearly show that the data to be the basis for the implementation of the new law is implausible. Data on the financial statements that have been shown in the administration or management of insurance undertakings in individual years are incorrect and illegal to such an extent that, according to our assessment, they do not enable the achievement of the defined objectives of this Act. The reviews were carried out on an official basis, as this agency is competent to verify the legality and regularity of the business of legal persons who still have undeclared social capital. The focus of the checks was on capital and profit sharing, with a view to verifying the content and structure of the capital or the amount of the social capital allocated to the ownership. However, it should be noted that the Agency did not have the same methodological approach for all insurance companies. For example, in smaller insurance companies, for identified irregularities and illegality, she did not make calculations, but did not do so with the largest insurance company Triglav; she did not make correct calculations and only wrote down or reported that the data in the accounts were illegal and incorrect. This methodological approach of the Agency, in our view, is not in line with the principles of the supervisory procedure established for its functioning or the principles of the general administrative procedure and does not justify the mission it is expected to have as its successor in the area of the revision of property transformation. Surely you can be excused for such an approach with the words "this is only a partial review". According to the previous law on the ownership of insurance companies, the Agency has been given explicit powers and tasks in carrying out the ownership procedure. It has already begun with them, but, as I have already mentioned, it has stopped them after the repeal of the law by the Constitutional Court. The supervisory procedures with a view to demonstrating the correct amount of undeclared social capital in insurance companies are also not followed by the Agency's official duty. The Agency's findings allow it to conclude that the authorised economic auditors have not complied with all international auditing standards, which are part of our legal order, in their audit of the financial statements of insurance undertakings. In particular, they did not take into account the following: IAS-250, compliance with the laws and other regulations in the audit of the accounts and IAS-40, the auditor’s responsibility for dealing with fraud and errors in the audit of the accounts. We must mention that the audit of financial statements by authorised auditors or audit firms was mandatory for insurance companies under the Company Act only in 1995, when they started to demonstrate their business according to Slovenian accounting standards by two-year delay. By the end of the year, they were in charge of accounting and were operating under the former federal accounting law, which was part of our legal order. The 1989 SFRJ Accounting Act was applicable in the public sector until 1999. This law made it possible, from a substantive point of view, to properly demonstrate the business success of the assets and the obligations to the resources of the funds, but was violated by the insurance companies. The provisions of the statutes governing matters under the law were also violated. Insurance companies also ordered an audit with authorised auditors before 1995. The insurance company Triglav entrusted this to the Austrian audit company. The audit agency shall report that the insurance undertaking Triglav did not allow it to review the audit reports of this foreign audit house. It allowed her to look only at the audit opinion cited in the minutes. The opinion that this foreign audit house has written down, however, is based on our assessment in contravention of international auditing standards. It would be good if the competent experts of the Slovenian Institute for Audit submitted their views on the audit opinions cited above, although we are aware that they are not obliged to do so on an official basis. Of course, we must be aware that the authorised economic auditor in the audit does not make corrections if management does not wish to. The management is responsible for the correctness of the accounts. The auditor is only obliged to express his opinion on the accounts. Where management is not prepared to correct the financial statements, the auditor shall remind it of this urgency, of course, the financial statements shall not give a fair picture. The result is that the auditor does not give a positive opinion or an affirmative opinion. In view of the nature of the findings, it may give an opinion with reservation, a negative opinion or an opinion. This is where the data and other evidence do not allow him to create a real picture. For example, on page 10 of the minutes for Adriatic d.d., we find the opinion of the auditor, which reads: "We cannot express an opinion on the real and fair presentation of the financial situation on 31 December 1993 and the business outcome for the year ended with this date of Adriatic d.d. insurance company. Copper." Let me repeat: the authorised economic auditor is carrying out an audit for the owners. In the case of insurance undertakings, only shareholders participating in the recapitalisation took part in this function, and there is an additional reason why their opinion cannot be considered as an appropriate basis for an assessment of the fair and true picture of the statement of undeclared social capital from 1990 onward. In order to determine the correctness of the business outcomes of insurance companies, it is also very important that the opinion of authorised insurance companies determining whether the insurance undertaking has created sufficient insurance provisions at the expense of its business expenditure. These are not too low or too high. These opinions were not provided by insurance companies in all years. The opinions that have been issued have not always been valid, nor have they always been disclosed to the Agency’s inspectors. For example, for 1990, the Agency's minutes do not mention the opinion of the insurance actors. In the 1991 Business Year Review, the Agency noted that the Administration of Insurance Triglav simply, I quote, "did not submit an opinion to the insurance actors". These opinions are then found in 1992 and 1993 and in 1994 the story of the administration, which did not submit the opinion of the actors, is repeated and so on. However, without a positive opinion from the actor in our opinion, the authorised economic auditor cannot confirm a fair and genuine picture of the accounts. The findings show that the recapitalisation of insurance undertakings carried out in 1990, 1991 was not fully credible under the requirements of the then applicable federal law. The so-called shareholders did not, at least not all or in all insurance companies, make a real payment of the shares. The insurance companies authorised them to purchase the shares of the loan. In fact, the purchase of shares took place only in the so-called Share Book. This is illustrated in the record of Tillia d.d. Her first stock buyers received a loan for their purchase and simply did not pay it back in full. Therefore, the same shares were resold by the management in the same way by granting loans. This operation repeats itself. They did not keep records of the borrowers; they were only produced at the request of the Agency. However, its findings show, for example in 1990, that Tilia granted 29 companies a loan of EUR 1,300 million for the purchase of 1,300 shares. These are supposed to be revalued and remunerated. At the end of 1996, companies in Tilia had a total of 16 million tolls of outstanding SITs of 2.6 million and of natural persons of 13.5 million, and this can be verified in the minutes on pages 35 and 36. On display, the Agency's inspector recorded [[Quote]] : "There is also no analytical record to show the initial situation, turnover and final situation of individual borrowers, so the accuracy and consistency of the data in the business books and the review of the movement of long-term credits for shares from 1991 to 1996 cannot be confirmed. Tilia d.d. It has not maintained business books since 1 January 1995 in accordance with the provisions of Article 51 of the Insurance Act, since it did not comply with the provisions of Articles 50 and 54 of the Company Act which prescribe the application of Slovenian accounting standards." [[End of quote.]] In the record of Adriatic d.d. insurance, for example, we find that this, on the contrary, reduced the share capital when potential shareholders did not pay it. However, there are no major irregularities in the payment of shares in the record of the insurance company Triglav or the method of payment is not specifically described. It should be verified whether new shareholders in this insurance undertaking have not used a different method of deferral of payment, i.e. the non-payment of their premiums or any other loans received from the insurance undertaking. Insurer Triglav has very high adjustments and write-offs on claims for insurance premiums and other placements or investments [[a little more in advance]] , which was particularly large for the critical year 1990, when the insurance community Triglav wrote down much more claims than the uncovered loss, which then reduced the undeclared social capital and provided the basis for the story of eleven years. Why are we even mentioning this today? Simply because, in our opinion, the shareholders could be the ones who actually paid the shares. The insurance community Triglav, established in 1976, showed a total loss of 811 million tolars in the final account for 1990 and an uncompensated loss of 741.8 million tolars. This loss is largely due to outstanding claims on insurance premiums. In 1990, the Triglav Insurance Community had SIT 1,044.4 million unpaid premium claims, an estimated 84.9 million tolars being unrecovered and accounted for as a correction of the value of claims at the cost of expenditure for 1990. Thus, it increased their costs or losses. As a result of this year, it also cancelled other claims or adjustments to the value of claims, thus amounting to EUR 621,9 million for 1990, in the amount of write-offs and corrections to short-term claims. 59% of the uncovered total loss or 435.7 million tolars was taken over by the newly established insurance company Triglav d.d. The remaining loss was distributed to the newly organised insurance company Maribor, the insurance company Tilia and Adriatic. In 1991, the newly established insurance companies covered an uncovered loss in full at the expense of unrecognizable social capital. This was not entirely in line with the then applicable federal law. If they had covered it in accordance with the law, they would not have written it off in its entirety as a burden of undeclared social capital, but also as a burden of future profits in 1991. This was also found by the audit agency, but it should be pointed out that this action can be justified in the light of the fact that the shareholders that became it in 1991 are not formally responsible for the loss incurred in 1990. In the proposed law on the ownership of insurance undertakings, the opening balance is set out in paragraph 6 of the second paragraph of Article 6. What opening balance? The one submitted by the insurance company Triglav. No state institution has so far checked whether claims from insurance premiums and other investments have been deducted. Therefore, before determining the credibility of the subscribed share capital or its size, it would be necessary to verify that the claims were not also written off to future shareholders, whether they also did not contribute to the loss and consequently to the reduction of the book value of the undeclared social capital and, on that basis, to the formation of the current share capital. The audit agency found in all insurance companies that the revalorisation was illegal or contrary to the law on accounting and contrary to Slovenian accounting standards. The insurance companies incorrectly identified the amount of the revalue and the rebalancing reserves, and they also misaligned the final effects on the share capital and un-nominated social capital. The law on the ownership of insurance undertakings proposed by the Government is based on the fact that the financial statements submitted by insurance undertakings to the paying agency are correct or legal. However, the incorrect increase in equity by rebalancing effects over all ten years does not allow for the proper establishment of the ratios between the two capitals. The second paragraph of Article 3 of the Law stipulates that, I quote, "...after the starting day, there could have been a change in the relationship between the two types of capital only due to the payment of profits." It is simply overlooked that this has also occurred due to misaccounted revalorisation. This is not only a consequence of the determination of capital ratios but also of the calculation of the capital return rate. Inadequacies in the implementation of capital rebalancing have even greater impact, according to our assessment, than irregularities in the distribution of profits. Inadequate rebalancing also has an impact on the level of profit that has been the subject of division in these years. The insurance companies were sharing a fictitious profit. This is very apparent in the case of the Adriatic Insurance Company, when the audit agency found that it had a loss and that the Adriatic Insurance Company had a profit. You can also check this on the table on page 63. The correct relationship between the two types of capital cannot be established on the basis of incorrect data on the rebalancing of capital and fictitious losses. We also miss every mention of the still unresolved tax matters of insurance companies, particularly the largest. There are legal judgments of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia and we do not know what happened to them. I therefore ask today publicly the Minister of Finance to report to this National Assembly on the implementation or non-implementation of these and other open issues of the relationship of these institutions to the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In such a way, it is not possible to build confidence that the stated objectives of the government will indeed be achieved by this law. Therefore, we have proposed that the stated objectives of the law be achieved by a different approach, using a methodology or calculation that will be clear and feasible for all, without difficult or even in a normal time of impossible audits 10 years ago. We have proposed a simpler and more credible solution. The essence of the concept offered by the Coalition Slovenia to achieve the same objectives as declared by the Government proposal is as follows: Every year, from 1 January 1991 forward and until 31 December 2000, the correct height shall be determined. This is said to be the amount of equity and the social capital in a given year is determined as the difference between the correct amount of equity and the book value of the total capital. In doing so, the real value of equity shall be maintained by revalorisation prescribed by the law on the revalorisation of State bonds for the recovery of NLB and the New Bank of Maribor. Share capital shall be subject to an annual shareholding of a profit of equal interest income recognised by business banks for deposits of more than 1 year or at least 8 % per year. The profit belonging to the social capital in a given year shall be determined as the difference between the total profit shown in each year and the profit belonging to the equity at the previous point. On 1 January 2001, the valuation of the insurance undertaking shall establish the fair market value of the total capital. The total difference between the fair value of the total capital and the book value of the equity established under 31.12.2000 belongs to the social capital. In this way the social capital under 1.1.2001 belongs to the whole goodwill or good name created by Slovenian insurance companies for more than a hundred years. The social capital shall be transferred in a certain relationship to the management of the capital company and to the Slovenian compensation company under the condition of 1.1.2001, and finally, the availability of State capital to the CAD and the SOD, or their privatisation, shall be determined by special law. The proposal of the coalition of Slovenia follows all the mandatory directions of the Constitutional Court decision. The Slovenian Coalition's proposal allows for a credible level and relationship between the share capital of insurance undertakings before the recapitalisation in 2001 and 2002 and a credible shareholding of the profits generated by the entire capital. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to conclude this presentation with a clear statement of my firm conviction that Slovenia is not condemned to view honesty as an abstract romantic category, which will only be subject to philosophical debates and poetic inspiration. We are not condemned to subject ourselves to the narrow private interests of a handful of privileged people who have abused their current position and today are skillfully representing their interests in the mask of ordered expertise. All these open issues can be addressed on a professional basis, based on a profession aimed at the service of the common good. Slovenia is not condemned to prolong the rule of law, which will be a reality, and not only in words, based on justice, equality of all before the law and the creation of equal opportunities for all citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u30	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. These were the views of the New Slovenia Group. I now give the floor to my colleague Vnučec, who will present the views of the Group of Members of the Youth Party. Then let me say the order of the representatives of the parliamentary groups to the end: colleague Peče, colleague Kebrič, colleague Podobnik and colleague Grošelj. Did I let anyone go? A colleague of mags. A visor. This will then be the presentations of all the groups of Members. Please, you're the last one in the morning. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u31	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, Mr Minister, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. In the client of young Slovenia, we wish to see as soon as possible a breakdown of the property transformation of insurance companies. We support the proposal of the Property Change Act, not only because of time constraints, but mainly because this proposal is the closest solution to our assessment and is approaching the objectives pursued by the law. In 1990, the then insurance communities, which, by their design and organisation of mutual insurance companies, were transformed into shareholders after the so-called transmission transformation system. The essence of this procedure is to establish a new shareholder company and transfer rights, obligations and assets to it and to the members of the former community to be allocated shares in proportion to their contribution. Such a transformation and ownership were invented by the authors of the then Yugoslav Insurance Act. Thus, our current insurance company should be owned, but in ten years the ownership was not due to different interests, among which the actual interest of the former insurers in the insurance community was not to be traced. When considering the bill, we were convinced that identifying ownership shares in the largest Slovenian insurance company is a very difficult task, which many imagine in their own way. The selection of a professional institution, such as the Slovenian Institute for Audit, which will determine the share of unnominated capital, is considered a solid solution in the Party of Young Slovenia. It is also a fact that the evaluation method is more, but we believe that it is necessary, in view of the expert opinions presented, to take the middle way through a political decision. That is why today the National Assembly is particularly ahead of an important and challenging task, which is also subject to possible review in the Constitutional Court. In our view, the only right way is to vote for a law that contains the principle of equal treatment of both social and private capital. Nor should we forget that the adoption of this law could reduce public debt, which means a lower burden for taxpayers, which is, of course, our main objective. If we do not adopt a law in the short term, the value of unspecified or social capital will decrease, so that they will not get much legal or natural person or state. This means that if the law is not adopted, unnominated or social capital, it will not be able to participate in a proportionate increase in its share in the event of recapitalisation, which would further exacerbate the situation between the nominated and undeclared capital and cause even greater damage to social capital. In our view, it is therefore last time to close the process of privatising insurance companies by adopting this law and to forget the old offenses, because the law offers us a just solution and allows insurance companies to establish an environment in which they can operate successfully in the future. The current situation is not for the benefit of anyone, but it is in the ridicule of the centuries-old tradition of Slovenian insurance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Comrade Peca, will you be long in your performance, may I give you my word before your rest? Please, you have the floor. Mr Peče will present the views of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group and then there will be really no time for the next one to receive the floor at 2.30 p.m. below. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u33	Your Honor! I'll make sure we can all leave the session in time for the morning. If we have stated in the Slovenian national party that in the previous point, i.e. the Law on Public Sector Salaries, we have not seen a single positive point, I can say with certainty that, unlike the previous point, there is only one bright point in the law on the property transformation of insurance companies, but the emphasis is only a bright point. This time, there is at least a law in similar areas to amend similar laws made by Finance Minister Tone Rop. If we remember, the Ministry of Finance of the Republic of Slovenia and thus the entire Government of the Republic of Slovenia selling or selling, however you wish, remained its property past the law, although the National Assembly, otherwise in its mandate before us, specifically ordered that individual changes be made on the basis of laws. But the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not care. I want to point out that there is only one point. That's what we're meeting up with today. However, it should be pointed out that at least according to our judgment, the content of this law is more than a farce. It is suitable for the current management of the finance ministry and the ability and team of this ministry. About the structure, the height, the calculation of the unspecified capital, Mr Bajuk spoke to me, according to our assessment very carefully and we are approaching it in this part. If I look at the law itself and do not repeat things that were exposed to another political organisation, we see that the farce or argument, why we hope to claim that this law is a farce, appears in a review of the summary of the legal provisions found in the Rapporteur in point 2.1. and demonstrates the purpose of this law. We believe that the optimists are all those Members who believe in the well-intention of this law. In our belief, it is solely a matter of pursuing one goal. This is, for the management of the insurance system by the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, as shown in point 2.6. or in particular, in Article 21 of that Act, where the beneficiary of the assets for undeclared capital in the application of the Slovenian Compensation Society to the custodian is established or determined. If we look a little bit over the past year, what the SOD means or what the SOD represents, what the institution is, despite the assurances made by the same minister, who is under the law that the SOD - the Slovenian Compensation Society - is a non-governmental company, so that it cannot be affected, we will all recall that in the event of the sale of Union shares where the SOD meeting was decided after that tactic, which should also be set up, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, the Secretary of State, the Union Supervisory Committee immediately replaced the Director of the SOD. So we see that, in this case, in the case of the bill proposed to us by the Financial Ministry, it is nothing more than how to control, how to dispose of the banking system, even at the level of unspecified capital. We find this absolutely ridiculous, unworthy support and misleading by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to try a media positive approach, I don't know why they get it here when everyone who reads the law sees that this makes you an existing government suit, especially the Liberal Democracy, fortifying their position where politics should not have its own traps, that is also in the insurance system. Excuse me, I'll just take a minute. The very appropriateness of the law suggests that there are 52 amendments to the 31 articles of the law, i.e. more amendments, additions, amendments to the law itself. According to the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, the law is not suitable for consideration, nor is it the process of examination, which we adopt quickly. We will not give him any support in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u34	Thank you very much. My colleague Peca was the last representative of the parliamentary group to present its views this morning. In the afternoon, I will first give my word to my colleague Kebrich, after which they will be given the word of their colleague Podobnik, Grošelj and Mag. Visak, then Members and Members for the general debate. I'm adjourning the session until the beginning of the afternoon's work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u35	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. We'll continue with the 18th extraordinary session. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. I'll be there soon. Please press the "quorum" button. The National Assembly is not concluded. Can you try again? Is everything all right now? I'm gonna rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. The National Assembly is adjourned. 54 Members and Members are in the Chamber, so he may decide. I will proceed with the debate first. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Mr Kebrič will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. He will be given the word of his colleague Podobnik. First of all, Comrade Kebrich, DeSUS Group of Members. I ask everyone else for peace and respect for the views of our colleague. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Secretary, co-worker! Colleagues and colleagues! In our parliamentary group, we are aware of the complexity of this law, and in particular that it is necessary and not only beneficial for us to adopt this law as soon as possible. Our views on how we will vote on this law and on individual amendments are based on the following conclusions, which I will present at individual points. The harmonisation and preparation of the bill took a long time. Those of us who have been Members of the previous term have known the matter for a long time. All those who now participated in his preparations agreed that this yoke should be removed from the agenda, for the current situation has been unjustifiable for years. Secondly, a number of things have been published in the media, but we have not inherited such or other media reports, but we have obtained additional real information from reliable sources, so sometimes it is still clear from these discussions that the state wants to support the insurance company - for example, in Triglav's round-up. This is not true, since the State transfers its legitimate entitlements for which it would be eligible as collateral to its property even to a compensation company. The second paragraph of Article 24 of the proposal of this Act states: "On the basis of premiums paid by persons who have been persons of public law, state and state bodies, agencies, public institutions, public funds, public undertakings or who have carried out activities of special social interest and who are not persons referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article, a new share of the compensation company shall be acquired." This has been very important for our Group of Members. Therefore, such justifications do not have a basis and are therefore not at least justified. Thirdly, the complexity of this bill's proposal stems from the fact that it is a proposal for an explicit conflict of interest. This is very important for this law and for the assessment of this proposal. Individuals, in particular members of the administration, are the owners of an important part of the nominated shares that they acquire in an ever-increasing percentage. Thus, in 1991, which we consider to be the basis, the so-called domestic owners accounted for only four mills, in 1996 a weak ten percent, in 1999 a total of seventeen percent, and now a total of twenty percent. The amount paid was then less than four per cent of the capital of the insurance undertaking, and today the internal shareholders own 1,511 shares, which is 28 per cent of all shares. How clear this conflict of interest is, it is easier to understand if you listen to the numbers if we know that in 1991 the stock cost 50,000.00 tolars and today its market value is zero more and no less around 3,300,000.00 SIT, which means index 6,600. This could be an obvious case of unwarranted wealth. Individuals from management structures now own 50 and more shares, the largest individual owner has no less than ninety. Fourthly, the dilemmas on this so-called starting day to determine the relationship between the already nominated capital and the unnominated capital have been the subject of many discussions. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, in a decision repealing the law on the property transformation of insurance companies, cited it, Official Gazette No. 13 of 2000, as well as experts who participated in the drafting of the current law, decided that the balance sheet of the insurance undertaking should be based on the day it was transformed into a share company, which is 1 January 1991. This, of course, is disputed by some and among them is the administration of the insurance company Triglav, although they well know that the balance sheet of that day was also the basis for disengagement of the insurance community of Triglav into four independent shareholders. So, the division into the insurance company Maribor, Adriatic and Tilio, which was also a kind of property, so we can summarize it, was then such a balance right, and now all of a sudden this credibility is trying to deny it. Fifth. Those insurance undertakings which are not yet owned should also be owned as soon as possible due to their economic plans. Ineligibleness can benefit only those who would like to acquire as much of the cake as possible in this long-term confusion. If we really want good insurance companies, then it is high time that the completion of ownership creates healthy relations between owners and management, if not, the same management will become the main owner of the insurance company, which has been created for a hundred years and has been created by all the insurers and everyone who pays the premiums. In doing so, we must not forget that the same insurance company was so much like its time a monopoly in Slovenia and it was created by all generations of citizens and all our companies. Six. Several amendments have already been tabled on the proposal of the law, which are largely justified and improve the future law. And for the seventh time, the amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy Assembly in our opinion and belief improve the text of the law. In particular, amendments to Articles 11 and 18 are of particular importance to us, which prevent the damage or damage to the undeclared share of insurance companies, which would otherwise be necessary through recapitalisation. This question has so far been addressed incompletely. We are aware that new experts, including those involved in scientific and educational institutions in other countries, have participated in the drafting of this proposal. For this reason, we do not see any reason for the proposals that we need to involve foreign institutions in the ownership process, which in fact only has a sole purpose in bringing it back and putting it back together. We have enough domestic experts, and it is finally right for us to recognize and appreciate them ourselves. The debates and public debates so far also point to the fact that we have the final text of a law that will bring this overheated issue to the agenda. Therefore, our parliamentary group supports and will vote in favour of the proposed law along with the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Comrade Kebrich. Mr Podobnik will present the position of the SLS Group, followed by his colleague Grošelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Mr. Secretary! We are in the second round, in a second legislative attempt to allow property transformation of insurance companies by adopting the law. The National Assembly first began its consideration of this law, with this content in January 1994, the second reading was in November 1995 and the third reading in February 2000. On 19 April 2000, the Constitutional Court fully repealed the law. Spring 2002 brings a new attempt. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that this time an attempt to adopt the law will lead to its entry into force and that the property insecurity in the insurance companies will end. We would also like to point out here that we still have opinions in the parliamentary group that a number of financial - technical changes in the law that was repealed by the Constitutional Court in 2000 - have been very good. These are solutions that were not related, according to the Constitutional Court, to unconstitutional solutions. They're mainly of a professional nature. Some solutions to the current government proposal are once again proposed and some key adaptations are made, as is the only right, to the already mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court. Therefore, the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group on the law is also positive. We estimate that the content of the proposed law is an acceptable compromise, especially in the most sensitive solutions to the fair relationship between shareholders - we could say to a well-known or, as is ill-proportioned, nominated - and social or, as is said, unnominated capital. The word "just" was pronounced, not for the first time in this place; what is fair - the eternal dilemma of all the legislators of this world. And every Parliament, every legislator, would seek to adopt solutions that are just; this is the hardest task of every Parliament. Already there are some colleagues in front of me, in particular I would like to point out a colleague of Dr. Bayuk who has proved that a great deal of expertise can be incorporated into the performance of the House, and so knowledge is possible only with the good cooperation of the parliamentary groups and Members with competent interlocutors and experts and advisers, and such performances in the Group are supported and are a good guide for the work of the National Assembly in the future. Thus, some colleagues before me prove that this legal matter opens up some very complex financial - technical, especially accounting or, in particular, in detail, the issue of audit procedures and their standards. It also raises legal and constitutional questions. In financial - technical procedures and issues, as well as accounting standards, we would like to highlight the fact that the most prominent institutions and individuals that Slovenia as a state of transition have been involved in the preparation of this law as consultants. We want to believe that they have done their work in a fair, independent and professional manner. In doing so, there remain open dilemmas in our parliamentary group, which we have always highlighted in many coalition or professional coalition coordinations, namely, who will determine the share of unnominated or social capital - domestic or international audit society. I will talk a little more about this dilemma at the end of my performance. On legal or possible constitutional issues, however, we would like to point out that in the parliamentary group we are opposed to the possible speculation of the adoption of potentially controversial constitutional solutions, as this would put in place the expectation that a constitutional issue will be decided in any way by the Constitutional Court. This, in the view of our Group of Members, is incorrect and, of course, which is not irrelevant, could also be an additional purchase of time. Nevertheless, in the last brief presentation, in which years, this law has already been dealt with, but an important element, in the past ten years. When it comes to the substantive solutions to this law, however, it would be insolent if we did not point out in this place as Members the question that we have to: the question of responsibility, particularly moral, but also criminal. Today, Mr. Secretary has had a brave performance. In times past, one of the vice-presidents of a previous government would similarly have used the same words as he did. Allow me to quote them: "It is not possible and must not be permissible for some individuals or groups of individuals to take on a legal vacuum in the last decade without a real basis, without sufficient investment practically taking on an important part of our financial system. This is unacceptable both in terms of legal ethics, in terms of the most important economic fairness and also in terms of promoting the long-term development of the financial economic system as a whole. While it is true that those who supported their capital investments in insurance companies and enabled their development in the early 1990s to receive proportionate equity shares and comparable expected returns. However, it is certainly not permissible for such investments to mean to anyone the right or opportunity to appropriate or devalue social capital, but to be heard through legal or capital, equity changes." End of quote from Minister Mag. Robbery. We support the content of his performance in the parliamentary group. It is recalled, however, that the terms mentioned were such as the capping or grading of social capital. Acquisition or grading of social capital is now an illegal and also a criminal offence. If such conduct has been initiated in this place, the question must be raised for the House’s spokeswoman: whether any proceedings have been initiated in this regard. If Members of this House had not raised these questions, they would not have carried out their duties as Members. The question of righteousness was mentioned earlier. In principle, while we support the solutions proposed by this law, the genetic makeup of its origin and the problems associated with it is such that some other issues need to be raised. Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, year 1996, number 96/04724. For the subject of the description Insurednica Triglav, d.d., headquarters Miklosičeva 19, Ljubljana, main capital 180 million tolars, 1996. Under what laws and with what accounting acrobatics did the insurance company value its value once so low and secondly so high, without substantial interim additional cash investment? By what rules are they and by whom have the chosen to participate in the acquisition of equity in paper form or in fictitious shares? Whether the value is from 180 million tolars per cca. Has she increased 100 billion tolars with a single or multiple paper fictitious revalue of the insurance company's assets? In doing so, of course, we stress that we know the recapitalisations that have taken place in recent times. What happened to the insurance company from then on until today, there are today numbers about cca in the media. A 500-fold increase in her value? Are there certificates of cash deposits that have increased the value of the insurance company? All other forms of increase mean very mild financial - accounting acrobatics, which are at least morally controversial. Very morally challenged! Unless they also violate the laws on equality and equal opportunities of citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to conclude my performance with a question or dilemma that touches on Article 9. It is a question of who will determine the share of undeclared capital: whether an international audit firm designated by the government or a domestic Slovenian audit company. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that only answers to the argument that the time dimension is insufficiently convincing for the Slovenian audit company to do so. The draft law provides for the determination of the share of undeclared capital and the production of a special report by the Slovenian Institute for Audit. In view of the need to ensure exceptional expertise in the determination of undeclared capital and any other legal requirements envisaged, it is more appropriate to provide for a recognised international audit company which already has a certain type of experience. A foreign audit company will be able to carry out an audit on the basis of experience gained and expertise and, at the same time, to determine the proportion of undeclared capital on insurance in the short term that the Slovenian audit institute will need to do so. Furthermore, the importance of ensuring the objectivity and independence of carrying out the audit cannot be overlooked, which can be achieved mainly by the participation of a foreign recognised audit company. Finally, it is also necessary to imitate one of the ways in which insurance companies are owned in recent months. This is the ownership of banks in Slovenia for exactly the same reasons, but with the help of foreign international recognised financial and audit companies. We would like to receive a rejoinder by government representatives. If we were to be convinced that we were wrong, we would not have tabled the amendment, otherwise we would have submitted it in accordance with the procedure. As an additional argument to our insistence, I would like to mention the position of a highly respected financial expert in Slovenia. That's what he says. "The second important element is who should carry out such appreciation. It is very clear that this can only be done internationally recognised, in this case certainly a foreign evaluation institution which has such references in this area, which will prove in the tender process to select the best valuer. In this case, there must be at least two or three, likely three offers that will allow comparison between the relevant references of these evaluators, which will carry out the valuation according to international valuation standards, not according to any domestic, organised or awarded. On the basis of this element, an independent and objective assessment of the value of an insurance undertaking will, of course, give rise to an appreciation of the share between private and social capital." This position was adopted in 2000 by the then Minister of Finance of Mags here. Gaspari. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Comrade Podobnik. Mr Grošelj presented the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats and the position of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party behind him, colleague Vizjak, who will also be the law before the representative of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u40	President, thank you so much for your word. Mr Minister, Secretary of State, Government representatives, representatives of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, dear colleagues and colleagues are warmly welcomed. Initially, it should be noted that it is difficult to determine the method of establishing the relationship between equity and undeclared capital and, on the other hand, the way in which the so-called social capital is distributed among the equity beneficiaries. It was therefore also necessary to lay down, in accordance with the Constitutional Court’s decision, the fundamental principle of equal treatment of both sources of capital. A new proposal for a law shall take into account the expected rights of persons who, in accordance with Article 123 of the Law on the Fundamentals of the Property and Personal Insurance System of 1990, are entitled to share both in the basic capital of the insurance undertaking. The proposed law itself sets out both objectives by objectiveising the procedures for determining the share and nominated capital of the insurance undertaking in a way that ensures the necessary protection and does not prejudice the existing rights of shareholders and clearly aligns the rights of both equity segments, i.e. equity and unnominated capital. Therefore, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats supports the law, while also aware that it is high time for the property transformation of the insurance company to take place, since the Constitutional Court has completely repealed the law a year ago. There were many discussions on the method of identifying undeclared capital throughout the insurance company's capital, both within the coalition, where expert opinions and other experts were taken into account. The Sub-Committee on the Economy for Property Transformation and Privatisation, held on 10 April 2002, was attended by representatives of insurance companies during the general debate and an in-depth discussion was also held at the meetings of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. Many different opinions and interests dominated the view that the proposed method was acceptable because there is no better or ideal at this time. The identified undeclared capital of the insurance undertaking should receive known owners, both legal and natural persons, as soon as possible. For too long, the retention of the State in the undeclared capital of the insurance undertaking through the Capital Company and the Compensation Company would be detrimental in our view in the sense that there is still a risk of introducing a daily policy into the activity of insurance. Therefore, the proposed basis for determining the expected benefits in each insurance undertaking should be understood as a basis for resolving the first step - the identification of the ownership beneficiaries for the unspecified capital. We also understand the proposal for a law on the realisation of insurance companies in the sense that the finalisation of insurance undertakings must ensure the normal operation and development of this very important activity, both in terms of safety, quality and new products, and in particular the greater role of insurance undertakings in the financial market in connection with banks and banking institutions and, last but not least, the penetration into third markets, since knowledge and experience would be a major loss if they were to delay and not take advantage of opportunities in third markets. All of this is particularly important when opening up the insurance market and increasing competition and the penetration of foreign insurance companies in that area. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the government or the Ministry of Finance or the Minister should strengthen the professional insurance team within the meaning of the system, supervision and so on. We are convinced that too weak professional creativity has contributed to the ownership of the property transformation of insurance companies and has also hampered the search for appropriate solutions. So demanding, the project has had a lot of problems, which are often referred to as subjective influences, but not only from different interests and perspectives, which would provide the necessary legal protection of both ownership regulations, that is share capital and unnominated capital, but also from personal objections to individual insurance companies or - I will even say so - leading employees in insurance companies. Therefore, honourable colleagues and colleagues, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will vote in favour of the adoption of this Act and we will support all the amendments of the Government or of the Committee, whose aim is to find the value of social capital correctly and transparently and to establish the right relations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Comrade Visjak, you have the floor. You will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Then we will move on to a general debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, distinguished Minister, representatives of the government, distinguished colleague and colleague! The Property Change Act is mainly divided into two content sets. The first component deals with determining the ratio between undeclared and equity in insurance companies. The second content set speaks of the beneficiaries of the ownership of the unspecified capital. In the Social Democratic Party and in the Coalition of Slovenia, we are convinced that it allows the implementation of the law, as proposed by the Government, in particular with regard to the first substantive set of any final solution, and that the implementation of the proposed legal provisions can lead to objectives and the predicted relationship between undeclared and share capital, which is explained and advocated by the finance minister today, but may not. And that's a key clue to the first content set. In our view, the law does not make clear provisions on the protection of undeclared capital against the appetite of well-known shareholders. In particular, it is worth noting the indeterminability of the provisions of Article 18 whereby, in the end, the relationship between undeclared and nominated capital may be optional, depending on the exercise of the rights of the Slovenian Indemnity Society, laid down in particular in the first sentence of paragraph 18. Despite considerable debates on the Finance Committee and even despite the government's announced amendments, this right continues to appear as a right. And if the first sentence of Article 18 states that the Slovenian Society has only the right, this means that it can exercise this right, but it may not apply it, and from this title the outcome of the final relationship between the unspecified and the share capital may be uncertain, depending on the will of the then, not the present, then the political and otherwise influential will. In the Coalition of Slovenia, we therefore propose amendments that provide for a clearer and fairer relationship between undeclared and equity capital. The proposed amendments aim to establish the fairest possible amount of equity and unnominated capital on the starting day or 1.1.1991 and in all subsequent years. The further objective of the amendments is to distribute net profit correctly or proportionately to the shares of both types of capital, and this is in fact also to achieve the objectives which at least the government proposal has taken on at the principal level. The fundamental problem of the implementation of the objectives of the law is that insurance companies do not have reliable accounting data that would allow for the direct execution of corrections in the amount of undeclared capital and its associated profits. This is clearly evident from the publicly available records of the partial inspections of insurance companies prepared for this purpose by the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the revision of the property transformation for the period 1990-1996. Since these facts are also known to the Government or the drafters of this Act, the law to harmonise the relationship between equity and undeclared capital uses solutions that are not based on the direct correction of accounting data and on the professionally expected procedures. Therefore, the implementation of these tasks shall not be entrusted to the Audit Agency; in order for the proposed solutions to be given greater credibility, the Slovenian Audit Institute shall be authorised to carry out the tasks necessary for the implementation of the law, although the audit law does not authorize them to carry out such tasks. The Institute shall be given a one-time mandate by this Act to act as an expert of the Government in the process of the ownership of insurance undertakings and, on the basis of the provisions of the law itself, to provide a basis for the decision of the Government. In the fact that it is not possible to verify and correct the financial statements of insurance undertakings for an 11-year period in a short period of time, and in the fact that management entitlements must be secured as soon as possible to un-nominated social capital, the amendments proposed by the two objectives are as close as possible and also allow the basic objective of the law to be achieved. The first objective of the proposed amendments is to determine the correct amount of equity in individual years from 1.1.1991 to 31.12.2000 by means of accounting data and economically sound revalorisation of equity and the way in which profits are applied to China’s share capital. The undeclared social capital shall then be provisionally established in individual years until 31.12.2000 as the difference between the total capital shown in the financial statements and the share capital established under this law or its corresponding share capital participation in profit as the difference between the total net profit and profit held by the equity under this law. As also by this method the undeclared social capital shown under the state of 31.12.2000 remains incorrect bookkeeping value, the valuation of insurance undertakings shall be carried out in accordance with 1.1.2001 and on this basis shall determine the fair value of the undeclared social capital. The value of the "good will" or good name expected in the valuation of the largest and monopolistic insurance company, that is, the Insurance Company Triglav, belongs under the provisions of the amendments to the fully unnominated social capital, the amount of the share capital found after the state of 31.12.2000 remains unchanged, as the good name is the result of more than a century old tradition of insurance activities on Slovenian soil and not only the ten-year policy of the current management of the Insurance Company Triglav. For recapitalisations already committed by existing shareholders in 2001 and 2002, the ratio between share capital and government capital in the Slovenian Compensation Company and the CAD shall be determined by the entry of new shares arising from the fair valuation of undeclared social capital and at the fair price of the share on the basis of the valuation under condition 1.1.2001. Undeclared social capital shall be transferred to the management of the Slovenian Indemnity Company and the Capital Society further by way of a provisional book adjusted value at 31.12.2000 and definitively after the fair value has been applied The rights of access to capital allocated to the management of the Slovenian Indemnity Company and the Capital Society shall be laid down in a special law which also lays down the eligibility of the insurance undertakings of the Triglav Insurance Society to own or privatise this until then the social capital of the insurance undertakings. Such solutions allow, in our view, the quickest implementation of the law and the implementation of the management entitlements of the SOD and the KAD and fully respect the Constitutional Court's decision. In the amendments, we further propose and stipulate that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by special law within 90 days of the decision of the fair value of the unspecified capital, must determine the ownership or privatisation of that capital, taking equally into account the ownership of legal and natural persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u43	Thank you very much. With this performance, we have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I think it's all right. In the debate, which is not limited to 5 minutes, I received only one application, Comrade Jerovska. I'll limit the rest of you to five minutes. The Minister also wants to discuss it and I will give him my word later. First, my colleague Jerovšek. Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on the real estate transformation of insurance companies is certainly one of the most important laws we adopt during this term of office in this reference to the National Assembly. Of course, the law is ten years late. It is certainly late for some well-known reason because there was no political will to deal with the law in such an important area on which much depends. And this state of legal emptiness, as the Minister mentioned in his opening performance, was, of course, exploited by those who were the most powerful, as monopolistic insurance companies in Slovenia, when taking the reins. Why this insurance company is monopolistic and why it has come to such a, in some way special - status in the Slovenian space, I have myself considered from the discussion on the ownership subcommittee within the Economic Committee, where we first discussed this law. There the director of the Maribor Insurance Company said in his performance: "I would also be a monopolistic insurance company if the country were so generous and generously insured the most assets in our insurance company. In that case, we'd be that powerful Insurance Company Triglav." It was quite interesting that he mentioned that this country was too generous or too under-guaranteed to provide too much. Because, apparently, in previous times, under previous ministers, it was part of the policy of how state budget money could be poured into another account. That's more than obvious. This was not only done by the state, but from today's staff force in insurance companies we can see that many of the country's important officials have found themselves in their functional careers in the bras of a monopolistic insurance company. However, when the state’s officials were at the Ministry of Finance, they were, of course, hampering the adoption of a transparent law, or it is now quite clear that they have taken a large part in the interests of the insurance lobby or that part of the insurance lobby. One of the reasons why Minister Rob had to say goodbye to certain such state officials was that they worked in the interests of the insurance undertaking, the monopolistic insurance undertaking, not in the interests of the finance ministry and not in the interests of the State representing taxpayers, the citizens or representatives of those who over the long years, during the 100 years of insurance paid premiums in Slovenia, had contracts concluded and contributed to the basic capital of the insurance undertakings, which was thus refined in the tens, twelve years of delay significantly overstated, so that today the blurred ratio between the so-called share capital and the nominated capital, which we are talking about throughout the debate. Today, it has already been mentioned that the Minister has acted courageously; I agree with this that he spoke clearly about the legal void, the moral and ethical principles that should be respected at least in advance. The question is whether the government majority is capable of following this. We know about the strong pressures, we know about the strong lobbying which, while legitimate, we know about the strength of this insurance lobby, which I consider to be legitimate. The state did not control them, the state did not care for itself over the past ten years and have become rich. They have enriched their interests, led the hunters to a number of Members, to a number of authorities in the country, and have effectively prevented the adoption of a law that should have been adopted ten years ago. We have recently discovered that these hunters have actually fallen to the highest peaks, to the various parts and limbs of the government coalition, so it is also questionable to pass such a law today or at the final stage of the implementation of such a law, which is proposed today. This fear was best understood from Mr Podobnik's performance, the leader of a strong coalition party's parliamentary group, who mentioned the possibility that anti-constitutional articles would be deliberately incorporated into the law, which would further block the implementation of the law, and this fear is certainly present and is real. How important the law is, not only does today's performance of the Minister bear witness to us, but in my view the Minister's performance at that time's first reading on this property subcommittee, when I will quote, I will quote, "Some have said before they saw the law: I don't know the law, but I am against it. Clearly, some are against him, for of course we are deeply encroaching on material relationships. In a material relationship, not just one generation, but more generations. There is no doubt, by a financial expert, a financial expert, an indication of how huge the funds are in the air and how incredible the consequences of this generation and the next generation will have solutions to this law. I am afraid that even if we adopt a good law of correction today, with the amendments proposed by our party, which would significantly improve the law and make it more transparent and fairer, or if we adopt it in government form to be played by this power, this financial lobby, this financial oligarchy that reigns in Slovenia. And that the property will end up in exactly the right pockets. It's a big danger. In many important parts of Slovenian property, this has happened. Taxpayers or those who have been employed have been flattered, today we have a financial oligarchy in Slovenia, which practically rules everyone and before it, before this financial oligarchy, is poor and also a large part of the government coalition; unfortunately many Members are also neglected. However, I think it is important what will be the material relationship in this society of our generation and our generation of children and our grandchildren. This is where we actually decide our children, our grandchildren. That's what the Minister of Robb illustrated to us, and if [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] I agree that his performance was brave today, but for a lot of percentage points he was less transparent and less radical than it was at that first reading. [[...]] I believe and I'm sure the minister went through processing this financial oligarchy that never lets anyone go. This, of course, has already been known to him in today's performance, and this is a great danger to the final realization of any law that we will adopt in this House. In fact, it was also said several times from the Minister's mouth that those 4 promoted equity capital, which in 1991 was owned by the administration or those who were in such important places at that time and, of course, at that time demonstrated their managerial interest, which I consider legitimate, that is legitimate. If the state has not been able to mate or clearly has to say that it has not wanted to mate with such ambitions, then this is legitimate. Then, in that situation in a similar place and in a similar currency, a number of others would probably behave in such a way that a country that does not want to exercise its interests is not trusted. I hope that the situation has changed permanently, that the situation has changed also in the heads, not just as a result of the desperate state of public finances. Not only as a result of the fact that the Minister certainly realizes that if he does not bring some money from this title to the Treasury, that his political destiny, his career, is sealed, will be considered as a financial minister, during which the State has experienced financial bankruptcy. Without that money, Argentina is on the pier, or it is inevitable for Slovenia. Nevertheless, fellow Members, you must be aware of this, regardless of how far or how strong the lobby is, which also goes to a number of parliamentary benches. As a result of this struggle, or these efforts, how to get to specific known titles or to the known hands of known owners as much as possible of this capital, events have occurred in Slovenia, which served as a smoke screen in this regard. Surely the controversy about the government's luxury with regard to the government's aircraft would not have become so rich; it would have remained under control, if not served, as a smoke screen for the adoption of this law. But "falcon", a falcon that was only troubled there, which was somehow not stolen that would come to Slovenia [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u45	This is not a proper discussion. I'm just warning you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u46	I cite the example - which shows the excessive greed and luxury of the government. [[...]] However, in insurance we see only from such a dissensive fact, how annual awards are shared - the administration and the supervisory committee. This year 120 billion and millions. That's a million marks. That the Members would know. And in recent years, each year, this share of the profits they've distributed is increasing. It's free money that someone shares that they can rule and control Slovenia with. And in this way - this is one of the ways that then this equity increased - in this way, when every year some Falcons flew in an unknown direction, this capital has to be transferred to Falcone, that is what our people understand better. Millions of Marks don't understand. But in the Falcons, they understand better. This is where the Falcons were running, and they're running. We are elected representatives of the people, and we must stand in a position to defend in some way the interests of the State and to defend the interests of those investors, those taxpayers, those citizens who have built this capital through the 3 million insurance contracts over the centuries. We will probably not all hear anyone in this Chamber who would hope to raise his voice against what the Minister has also mentioned, that it would be unfair, if I did not know, for the 6,000 times the fertilization of this capital - we have heard in these ten years that this would be unfair. I suppose that such a Member who would say it is fair and it is completely legitimate, it is management, it is all acceptable, it is in accordance with our system, transition and so on - I suppose there is no one who would hope to go for a speaker and confirm it. At the same time there are many who have already promised in some places that this is the best way and that it provides us with the best, better perspective of Slovenian insurance. And, of course, I appeal to my fellow Members to put these relations within some reasonable framework. For the last time, the minister mentioned, for the first time, that the ratio that the government was willing to recognise to this share capital - it is said that about 28 percent - was even a speech at that time - that this was extremely generous. That this gift of the state, which has increased 10 times, has increased the share they have invested or has increased it a thousand times. A thousand times! Because in the opinion of the financial experts in the field of insurance - and this was said there - this share today could be with the recognition of all dividends and everything that has come to that basic share could be 3 to 4%. The government will eventually agree to ten times the share, meaning a 100-fold increase - from the beginning. I ask you a question: is it legitimate, is it legal, is it fair, is it permissible? The insurance lobby is pursuing its legitimate interests. I would like to point out once again that the state has let them play this role and has allowed all this to happen. In the last ten years. She was doing it consciously. Only now does it end when the country is in some way threatened with bankruptcy. It has been established that part of this money must be put under its wing, so far that through the custodian it will somehow come to this capital and at least slightly repair its old sins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek was, as the only one who made a written application, so I did not limit his discussion in time and all the others later. This does not apply to a minister who wants a word now. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u48	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Certainly, these discussions that have been held today require some clarifications, perhaps even comments. I am certainly pleased that, of course, if I have correctly understood the representatives of the parliamentary groups, that a large majority of all the parliamentary groups support the basic objectives, the principles of this law and in this respect I think this is a significant success, I would also say the important determination of the national assembly to bring things to an end and to identify owners in Slovenian insurance companies in order to protect social and undeclared capital. Of course, it is quite clear that the views on how to get to this proportion, how to determine it, are different. In other words, there were professional discussions when we carried out and prepared the law, the different and written position of Dr. Marble, which we also presented, is that there are different methods by which we can identify these shares. What we are convinced is that we have chosen a method that is most transparent, which is simple, which clearly tells us what we want, what we want and where we are going. In this context, of course, we believe that we have chosen correctly. We have also chosen correctly because it is still important for insurance companies how long we will determine the proportion, how we will determine it and, of course, how we will then ensure the normal functioning of these insurance undertakings. I propose that the discussion of the individual claims that have been made in relation to the ways in which the share of social capital has been determined be conducted under the relevant amendments and that we face different, professional views on individual solutions there. I certainly think it is worth supporting those thinking in this direction that the irregularities that have taken place - if the statements from the Property Change Auditorship report have gone in this direction, that such things have also been found to be true, that there have been written-offs of certain claims, that there is a possibility that certain payments have occurred - and I certainly strongly support the wishes of members of the National Assembly to bring these things to a bottom. The question is how, by what method, how to do it. Of course, I took part in the drafting of Amendment K17. a special group, Mr Pucko, Trofenik, Grošelj and Mr Kebrič, which, in my opinion, provides very quality assurance of the possibility of carrying out a specific audit on the basis of which individual insurance operations from 1.1.1990 would be identified and verified. Of course, it is important that the auditor, who will be selected in accordance with the specific provisions of the takeover law, must take into account - this explicitly says - all the reports of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia for the Revision of Property Transformation of Enterprises; that is, everything that has been discussed here and that you have also pointed out. This seems extremely important to me, and I think that a happy solution has been used here, a solution that they know in German practice, in their company law, a solution that has already been used in Slovenian practice in three cases, lawsuits in this regard run through minority shareholders, but we will later, when we speak in concrete terms, be able to discuss this qualitatively enough in my opinion. As for what Mr Jerovšek said about the financial bankruptcy and the connection of bankruptcy with this law or the country's financial needs, I must make it very clear. There is absolutely no link between any lack of public funds and this law. While I could explain what the macroeconomic situation is now and what the public financial picture is, I have also said publicly that certain savings will undoubtedly need to be made in this year's budget and in the coming years, but our public financial picture is significantly better than for example. in Germany and in some other countries of the European Union, where there are significantly higher deficits, there are significantly greater public financial problems. I wouldn't talk about Argentina because there's really no comparison - because this is where Argentina was highlighted - fortunately we're still a long way from Argentina, if I may say so. However, this is also the subject of discussion, probably at the other end. With regard to what Dr. Bajuk has called me and concerns Durs and some lawsuits or procedures, I would ask him if he would give me written material to see exactly what actions are being filed and, of course, we would be ordering and prompting - whether we will respond in a prompt manner or whether we will respond in a package concerning all the proceedings that are taking place in connection with the insurance company. But if you have any specifics, if you want to, you can also mention them in particular. I'd like to comment on just two more. The first, of course, was Mr Janez Sponik's question in this regard: whether a home or a foreign audit house. I am absolutely sure that the only home audit house is appropriate, that we have qualified audit houses, that in this case we have foreseen a supreme audit house. Of course, there is no complete link, no link between the valuation of banks and the determination of the value of unspecified or social capital in accordance with this law. In accordance with this law, we find shares on the basis of the opening balance or balance sheet on 1.1.1991; hence, the balance sheet, which is new to the government, in this case, is not noted. So we don't need appreciation, we don't need work grading and between two possible evaluation methods and a static balance sheet method we decided because it's faster because it's more transparent. In the case of the bank, however, we have identified the fair market value of the banks and it was necessary, the valuation, the need for a dew of diligence; in short, a careful verification of the value of the entire bank and therefore it was necessary for both domestic and foreign experts from all areas of legal, human, financial and valuation - in short, to be completely different. There we sold the bank to a key investor in 34% of the share, and we had to make a valuation for ourselves and, of course, the buyers for themselves did the valuation, and we will present this to you if this closed meeting of the parent committee occurs, very precisely how much our valuations show how much they value. In short, the extent of the problem is completely different, nature is completely different. It's a balance sheet. Nothing else. For the balance sheet on which legal persons and natural persons, in particular legal persons, recapitalised insurance undertakings in 1991. And that's perfectly clear and transparent. This is shown in the report of the Property Change Audit Agency; we have shown this table. It may not have been the right signatory, then we rushed in by getting because it was the wish of the parent committee and we wanted to get that table very quickly showing how the shares of nominated and unnominated capital change depending on the profit movement of dividends and, of course, the time series resulting from the bill. I would also like to point out very clearly if we chose a foreign valuer, otherwise I do not know why the valuer, if only the balance sheet needs to be looked at, would actually have a problem with him for the first time, so that he probably would not know exactly what social capital is and should explain what social capital is. Then, of course, the key problem is the time to get a foreign valuer - without need, by my assessment - to go into an international tender, we should collect offers, then we should choose such a valuer. It could have been paid by insurance companies themselves, but it would have been a long time in the course of the month and, as we know, some insurance companies are warning us about the need for recapitalisation. And we have seen from practice, also on the committee; Mr Vizjak has specifically pointed out today that any recapitalisation that takes place without the appropriate corrections that are defined in Article 18 of this Law - and I am now moving on to what Mr Vizjak has said - of course means grading unspecified capital and that we must actually recapitalise with the Slovenian Indemnity Society in this regard. Here we come to the claim of Mr Visionak, who said that it was only justice. I am sure that you are now convinced that the relevant amendments are being tabled and that the diction is now such that the debtor is obliged to pay the monetary contribution to the insurance undertaking and to take over the new shares at the same price and so on, that I will not quote the whole paragraph in this Article 18. Therefore, it is clear from the new amendment, if adopted, the second paragraph of Article 18 and the tenth paragraph, that the Slovenian compensation company is bound by the appropriate amount to be paid, recapitalised and thus provided for that equity or relative share that we are always talking about. And the target share is not 30%, but we said very clearly, it's 15%, it's 85%, 15%. By the way, only for the end, as you know, was the initial proposal of one of the insurance companies, which prepared even its proposal for the law, exactly the opposite - 15% of unnominated social capital and 85% of private capital. And I myself have said very clearly and very firmly, and I will also continue to think that this is totally unacceptable, that this is unacceptable, and here I believe that we are all on the same shore and that we are all working towards the same goal, that is to make a proper property transformation of all Slovenian insurance companies, where there is unspecified capital or social capital. That's what I had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, please. Does anyone else want to say after him that we will have an approximate review of the debate? Dr. Bajuk and Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u50	I would only have a brief replica to the Minister, who in some way assured me in the replica that there is no shortage of public funds. That's exactly what he said, and I wrote it down. Of course, it has been determined that his views are clear, but if so, Mr. Minister, do you not send the wrong messages if you rightly said that certain savings will be required? Are you not sending the wrong messages, or are you somehow not telling the leeches on the country's scars that they can still be thoroughly suctioned so that they don't have to be disconnected? I think you're sending the wrong messages. If this is not a lack of public funds, then of course I ask why it was necessary, although I do not object to it, to sell the family gold of the country under relatively poor conditions if this is not a lack of public funds. Then we could wait for this family’s gold to regain that real value. I think that in this country there is already a need to be the side of the bell on public finances, on the state of public finances, and I would be happy if everyone here is fully transparent in this respect; it is the responsible things that force us into transparency. In addition, I would like to ask you when you are committed to assessing or verifying what is the result of the report of the Agency of the Republic of Slovenia on the revision of property transformation. I would also like to ask you whether the government has checked whether, on the basis of the rulings in force in court - here I have before me a specific ruling from the Supreme Court, which I think was legal - whether the insurance companies paid the service tax, which was in these actions, namely, a fixed or a court decided that they were liable to pay. There are many judgments of this kind. And I want to know what the government has checked in this direction whether the insurance companies have complied with at least judicial decisions or whether some of the lowest points in officials' drawers have been suppressed and simply forgotten. I would also like to know whether the government has taken or has made any inquiries as to when DeSUS representatives - not those sitting here - have so clearly defined that they have concluded a gentlemen's, not gentlemen's, agreement with the Triglav insurance company to finance their pre-election activities, so that Members here - at least some of them, as has been provided - will support their views or solutions. In this regard, I am interested in the official government position on what you have taken in this direction. I think that this is something so unprecedented, which some DeSUS officials have so freely stated and illustrated that it certainly shows the strong dimension of political corruption in this country. And the Ministry of Finance must act. I want to know what you did. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u51	Thank you very much. I now give my word to my colleague, Dr. Bayuk, behind him, my colleague Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Just two comments on the Minister's presentation. Of course, we will be very pleased to submit to him a written request regarding the situation of the relations of all these institutions, insurance companies in Slovenia, and in particular the largest, to the tax administration. But I'll tell you in advance, I'm not just interested in some things, I'm totally interested in everything. But I have to tell you that I'm surprised that this is any question for you at all, because I can't understand if we're looking at all of these, all of these audit agencies reports that I've discussed extensively this morning, we see how much Insurance Triglav paid the tax and it's actually - well, that I'm going to be very correct, I'm going to say: funny. It is ridiculously small, and it is against any expectation or knowledge that anyone can have if they want to come to that knowledge, how much the whole insurance sector means to one country's tax assets. Organized, of course, countries, not those where these things seem to develop according to domestic rules, but not by law. So, I'm surprised that this is a question for you at all, and that you haven't solved it yet, because obviously no matter what, although I admit to you that we are far from Argentina, don't be afraid, I won't discuss Argentina, we're far from such a situation, and I have to tell you that we're very serious on the same path. We are very serious on the same track because we do not want to accept this or even we do not want to realize that this country actually lives beyond the limits of its own resources and it is hiding, hiding and creating a feeling for people that everything is possible. In fact, not everything is possible because there are certain limits and the limits are all the resources that the Slovenian state can obtain through the tax administration. But the fact is that we also know that we cannot increase this, because our economy is already overtaxed, in a completely irrational way, everyone understands this; and I am surprised that you haven't been interested at all in what's going on here. Because there was a lot of talk about this two years ago: about the tax debts of large businesses and individuals who actually have a somewhat flat-rate relationship with marriage. Well, we'd be happy to give it to you as soon as possible. The other thing I'm interested in commenting on is your support for the amendment tabled by Comrade Pucka and other colleagues. It is interesting that in this area we are citing, which is suddenly brought into play by a law that has not actually been written for relations - it was written only for private economy relations, while ignoring something that is very clearly written in our legislation; that is, we have valid laws today that require and set up institutions that have the duty to protect the integrity of social capital. These agencies, we've actually forgotten about these institutions. Not only have we forgotten, let us not include them at all in order to play their final role, the legal role in this law. So that's what I find strange in itself. On the other hand, of course, I am interested, it is nice that the government is taking sides and Mr Minister, and some Members support just one proposal that is supposed to try to figure out what was going on there. I'd like to read you some more information just for a better understanding. In 1990, Triglav 1044 million claims were made by the Insurance Community. Of these, 484.9 million or 46.4% were written off. I wrote it off. Then next year 26.7%. Then 27%, 42%, 47%, 52.1%. Dear colleagues and colleagues! What's going on in this institution is that we're so flat-rate about the resources that everyone we're insured pays. I hope they come to that. But I'm afraid, I'm not afraid, I'm sure this proposal is too late and too wrong. Too late, why? Because this should be part of the finding and the basis of this law, not some correction that will open the door for us to defend ourselves in a court in Slovenia, when we well know how many years it takes to wait for a decision to come. However, if a decision is reached, as we already have the rulings and decisions of the Supreme Court, no one respects them and, above all, not his own government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer, you have a word and five minutes at your disposal. It is very embarrassing for me to interrupt colleagues who have not completed their thoughts, but I am obliged to do so in order for everyone to have the same opportunities. Comrade Petty Officer, behind you, Comrade Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u54	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me also say a few words from my side. In fact, the adoption of this law concerns two or more issues that have arisen or are the subject of this law. Thus, the distribution of this capital, which is clearly a severe unknown, what formula, how and otherwise, has opened up the question of the operation of this insurance undertaking, which should certainly be subject to an in-depth audit procedure and given the data we have received, not only the subject matter of the audit, but perhaps another subject matter, such as the criminal procedure. On the one hand, we see that some will be extremely well-stocked, not even their assets, the assets that they have borrowed elsewhere, and they have loaded it and changed it - but these distribution shares. But it's also something else: what happened to some natural persons in this insurance company. Look, I have an example that someone concluded as a natural person insurance, insurance policy, where the monthly premium was 3,000 dollars, concluded it for 12 years, from 1987 to 1999, and at the end of this period this insurance company sent him a nice letter. This letter reads as follows: "We inform you that this and this day you have the insurance of postage on the shelf number of this and this. For the payment of 3.123 tolars we need information and your ID card. Loss of policy during permanent insurance is not an obstacle to payment." So, after a 12-year investment, 3,000 was a bonus, and then he gets 3,000 dollars. You know what, that's cheat number one in this country! And if we think about it, and those who are dealing with systems, how they run, we know that everything runs through a system of mandatory containers -- if you empty something, so it goes somewhere else. But then, where did this thing come together, it turned out to be in certain audits. This is also, in fact, what makes it possible to increase profits, representations and not to mention other things; this is an integral part. Look, this insurance company has screwed up a large number of insurance companies, of course at the expense of someone else to get it in their own pocket. This way we can't talk - to someone 1,000% positive interest, to another 1,000% negative to lose everything. So I warn the press and I appeal to them that when they write in the newspapers that the National Assembly has adopted such a law, they should be precise. Let them write down who approved such and such a law and who opposed it in order to know what was going on in this country, without interfering. So, once again, the operation of the insurance company should be taken seriously. However, it is also important to think seriously about the proposals for solutions that the government is also presenting and, therefore, there is still a need to take into account the proposals that we have tabled as an opposition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. Now I give the word "magic." Visionary. Then the Minister asked for the floor, and I ask him, does he want us to hear a speech earlier by colleague Kelemina and Sok, because we don't have any other applications before he wants a word? Then you agree, okay. Magus first. Visjak, the other two colleagues and the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u56	Thank you very much. In this kind of replica, it would only touch the Minister's point of view with regard to Article 18 and the indications that the anomaly has been removed and that there is a commitment here that the Compensation Society restores this relationship, which was disrupted by the recapitalisations after 1.1.2001. I have before me, this 18th article was already under the amendment of the government and amendments to the amendments and amendments. Thus, the matter is rather imprecise if we look at them without a clear text and I have a consolidated text before me, which explicitly states in the second paragraph: In the case referred to in the first paragraph, the custodian has the right to take over a proportionate proportion of the increase in the basic capital of the insurance undertaking corresponding to it. And then, "The custodian is obliged to pay at the same price" and so on. [[...]] That is said, in the first sentence we are talking about justice, and in the second sentence we are talking about how this right is being fulfilled. In short, when I read it, it's not a commitment, it's a right that someone can or can't fulfill. In short, it is not true that this dilemma, which I highlighted in the opening speech, is being resolved by the dilemma of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u57	Thank you very much. The Minister believes that he could cancel further discussions with an explanation. He'll see [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u58	Maybe just this part because it's important because it's an amendment and we have the same purpose. It is that the SOD is obliged to do so. I will now read, as you, Mr Member, have read. In the first part, the sentence actually reads as you said it has the right to do so. The following reads: "The guardian is due," but then you said, at the same price. No!It says: "The custodian is obliged to deposit in the insurance company a cash deposit and..." then at the same price. So our interpretation of this is perfectly clear. The custodian is obliged to pay this off and, of course, he has this right. That's all this is about. I'll give it to you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u59	We are now in the middle of a general debate under Article 183. We'll talk about the amendments in the second reading. Comrade Kelemin, colleague of Sok. First of all, my friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable. Personally, I think what has already been said is that we certainly need this law, but I think, given the debate that has taken place both on the Committee and here in the National Assembly, it all points out that the government has taken an extremely irresponsible approach to presenting this law and providing certain data. That's a fact. I was - because it also lasted for quite some time at the meetings of the working body - most of you were present, but you always brought some additional information along pieces and so on. You simply presented this law irresponsiblely because you did not want to - simply as if you did not want to burden Members with some information that is extremely urgent so that we can make the right decision at all. I don't know, it's your problem, it's your business. But there's also one thing -- I'm going to mention it myself, and when I wanted to get some data, I couldn't get it. [[...]] I wanted to know what happened to these unpaid premiums or what Dr. Bayuk said earlier, when it actually corrected these premium claims and the Ministry did not simply try to obtain these data from insurance companies or to provide them with them if they were available or from other institutions, but then they excuse themselves by not being competent. And once they have a majority in the supervisory boards, of course they'll give this data and so on. In short, extremely, in my opinion, irresponsible. But I'll tell you why you don't want to give information about these unpaid premiums and claims. Because I have learned that the country is one of those institutions that is most indebted and has not paid certain premiums. You signed the contracts and then you didn't pay the premium. The country here is one of the biggest debtors. How is that possible? How is it possible that you have signed certain contracts for certain insurance, which is of course necessary, and then you did not pay these things? How much is that? Why don't you give us that information? How was this dealt with? Where did you book this? Then how did you continue to practice these things? No, we don't have the data. And you just want us to believe and confirm this law in your beautiful words, which, of course, you have been saying here all along, so that you can pick up some political points or whatever else, if I've been through this and that law, which is extremely important to the country, and I don't know who else. In short, you took a very irresponsible approach, you did not service us with the data that you should service immediately upon presentation of the law. All the paperwork, even if it's a meter, two meters -- whoever wants to look at it. A lot of people wouldn't look, but maybe someone would. You are obliged to provide this information if you want the National Assembly and Members to make a responsible decision. But then they make fun of Members at all levels so they don't know what they're thinking, and so on or they don't know what it's all about. Of course not, if you don't give us information, if you're hiding information! We have not yet received this information and there is a great deal of question why the State, as one of the major debtors, did not pay these premiums. Why? We didn't get that answer and we can't get it either. Now I'm wondering when we're gonna get him. Is it true that when you have a majority share in the oversight committees and that you will be able to have a greater influence there and that you will then set up this information for us? I don't know when it's gonna be. In short, I am very dissatisfied with this way of working on the part of the government, the proposer, and I feel in essence played and very difficult even then properly and in the interests of some national interests, if I do not know what this is really about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u61	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and Members! In fact, I think it is a great shame that the Slovenian people cannot directly monitor this debate through national television, because you are talking about a big topic here today. And here, in fact, the Prime Minister, Drnovšek, should sit and answer the questions raised. Indeed, the basic question is why, despite all that has been said, all these claims write-offs, all these errors found, even by the Supreme Court, all of which are recorded that some individuals in this country have become very rich at the expense of irregularities in this system. On the other hand, we can listen to stories that people who have saved for many years have received virtually nothing from this; we all know how the regular premiums have increased under some assumption of loss in the largest insurance system. In fact, Dr Drnovšek, who has been running this country for ten years, who has practically allowed this to happen, should answer this question. He probably suspected that we would be able to ask Members to come here to Parliament and answer some questions, and he, as usual, went on such delicate topics as this so that we could not summon him. Well, that seems very interesting to me, and there was actually no answer to that. But the government doesn't feel responsible? Whether the largest government party that has ruled this country for ten years, with a coalition like this or not, does not feel responsible for practically allowing this and that this system has led to such imprudentness that we can hear about here today. How can it be, however, if these data, which are written here, are correct that the administrative awards have been paid and the supervisory board has even exceeded the amount of dividends paid since 1997. I have to say that I do not understand exactly how these things are going, but that the awards of the administration and the supervisory board could be bigger than dividends paid, I don't think that makes sense. This, in turn, shows that such administrations and such oversight councils were working only for themselves. It is said that the whole process led to these people making a lot of money and that today they can demand that their share of this system - I don't know, 15% - is a lot of money at this value of insurance companies. Here it has been said that Minister Rob has gathered a lot of courage and that he advocates this law, which should be passed earlier, I know that you have not always been a finance minister, that you were previously in another ministry, but I would really expect your Prime Minister to respond. If, of course, he is not, I would ask you to answer: Does the government feel guilty, that it has allowed such a situation for ten years, and that the government has actually brought us into a situation where we do not know how much social capital there is in this system and how private it is? However, I say again: some individuals have become very rich and I am beginning to believe what it says in Youth, that some of the policies that sit on such and different boards, sports clubs and the like are connected with this, and that it was financed by the insurance company and that they themselves helped or prevented this process, which lasted so long and somehow did not end. So now we are ahead of this solution, but the mistake has been made, and I am sure that before the Slovenian nation, the one who did this should answer. However, as Dr. Bajuk argues, there is no responsibility in this country, most often because people are not aware of it in practice, and even from this debate much, as I know from practice, they will not know; but Parliament has passed some law, such a law and so on, and this, of course, remains a secret to the Slovenian public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to the minister, let me just explain that with the power of minister, mag. She has appointed a representative in this debate to have full powers to represent her. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u64	Thank you. Dear Members and honourable Members! I think it is extremely important that I respond to what Dr Jerovšek is, not a doctor, Mr Jerovšek mentioned. Maybe it was a misunderstanding. I didn't say that there's no lack of public funds, so I'm making amends if I said that, and I'm sorry. I have made it very clear that the lack of public funds is not the reason why we have drawn up this law. The reasons are different; I told you where the reasons were, I told you what the goals were, and I told you what the intentions were. However, I also made it very clear that the public financial picture in Slovenia is such that it is necessary to save, as has been said that it is necessary to make it clear that certain limits exist and that savings will be needed. And here, of course, I tell you clearly that in this case we will come to the National Assembly and also clearly and transparently tell you where we will save and how we will save, when we do and if we decide to do so. I said earlier that there is no place or time to explain how the macroeconomic and public financial situation is, but given that it has been said, the fact that in 2001 and 2002 certain macroeconomic aggregates are such that the public financial resources are smaller than was estimated According to the latest assessment of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis, the assessment of private expenditure is lower, and some others, and there is a certain deficit from this title. However, from these resources, we will never, in any way, cover current public finances, but in the part where this will belong to the SOD and the SOD, only a public debt on the basis of denationalisation, which is clearly one of the biggest debts that awaits this country and taxpayers in the future. And by this law we undoubtedly reduce this part of public debt, relieve it, and relieve the burden of taxpayers. On the other hand, as regards the other things mentioned here, related to irregularities, I think we need to talk about irregularities in the following articles, in what way and how to get to the bottom of these things, transparently, and properly talk about them. It's hard to comment, I don't know, on individual insurance policies, because it's a business policy thing they took there, and it's probably hard to expect me to defend it, such a business policy - no doubt not! And I agree that if that's the way it is, it's worth it. But if the write-offs were claims - and there were write-offs and we know they were - it is known who will have to explain it. And this law will allow those who have to explain it to explain it in the end and to be responsible for it. And that's why this marriage is so important to this marriage, too. Individuals to be rich. Yes, individuals will truly be enriched if we do not adopt this law if we allow the social capital to continue to be devalued. Then there will really be what I'm warning you about. And that is exactly what we do with this law: we prevent individuals, individual groups, from obtaining such ownership shares that are absolutely unacceptable to this society. And I had the feeling that there was no parliamentary group that would disagree and that we all agree on this together. As for time and time, of course, why and at what time the marriage was prepared. We're this marriage -- this team that's now -- we're getting ready right now. They also filed appropriate actions during the interim period when individual recapitalisations were carried out as you could have monitored. This procedure and procedure have been going on for over a year, practically our entire mandate. Our determination is perfectly clear. However, it must also be said that, in the previous term, the former Minister came with a law which was repealed in the Constitutional Court. That's all I can say about it, of course.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u65	Does anyone else want a word in the general debate? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the general debate. We are in the fast-track reading process, so there is another treatment before us. This is a debate and decision on individual articles of the bill. First of all, I will make a procedural proposal to the National Assembly, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, to discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles. The proposed decision shall not be adopted if it opposes at least 1/3 of the Members present. I am putting this motion to the vote. 52 colleagues and colleagues are present. There were 44 votes in favour, 2 against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I note that this procedural proposal has been adopted. We are now moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. You've got a review ahead of you, I'm opening a debate on Article 2. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u66	Thank you so much for saying that. In the coalition of Slovenia, this is in the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia, we have put in a virtually series of amendments, which, as well as a general note in the review of amendments, are substantively linked. And that's why they're so complemented and somehow upgraded that it's hard to look at them for each other and they need to be over the whole set, of course, even explained. We have already explained them to our colleague Bajuk both on the parent committee in the form of the thesis and today, individually in our opening act. The essence of these amendments, I repeat for the third time today, because this is a concept that we somehow consider to be the most clear, most transparent and even fairest way to determine the relationship between undeclared and equity, which also follows the decision of the Constitutional Court. In fact, the essence of this set of amendments is to determine the capital on the basis of the known clear equity payments until 1.1.1991 and the same as the government proposes that the balance sheet should also determine the ratio between the equity established and, of course, the unspecified capital. For each year, equity shall be credited to and revalued, taking into account the dividends paid and thus, each year, the value of equity and, of course, the book value of the entire capital of the insurance undertaking - on the basis of this, the ratio between the unspecified and, of course, the share capital may also be determined. At the end of 1.1.2001, the valuation of insurance companies shall establish fair, that is market value, the value of the total capital. The difference between this fair value and the book value of equity, which is properly revalued all the time, this difference is the so-called unspecified capital - "good will" belongs to the unspecified capital. In short, this is the easiest way to determine the share of both equity and unnominated capital at the final stage, and it is completely simple and transparent to include all inputs after 1.1.2001. This is our proposal, which we are building up to determine, by means of a specific law, the eligibility to own this undeclared capital, whereby such legal and natural persons, of course, must be treated equally and equally with a specific law. The amendment also sets a time limit within which this should be fixed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I would just like to warn and add some explanation, which I see has not been fully included, and this is an explanation as to Article 2. It is true, as my colleague Vizjak has just explained, that all these amendments are crucially linked. But I would like to point out only the first, and this is about Article 2, because it is not only related to our vision or to the proposal that this issue should be fully resolved, but it is also important for what is a government proposal. In particular, I would like to draw attention to paragraph 4 of the second paragraph, which states that "are the total capital of the community, insurance or reinsurance undertaking on the starting day of the following item of the accounts on that day: the initial security fund representing the nominated capital and the unspecified capital consisting of the business fund and half of the security reserve fund" and other things. The question of why only half of this fund is already the principles of a meeting of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. We got an answer that this was supposed to be based on some actuarial knowledge, but we'd like to warn you about the following. It is pointless and impossible to rely on such or other professional opinion to reduce half of one fund, flatly, without any reason, because it is nothing more than a gift to present shareholders. This is perfectly clear to me, and what the government has explained to us at the meeting is not justified for legal formal and substantive reasons. The rules for backward cannot be changed, that is clear to everyone. To what today would be the basis for what would be the total undeclared capital, only half of one fund, this would only increase the value of equity in a very flat-rate way. Nor can the argument, which we have also heard in the debate on the Committee, when it is constantly getting high, the people who have invested have invested on the basis of the balance sheet. The balance sheet was for the entire fund, not half. Why is it that half of you, Mr Minister, have not yet explained this and I believe there is no explanation for this, either? I suggest that you accept the amendment to Article 2 presented by the Coalition of Slovenia, namely that the entire capital of the insurance undertaking or reinsurance undertaking on the starting day represent the items of the accounts on that day, as shown in accordance with the provisions of the current accounting law, which are reduced to an uncovered loss, but not on the basis of such flat-rate arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u70	If you don't mind, I'd like to comment on Article 2. We oppose the amendment to Article 2. Our position is perfectly clear. We believe that, on the basis of consultations with the most eminent experts in Slovenia, we have chosen one of the two possible methods to very clearly define, in the fourth paragraph of Article 2, what total capital is considered to be, whereas in Article 4, which is proposed here, reference is made to the applicable accounting law and it would be good for us to say from it how that applicable accounting law provides for all capital. And you're going to figure out how -- actually, he's leaving it open. We also do not see any need to state in Articles 5 and 7 the date of harmonisation on 31.12.2000; we regulate this in our law. In addition, paragraph 13 of this amendment is extremely controversial: "The beneficiaries to property are persons who were insured by the Triglav Insurance Community." We have explicitly excluded all foreigners, foreign legal persons from property, you now bring foreigners in and property of Slovenian insurance companies. That means this article without a doubt. On the other hand, as far as half of the Fund is concerned, I propose that the Secretary of State clarifys that we have come up with this in consultation with the experts with the actors, the whole matter stems from the need for substantive reservations to be made on a level playing field. And of course, because they had to be designed at that time, in the form of a security reserve. In addition, you bring evaluation into the law. And as soon as you have brought the valuation to 1.1.2001, it is quite clear that you do not know what the valuation will be, it is clear that you have opened the item and we do not know transparently what proportion of the whole matter we are taking, because we do not have an evaluation and we will have to carry out the evaluation, we will have to get the valueholders, of course this will take time, and then we will set up a discussion of the foreign valuers and these cases, if the valuation is done, how long will we do it, what will we do in the meantime, and what will we do in the meantime, and what will come out of it, we don't really know what will be the security reserves in the meantime. In short, our position is clear: we oppose.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary of State, please, Mr. Kuchar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. In the drafting of the whole law, in particular in the definition of capital, which is not defined by any accounting law, at least in insurance companies, the proposals were based on the profession. The insurance profession of the security reserve, the security reserve fund - whether it is capital, or the obligation, or the initial security reserve, which was also called the security reserve in the then jargon and in the then balance sheet, but the share capital was paid - does not explain why it is capital. From an expert point of view, we have defined the categories of capital and the category called security reserves, according to the actuarial profession, such categories are today called balancing reservations, i.e. liabilities. According to the actuarial profession, it is questionable, of course, from the point of view of the legislation at that time. The security reserve was created by excluding one part of the premium part from the premium part after all the damage and all the damage to the security reserve were settled. Today, as I said before, we would call it a settlement reservation. Since there was no law at the time that defined the compensatory provisions, it is, of course, possible to interpret that this security reserve was used in a functional purpose, also as a countervailing provision, i.e. as an obligation. Since this is a hybrid - it is said to be a balancing reservation, but perhaps also a capital - we have decided, after consulting the insurance professional, to define that half of the security fund is an obligation as a compensatory provision, which is also legal in 1994 and half of the capital. This fact does not change the substance of ownership, because it is a difference of about 1% in the largest insurance company, if we consider the countervailing provision as a whole - that is, the security reserve fund as a whole or only half as is correct in our professional opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u74	Thank you very much. It's interesting you're talking about the profession. In fact, as far as I'm aware, and also on the basis of the information you've provided to me yourself, it's just one expert, one person. But I would just like to remind all my colleagues that today I have finished my presentation with just some invitation to work professionally, but not in the profession that is oriented in the service of the common good, but not in the profession that always finds such and different reasons to be one and the same always "offers" in this country. There's no basis here, that's not the right basis. And if you think it was a hybrid, it's not clear whether it was capital or not, I don't know on what basis you just suddenly decided: half is, and half is not. So obviously this is where it goes -- and you say, that's a small thing. Of course, this is one of the great nuisances of the entire law, which will slowly give present shareholders what they should never have achieved in the rule of law. Thank you very much. Excuse me. However, of course, Mr Minister opposes the second paragraph of Article 2 but I am not mistaken because they are obviously linked to our entire approach, which you do not agree with, but not to yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. So much for the explanation: because all the amendments proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and the New Slovenia Group will be substantively linked, when we vote on the first amendment, which is to Article 2, in the event that we accept the amendment, we will also vote on all the related amendments, whose candidates are both sent to the group. However, if the amendment is not adopted, I will, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, find that there is no need to vote on the others because they have lost meaning. This is in accordance with Article 192, second paragraph. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the amendment of the two groups of Members to Article 2. We're voting. 62 Members and Members are present. The vote was 19 to 42. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I note that the amendment to Article 2 has not been adopted. In this way, I find, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 192, that the other related amendments, which are proposed by the SDS and the New Slovenia Group, do not need to be voted on because they have lost meaning. We decide on Article 2 as a whole. We're voting. There are 65 of us in attendance. The vote was 47 to 16. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that Article 2 is fully adopted. We're moving to page 5 of the amendment review. The amendment proposed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been tabled under order number 2 by Article 9. I am opening a debate on the article and the amendment. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment, an explanation of vote, Mr Vizjak, a procedural proposal, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u76	Yes, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, I ask you for a 15-minute recess for consultation in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u77	Before the vote. On the proposal of the parliamentary group, I shall give a 15-minute leave for consultation before the decision is taken. We'll pick it up at 16.52. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u78	Ladies and gentlemen, since we will continue, please come to the hall. The Group of the Social Democratic Party requested a recess before deciding on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 9. Before I ask the representative, if he wants a word, we will be able to determine the presence in the Chamber, so I would like some attention. We're picking up a presence at the hall. There are 54 of us present, the National Assembly is adjourned, and it can decide. I give the floor to the representative of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Mag. Vizier, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u79	Thank you very much. In the Social Democratic Party and even in the Coalition of Slovenia, we have made a great deal of efforts in this law, in the way this law is implemented and implemented. Therefore, after careful consideration and even after obtaining some documents, we decided to amend the law or to introduce and implement a concept whereby we believe that we would be more just in determining the value and share of undeclared capital in the entire capital of the insurance undertakings and, in particular, the insurance company Triglav. This concept has been rejected entirely by rejecting the amendment to Article 2 because you yourself have found that there is no vote on the other articles. We would like to say that our concept, which is clear and which would also give clear and uniform solutions, would lead to the fact that, on the one hand, shareholders who are known, it would allow decent returns, while protecting what the Slovenians invested in the insurance community, not only in this decade, but practically in a much longer period. Otherwise, I must say that the Minister of Finance's explanation follows a similar desire, following similar objectives, to protect this undeclared capital. However, this does not result entirely in uniformity from the conduct of the law. We know that it can be the result of such an adopted law two years from now or before, and this can also be the reason for the replacement of a finance minister and for the installation of someone who will be able to implement another application that this law also provides. That is why we believe and do not want to take responsibility for such solutions that are likely to be adopted today by the State Assembly. Therefore, we are predicting the obstruction of the continuation of the text, or also of these agenda items. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u81	Thank you very much. The New Slovenia Group has also decided to obstruct itself, believing that the proposal set up by the Coalition of Slovenia represents a much better solution to the resolution of this law, irrespective of the objectives and stated objectives, that they are unattainable on the basis of such data, which I have discussed for a long time this morning. Since we do not want to take any responsibility for such a law as will certainly be adopted, we will leave this meeting on the basis of the rights conferred on us by the Rules of Procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. Even on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we do not want to participate in the system of cooperation within the framework of liberal democracy and therefore, on behalf of our parliamentary group, we are also predicting obstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-07-SDZ3-Izredna-18.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I note that three parliamentary groups, namely the Social Democratic Party, the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Slovenian National Party, have announced obstruction in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and have also left the Chamber. We are moving on to a decision on the second amendment to Article 9. The amendment is proposed by the government. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 9 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 9 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 10 and under order number 2 of the Committee's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment of the committee has been adopted. We decide on Article 10 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 10 is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 11 and on the four amendments. Under order number 2, the Government's amendment, under 3 committees, is under 4 amendments to the Government's amendment, of which the Committee is the proposer, and under 5 amendments to the government. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. First, about the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under three. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present, 48 votes against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on an amendment to the government's amendment under order number four. We're voting. There are 49 Members and Members present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number five. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And we are now deciding on the 11th full article. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 12 and under order number two, the amendment of the Government to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment. We're voting. There are 50 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 12 as a whole. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to the 12th review of the amendments and to the debate and decision-making I am putting Article 15 and under the order number two of the Government's amendments to this Article. Would you like to discuss it? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 15 as a whole. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 17 and on the four amendments to this Article. Under 2, 3 and 4 are the amendments of the government and under 5 are the amendments of the group of Members with the first signed Cyril Puck. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 3. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.( Against none.)]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 4. We're voting. There are 48 of us here. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under order number 5. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 17 as a whole. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on I8. Article and four amendments. Under order number 2, the amendment to the government's amendment, proposed by Zoran Gračner, is under the 3rd amendment of the government, under the 4th amendment of the committee and under the 5th amendment of Zoran Gračner. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision. First of all, under order number two is the amendment to the government's amendment. We're voting. Unfortunately, the first vote has not been successful, so I ask for some attention. Second, we vote on the amendment to the amendment under order number 2. We're voting. There's 49 of us here. The vote was 48 against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the amendment to the amendment under 2 has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 3. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 4. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We also decide on the amendment under 5. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 18 as a whole. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 19 and under order number 2 of the amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 21 and under order number 2 of the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the 21st article as a whole. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. The vote was 47 to 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 22 and under order number 2 of the Government's amendment to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and paragraph 22 has been amended. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on just a moment. [[...]] We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 24 and the amendment of the Government, which is set out in order number 2 to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making, first of all to amendment number two. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 24 as a whole. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 26 and the amendment of the Government under order number 2 to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 47 votes against none. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 27 and the amendment under order number 2 to this Article, of which the proposer is the Government. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 27 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want to talk? As no, we are moving on to deciding on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote! There are 47 of us present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we are going to vote on the title of the law. Let's vote! There's 49 of us here. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that amendments to the draft law were adopted in the second reading. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this open article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? [[No, no, ……]] I am asking the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, which, because of the amendments adopted, has violated mutual compliance with the provisions of the law? [[It's not.]] Thank you very much. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! There are 50 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 18th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I thank the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Secretariat very much for their cooperation. Thank you also to Members and Members of Parliament very much and goodbye.
