ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u1	Please take your seats and put your voting cards in the voting machines, so we will have a easier review of our presence. I think there's enough of us in the hall to start the session. At least that's what it says on "display." Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! Nice greeting at the following 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I'll ask for your attention. Before I determine the presence in the Chamber, I would like to inform you that some of our colleagues are absent. These are colleagues: Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Janez Janša, Joseph Špindler and Andrej Gerenčer. I have no other applications or apologies for my absence. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. Representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia were invited to attend the meeting. When they join us in the debate, we will greet them well. As you have already been informed, at today's 14th session, we will consider the adjourned 27th item of the agenda, which is the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. We will begin the third treatment of this point. Then we will move on to the 19th point, this is the proposal for an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2002 and the 31st point, this is a bill amending the law on local elections. Before I move on to the 27th point, I propose that we leave an open question on whether we will be working until only six o'clock today or even longer. I propose that this issue be decided by the State's Procedural Assembly at six o'clock, if necessary. At that time, the majority in Parliament will also show whether, in the event that we do not draw up the points, the decision-making process provides for the items we have on the agenda today, namely 27th, 19th and 31st. Now I hear they're informing me that the amendments are still being filed. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] [[...]] I ask whether, given that the amendments are still being tabled and that it is necessary for proper guidance and decision-making to gather and distribute this, who is against us going to the Parliamentary Law so that we do not waste time and then return to the Rules of Procedure. Anyone would object to this, or else I will order the necessary leave to respect the parliamentary right that amendments may still be tabled, and of course our duty to divide them into benches before making a decision. No one's objecting? Objection? Then I'll order a break, 20 minutes. We'll continue at 2.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u2	We'll continue our adjourned session. We have almost all the amendments tabled. I'm informed that one of the documents, I think it's paragraph 42, isn't in front of you yet. If we get to him before he's on the bench, we'll decide whether to wait for him to split up or if we can read him orally. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! Colleagues and colleagues, please press the "quorum" button. The National Assembly is adjourned, 54 of us are present, it can be decided. I suggest we arrange the documents that are in front of us. As it is said, you do not yet have an amendment to the 42nd Article tabled by the four members of the LDS, so you must have an amendment to the 21st Article tabled by the LDS Club to the 69th Article as well as an amendment by the LDS Club to the 167th Article, the LDS Amendment and to the 288th Article, the Slovenian National Party Amendment. Thus, you have an overview of the amendments tabled by the New Slovenia Group and the Socialist Party's parliamentary group to these and other articles. It will therefore be necessary to be very focused in the conduct of the debate and decision-making. I suggest we get started. We're at 27. agenda item 3 of the draft Rules of Procedure. Qualified candidates tabled the amendments. I suggest we move on to a decision on the amendments. Please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I can see that some groups of amendments are not on the bench, even though they were filed at the same time as everyone else. I don't know what it's like to distribute or copy this set of amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u4	What group of amendments is that?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thus, the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia Group have tabled two groups of amendments. The only difference is that the New Slovenia Group is the first to be written and the Social Democratic Party as the second. In another group of amendments, however, it is the other way around. And these others are not on the benches of Members and Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u6	You will now receive the amendment of the four groups of Members by article 42. However, we are trying to find out what is going on with the amendments tabled by the two groups. If colleagues from two parliamentary groups and, of course, others agreed that amendments from the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party and the New Slovenia should be tabled, given that they have been made since the 49th Article forward - do you agree, can we start? - but, of course, as we say, we cannot decide before we decide whether the condition for discussion and conclusion is also a document on the table. The first amendment, which we therefore have, colleagues and colleagues, is the amendment of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. Anybody want a word about the amendment? This is an amendment to Article 21. Anybody want a word? Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the proposer, because here it is indicated by indents, i.e. there are eight indents here. It is said that these questions are somehow within the purview of the College. According to the proposal, this is said to be the decision of the College, so what substantive issues can 20 or a quarter or a fifth of Members propose re-decision on the plenary and against which decisions do not? I'd like to ask the proposer to explain.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u8	Before I give my word to my colleague Anderlich, my hand was raised by my colleague Sok. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! The 68th Article of the Rules of Procedure refers to this: I think that 68th, in the case where Members submit a proposal for a law, they must also present to the proposal an explanation or an indication of how a similar system works in at least three European Union countries. This is one of the conditions which must be submitted to each bill. Applicants would ask: Can they confirm in which three countries of the European Union have the same business arrangement as this one is written here today? In fact, everything is the same as before, with the difference that one paragraph has been added so that one-fifth of the Members can in writing oppose the decision taken at the college. Otherwise, the matter is in no way different from the previous. I think that we have voted seven times on this article, and we have also argued seven times that the College, on the basis of weighted votes, would take decisions that are, in fact, Parliament's decisions in each Parliament, but not the College of the President of the National Assembly, in the manner set out in this Rules of Procedure. Therefore, this solution is not in the interest of the anti-biocratic programme, which the coalition has in its coalition contract, but it actually inspires this solution, I would say, this need for bureaucracy, after Members will have to raise one fifth of the support if they do not agree with the College's proposal. Above all, when the college decides to say that a proposal tabled by the opposition is not a follow-up procedure, but simply by voting on the college, you will reject it. Well, I'd like to explain if you could tell me what the motions are. Is there even a country in the European Union that has a similar solution, or is it, in fact, some of the refugees that we have invented in Slovenia, just to save a proposal that is, I would say, at least for some of the opposition, or for the whole opposition, unacceptable? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u11	As far as the question of Mr Visiak is concerned, I think it is undeniably clear that in all those decisions that the College is supposed to decide, a fifth of Members may request, except, of course, those matters which are mentioned in the explanatory memorandum. So here, I don't think it's too embarrassing. As far as Mr Sok is concerned, in fact, this question is in some ways incomprehensible, because the European Union countries themselves are coordinated within themselves and must be harmonised. Therefore, they do not have specific periods and ways of adopting legislation, in terms of adapting to the European Union. They are harmonised within. However, what they are currently accepting is accepted in accordance with the guidelines. So it's not a clear question in this part. However, as far as all Member States or countries wishing to become members are concerned, it is clear that in the framework of the pre-accession strategy and the programme they make their internal acts in order to comply with the guidelines of the European Union. And that's the basic thing. But as far as the need for legislation is concerned, we have adopted an amendment in the second reading to the elements that must be included in a proposal by the Member. I think Mr Cukjat has explained this and we have accepted that it is a differentiated rate. That is to say that the motioners, Members, have an additional opportunity to explain and document the law with those necessary elements for the government, for example, assume in themselves that they must be included in the legislative procedure when the law is submitted. We've already accepted that in our second reading. And that's what I think was your joint amendment. Mr. Cuckoo, I think this is where he explained it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u12	My friend Peterle's got a word behind him, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would just like to challenge or clarify something about the adaptation of our legislation to the European Union's legislation. We are not doing this rule of law, but we are not doing it because we will continue to adapt to this legislation for a while, we are not doing it for a little more than 60 laws, but we are doing it for other purposes, I suppose, so I do not accept this argument.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you very much. My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to go a little bit further on the subject of this 21st or amendment to the 21st Article. In fact, if we accept this amendment, which was written by the LDS delegation, then we can essentially close our democratic "stack". In fact, it is an unconstitutional amendment, which stipulates that, in today's case, two people will be able to decide on behalf of the entire national assembly. In fact, it reads: "The meeting of the College is final if it is attended by the leaders of the parliamentary groups whose members represent more than half of all Members of the National Assembly." And if we take the number of LDS members that are 34 and add to the number of SDS members that are 13, we get 47 votes and 47 votes, which will only represent two people. 82nd Article of the Slovenian Constitution, which looks or hopes to still be in force in Slovenia, states in its first paragraph: "The Members of all the people and are not bound to any instructions." However, on behalf of all Members, the Head of the Group of Members will be able to decide what will happen and how Members of the Parliament should decide. And then, somehow, in explanation, this matter is justified, so that within five days, a fifth of the Members may request that these matters be decided by the National Assembly. But a fifth of Members means 18 Members. A single Member has the right to introduce a law or a proposal for a law. Ten Members still have the right to submit or sign the interpolation. By adopting this amendment, in this case Members would be deprived of the mandate of a Member and in this regard this amendment is unconstitutional, as it also states in the explanatory memorandum that, if this amendment is amended, the College is also competent to take certain decisions for the National Assembly of the Binding Decision, which is totally contrary to our legislation and the Slovenian Constitution. I think that when this amendment is adopted, the totalitarian direction of liberal democracy, which President Janez Drnovšek has already lost its compass, where and how the legal situation in the Republic of Slovenia should be handled and regulated, is being further emphasized. With such amendments, Slovenia is nearing those countries from which it is once intended to secede, leave, split, split or whatever else I know. Worse. Even in those countries, it's gone. This can only be compared with some of the most totalitarian countries in the world, where, in fact, Parliament has only and only as a form, for the form to be painted and there is no right. And again. This amendment is, in fact, a terrifying form of trying to take power from one or two leading or ruling parties. Whether it be the LDS today with the United List or tomorrow's liberal democracy along with social democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I ask for peace in the hall, both between our colleagues and colleagues, as well. Comrade Sok, you have your word, after you, Comrade Vizjak and then Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you for your word. I would like to rephrase Mr Anderlich's proposal for a moment. So I understand that it is not necessary for the countries of the European Union to adopt this legislation for harmonisation, but that we do it. But I've asked you a question and now, of course, I'm correcting myself because I quoted the wrong article earlier. Thus, Article 116 states that when a Member or a parliamentary group proposes a law, it must, inter alia, present in the introduction a presentation of the regulation in other legal systems and the adaptation of the proposed regulation of European Union law. The display of regulation in other legal systems should include a display of regulation in at least three legal systems of the Member States of the European Union. Of course, it's something that, I'd say, is extremely difficult. This is a major obstacle to the opposition, how the opposition should do so. Although we have proposed an amendment on this proposal, it has not been adopted. Another amendment was adopted, which gave the opportunity to request the applicant to supplement its proposal, which, of course, does not modify this Article 116 in any way. So I just wanted to know from the proposaler whether there are such and similar solutions in the European Union countries. Well, that's what I'm interested in. In our case, as proposed, of course, 18 Members could in writing oppose the College's decision. This means that the Coalition of Slovenia, at this point in time, if, of course, we adapt the matter to the current situation, could, within five days, require a decision to be taken by the National Assembly, but the remaining three smaller parties, who are currently in this House, do not have these majority and would certainly not be able to collect 18 votes. Thus, of course, this correction of this article does not alter in any way the position we have already expressed. We will certainly not support this proposal in New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u18	I'd like to give my word to my colleague Visiak if he wants it. Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. I would like to repeat to my respectable colleague Jelinčič, who constantly surprises me with his combinatorial and numerous positions of the Social Democratic Party in one form and another.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u20	But that's not the subject of this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u21	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u22	It's not an object.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u23	Yes, this is the subject of a replica by Mr Jelinčič, a fellow Member, who twice in his debate put the Social Democratic Party into the government coalition and that it will have a majority with some parties and, of course, it will be free and voluntary after not knowing what principle the Social Democratic Party has a clear political picture. [[...]] It is in coalition with New Slovenia and we intend to stay in it. And take that fact as a fact. And all the other hints seem to me only the fruit of imagination and they have no basis and no basis and probability for the future on the basis of the current relations and attitudes of these parties. So that only so many things could be explained to my colleague Jelinčić that his fears are superfluous, that we will now sort things out in a kind of party way or whatever we call it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Comrade Rokavec, you're the last one to want a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you for your word. Also a replica of Mr. Jelinčič. In my opinion, the amendment to Article 21 tabled by the LDS House represents the minimum balance. It is a fact that, on the basis of the weighted votes in the college, two or three parliamentary groups will vote and vote without serious consideration and also take into account the arguments of the opposite party, the opposition will in any event be able to request a decision by the national assembly within 5 days. And if it does not, and if it is only twice, try to vote in this way in college three times, then I am sure that it will come to practice very soon to realize that there is a need to reach a minimum agreement already in college. And from this point of view, I see that this solution is some form of minimum balance in college decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u26	Look, the minimum condition for good work is that there's peace in the hall. He's gone now. Before I give my word to my colleague Jerovšek and beyond, I would ask all those who disturb the work to stop doing so. I'm asking for peace in the hall. My friend Jerovšek and my colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Indeed, I cannot, when I have examined this or when it has been rustling, what is proposed as something acceptable and which gives the position a real opportunity to draw attention to some things, I have expected a real concession. But it's not a concession. In view of the fact that these matters are again, if one-fifth of the Members are against the decision of the College and have decided to do so by the State Assembly without discussion and explanation of vote, this is, frankly, a farce. It's a drink article trying to seduce the public. In fact, if a decision has already been taken on the college and even without discussion and without explanation of vote, it is quite clear that what the great ones have decided in the college will also be adopted and voted in the plenary. And don't throw sand in your eyes that we have anything here, any position that any concession has been given. No, it's sad that you come up with such suggestions. But anyone who knows little about democracy knows that doesn't mean anything. And he's literally making fun of people, and I'm also surprised to hear from my colleague Rokavac, who is usually a very good analyst to see an opportunity against hegemony in this. In fact, this article gives a mercy shot to democracy and legitimizes hegemony to the end. This paragraph is a masterpiece of transposition that we have been trained in the previous regime. This paragraph is shameful. And I ask you, fellow Members, to imagine how you try to drive MEPs through the water. And I strongly object to that. But then I'll be in the debate about other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you very much. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief. I must replicate to my fellow Members Mr Visiak and to Mr Rokavac. The President of the Slovenian National Party simply used the names of the parties and the substance of his comments to Article 21 was perfectly clear. Once again, it means that, under the terms of Article 21, two representatives or two leaders of eight parliamentary groups may take a decision for 90 Members. And the essence of his second message was that this was in absolute contradiction with Article 82 of the Constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much. We have three replicas. Comrade Rokavec, Petty Officer and Jerovska. Please, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you for your word. This is the last time I've heard from you. But, Comrade Jerovšek! The last paragraph of Article 21 of this amendment states that the representative of the group of Members referred to in the preceding paragraph, which opposed the decision of the College in writing, may explain the position of the Group of Members at the meeting of the National Assembly. The presentation of the position may not be longer than 5 minutes. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u33	So we're going around the idea of college. Mr. Anderlich! This is always happening, in a way that the college works, it is not by any definition of colleges. It's not a college, it's an abuse of the concept of college. That would be like a company where we have five departments and five leaders. And where most employees are employed, then the Director-General decides with the majority because he has the majority. That'd be a lot of fun from the point of view of college. The college is attended by all department heads and decides or discusses how they will do so. It can't be, it can't be college. Use another term, say, I don't know, a mini-national council, where only the leaders of the parliamentary groups decide according to their weight. What kind of democracy is this? It's just such a crazy innovation. It's not college, it's a smile! Really, I'm disgusted with all this. For all those who attend the heads of the parliamentary groups, whose members represent more than half of all Members, this shall be placed in each paragraph. I don't know what that's gonna be. Only the president and you will meet. You don't have to get us into this. Then let's say that the college is simply a college of coalitions. Yes, the College of the ruling coalition, in order to harmonise itself in order to have balanced or coordinated legislative proposals, so that they will not be the way they are now coming from the government, so that you will get a good look at them. This isn't college. Please! The College, however, deals with matters relating to the organisation of the functioning of the National Assembly. It's some kind of government council management, not decision-making. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u35	Buddy Rockhead! You surprised me once again. Of course I've read it. But I have to say, I have to translate this into a normal language, this dictatorship. In fact, two of the strong in the college will be voted on in any case. However, the representative of the opposition group has the right to bark at the plenary for five minutes at the moon. That's how it should be written. This is transparent, and it would be fair to write it down. Let's not sell something to the public that doesn't hold. And if there's no one ashamed of such a dictatorship and all that, then have it written down. I think one day it'll show what it is, but it's too late to warn us to plead for democracy. It's too late. Many times in history, it was too late when a group or some individuals received hegemony and subsequently became engrossed in democracy. And I think there's a serious danger here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u36	There are no new applications on my list for [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u37	I have a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u38	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u39	It's a debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u40	You have a debate. Please. I'll limit that to five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. In my understanding of Parliamentism and democratic procedures in parliaments, which are small, as is ours, of course, it is necessary to give Members an objective and normal opportunity to express their political views. I understand that in the German, Italian, English Parliament, no whole assembly of more than 600 Members can sit together and that everyone can advertise and that even together, I do not know, they are preparing all things. However, we are a Parliament the size of the stronger committees of these parliaments. And that must be taken into account. And from this point of view, I would ask the question whether it is good for this country and for this Parliament - Mr President, but especially for you - that we are putting in place a system when the elected President of the National Assembly will not be the actual position of one in this National Assembly. And I am setting this up regardless of the combination of parties in the future, because I am sure that even if it happens, in the next or any other term, the President of the National Assembly will be from the most powerful party and the President of the College from his party will be someone else to have a strong dissipation, a conflict of interest, a show of muscle between them, and this is not good for the country. I am in favour of the fact that the elected President of the National Assembly is also the actual President, to have authority to decide what he is also deciding, because everything else is, in my opinion, bad. In the current Parliament, where this has not yet been legalised, these ambitions are very strong, and this has led to a lot of unpleasant situations in which our national assembly has suffered. And Mr President, I will ask you directly: are you personally aware of this and agree? If you agree, then allow me to comment otherwise, and then you are no longer number one in the client. But in the client, she took over the power of a real, more dogmatically oriented majority. And in this place, in this country, I'm afraid of a more dogmatic majority. We are not yet so mature in democracy that we can with a calm heart let go of the solutions that smell dogmatic. I think that in this national assembly, everyone should take the lead in dealing with particularly democratic solutions. Taking into account the smallness of our National Assembly, the possible adoption of effective rules of procedure - I am simply for normal rules of procedure, for changes to the Rules of Procedure. However, with such solutions, it will be difficult for me to land because what we are improving somewhere else is threatening democracy in this country. I say we put her in danger. And, as I said before, it's never too early to warn about the threat of democracy, but it's often too late. Although it is not a comparison of the most drastic case, since the Munich Agreement, when some European leaders have said, only now will we give him a chance - it was too late. The comparison is drastic, but I would point out that we must be aware of the consequences in this national assembly. And on the other hand, I must - what will we do with this, how will this work, when the leader of the most powerful party here is extremely powerful, and at the same time we hear his leader, it is said, the holy party, that it is not good that he has power. It's called a separate party. There will be strange decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on this Article. We're moving to the vote. We have before us the amendment to Article 21. It was submitted or submitted by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. I am putting this amendment to the vote. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 76 present, 55 for, 18 versus. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 18.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to a decision on Article 22. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. Present 76, 14 for, 56 versus. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 56.]] I'm guessing he didn't get the support. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party to Article 34. We have five amendments to these two parliamentary groups. I'm putting everything into consideration. If no one wants a word, we'll decide on them. So that there is no misunderstanding, I will also read the text of the amendment. You have a review. Do you have a checkup? Excuse me. Then I don't have to. The amendment under order number 1 to Article 34 will be decided first. We're voting. 76 colleagues and colleagues are present. 20 for, 52 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the proposal did not receive support. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. 71 in attendance, 19 in, 47 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We decide on the amendment under order number 3. I'm asking for peace in the hall. If anyone thinks we're going too fast, I'll slow down. 70 present, 21 for, 47 versus. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 47.]] He didn't get any support. We are moving on to an amendment decision under order number 4. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number 4. 72 in attendance, 17 in, 53 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 53.]] I'm guessing he didn't get the support he needed. Finally, we decide on the amendment under order number 5. We're voting. 75 present, 19 for, 53 versus. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 53.]] He didn't get any support. We have an amendment to Article 42. If anyone thinks I'm going too fast, I'll slow down the procedure. Article 42. Anybody want a word? There's a third treatment. There is no full vote on the article. Article 42 It's a debate. There's no debate. We're going to make a decision. We have an amendment under order number 1 of the four groups of Members. We're voting. We're voting. 76 present, 64 for, 7 versus. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] The amendment was voted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 49, which has been corrected and is in a different text than you have before you. The amendment to Article 49 was corrected here at the Bureau's table. The amendment reads as follows: Article 49, in the first paragraph, the word link, quote, "the opinion of the interested public", the end of the quote, corrected by a word link, which reads, quote, "the opinion of the interested public", the end of the quote. I'm opening a debate. My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u43	Your Honor! Already in the second reading, it was pointed out that Members have great responsibilities, and hard work awaits them in advance, since at least five days before the committee meeting they will have to prepare and submit the amendments. I think we should also commit a little, both the government and the secretariat for legislation, to prepare their opinions on the Committee's deliberations. For the proper, quality design of the amendments in the first reading is essential, in addition to knowledge of the basic proposal of the law, also knowledge of the opinion of the secretariat and knowledge of the opinion of the government when the proposer is not a government, and of course all interested public. I think it's very important. For this reason, we propose that somehow these institutions undertake to prepare these materials 14 days before the meeting of the Committee, so that Members can then form their proposals for amendments by the fifth day before the meeting. As it is said, the main text referred to in the last line of article 49 is this: the opinion of the Government, the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the opinion of the public concerned may also be provided by reference to the meeting, as there may be no such opinions. But if they will, let them commit themselves to convey these opinions 14 days before the work of the committee, so that amendments can be prepared in such a quality manner. We therefore propose that you support this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u44	Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we'll vote. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 49, which has been corrected. In order to avoid misunderstandings, the last line reads: "The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and any opinions or opinions of the public concerned." Is he okay? Thank you. Let's vote! I'm asking for peace in the hall. 78 in attendance, 76 in, 1 in. [[The vote was 76.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have two amendments to the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia to Article 65. I am opening a debate for which no one is interested. We can go to the vote. First, on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. Attending 78, 29 for, 46 versus. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment under order number 1 did not receive the necessary support. We will decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Present 70, 23 for, 45 for. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 45.]] The amendment under order number 2 did not receive the necessary support. The New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party have tabled a proposal to delete Article 68. Anybody want to talk about it? Comrade Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm voting against it because I think there's a conceptual brief contact in the explanation. In fact, Members are not directly accountable to their constituents. By the Constitution, we are accountable to all the people.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u46	Anyone else? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 68. Present 77, 25 for, 47 versus. [[The vote was 77.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment did not receive the necessary support. We have two amendments tabled to Article 69 of the two previously mentioned parliamentary groups and to the LDS Club. Anybody want a word? Nobody. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 69. We're voting. Attending 74, 22 for, 46 versus. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 69. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u47	I would just like to say that, in the second reading, we accepted the 69th article of the amendment, which was linked to Article 72, and since it was not voted in 72, it is in fact already harmonised, rather than at a later stage. So please, if he backs up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u48	Okay, I gave you my word. Anyone else? Nobody. Then we shall vote on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 69. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 69. 76 present, 55 for, 21 versus. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are on page 5, still at the bottom of page 5, at the 73rd in our review. The amendments are proposed to the Socialist Party and to the New Slovenia Group. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 73. We're voting! We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 73. He didn't get any support. 47 Members and Members voted against, 29 of them supported by 77. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're on page 6 and heading 116. I am putting the text of the amendment of the two parliamentary groups, the New Slovenia parties and the Social Democratic Party to the debate. Since no one wants to discuss it, we will move to a vote on the amendment under order number 1 to 116. We're voting. 72 in attendance, 24 in, 45 in. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposal did not receive the necessary support. We have two amendments to 135. My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u49	Your Honor! We are again in procedural matters or in the process allowing Members to work in a quality manner. The text to be amended by the Committee and the Committee to adopt the amendments will then, as corrected, be published in the internal bulletin of the National Assembly. And only this text will be the basis for the debate at the meeting of the National Assembly. Nowhere is it said when and how long Members should have this corrected, supplemented text available to prepare themselves. This preparation may be quite difficult if we hope that laws containing 300 articles, 50 amendments will be adopted and so on. Without a copy of the completed text, it will be difficult to prepare. In addition, the Rules of Procedure require discussion at the meeting and the submission of amendments or the signature of the parliamentary group, but of course if the Member does not receive the support of the entire parliamentary group, he must hunt around after the national assembly for at least ten signatures. That takes time, too. If we want to make this work possible, then we need to define in a way that we can ask Members, from 10 Members or Members of the Group, to table amendments five days before the meeting, only if we allow these Members to receive this material in time. This is a copy of the corrected, updated text. And here we propose that this revised text should be published in an internal publication 14 days before the meeting. I don't think that's too hard. After all, these services must be disciplined and Members should be given the material in time to prepare themselves. However, if this is not possible, it may be published two days before the meeting, but the deadline of the broadcast would be 5 days before the meeting. That's what you say. That's impossible. In this case, however, if this is not ensured, amendments should be allowed until the beginning of the meeting of the national assembly. I think that is correct and that we must have so much respect for the work of Members. If we don't have that respect, no one else will. That's for the first amendment. To the second amendment, however, there were many words that all Members, not just the parliamentary group, should have the right to propose amendments for the plenary session. I think we too much want to reduce the Member's personality to the number of the Group of Members. I don't think that's good. And that this is contrary to the basic intent of the Constitution, which gives only one member autonomy. I therefore propose that both amendments be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u50	Anyone else want a word? I see you don't. I therefore conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the two amendments tabled to Article 135. The first amendment, i.e. the amendment under order number one, is now put to the vote. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 135. He didn't get any support. 28 voted in favour, 44 against, of 74 present. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 44.]] He didn't get any support. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Nor did this one receive the necessary support. There were 44, 29 for, out of 76 present. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 44.]] He didn't get any support. We have one amendment tabled to Article 161 of the two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party. Anyone want a word about the amendment? I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 161. The amendment did not receive the necessary support. 45 to 24 for, of 70 present. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 45.]] He didn't get the support he needed. On page 7 of your review you have colleagues and colleagues of the amendment to the 163rd members of the same parliamentary groups. I'm opening a debate. No one wants the word, so we are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 163. We're voting. Peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. The amendment did not receive the necessary support. 47 were against, 26 for 73. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We also have one amendment tabled to Article 166. Since no one wants to discuss it, I am also putting an amendment to this article to the vote. Let's vote! We're in the middle of a vote! The amendment did not receive the necessary support. Of the 73 attended, 24 were for and 48 were for. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. As of 167, we have two amendments, two amendments. It is the same amendment of the two candidates. Is that right? Please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u51	In fact, it is more than just a matter of drafting, for there is a greater clarity, for after the current dictatorship, the proposal of the State Budget Final Account shall be submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for admission, together with the final report of the Court of Auditors by 1 October of the current year at the latest. It is only a matter of defining that this is a final account for the past year. I think it's basically also in the Public Finance Act. However, it is not for anyone to believe that the proposal for a final account, for example for 1998, is now being submitted in 2002. It's last year. This is essentially an editorial and harmonisation with the Public Finance Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u52	Is there no ambiguity that the words are the same? Comrade Anderlich, you are the second amendment's proposal. Do you agree that the texts are the same? Then there will be no misunderstandings in the vote. Good. Then we will vote on both amendments. First, we move on to the decision on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! 75 present. 67 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Protty 2.]] I take it the amendment has received support. I estimate that there is no need to vote on the amendment under order number 2. As of 181, we have the last page of the amendment to 181. I don't see any deadlines for discussion. I conclude it and we move on to the vote. Let's vote! I'm asking for peace in the hall! Even in the back of the hall, please! We're in the middle of a vote, and we all need focus! 72 in attendance, 24 in, 46 in. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 46.]] I note that the proposal is not adopted. We're moving on to Article 245. I don't see any interest in the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. We decide on the amendment under Article 1 to Article 245. The amendment received the necessary support. 62 for, 8 to 71. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Peace in the hall! I won't go on until there's peace! Article 284 is before us and an amendment has been tabled. Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you very much. It's a crucial matter. According to the current text of Article 284 it would be considered that all the proposals for laws which have not yet been first examined would have been considered as if they had never been tabled. It says here that the legislative process has not yet begun. This is because the legislative process begins. Here we propose by this amendment that this word link be deleted, that is to say, that the initial procedure has begun and the proposal is being considered in accordance with the newly adopted rules of procedure. This means that these bills, which have been tabled, are also in fact tabled for the further legislative process to be carried out in accordance with the established solutions to the new Rules of Procedure. According to the present, these laws are not considered to have been introduced at all, and we are opposed to them, so we are making this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u54	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will move to a vote on the amendment of two parliamentary groups, the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia to Article 284. Let's vote! Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 284! We're in the middle of a vote. The amendment received the necessary support. 71 to, 4 to 78. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Colleagues and colleagues! Let us vote on the last amendment tabled to Article 288. Nobody wants a word. We will also decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 288. Let's vote! I'm asking for peace in the hall! Article 288 and the amendment tabled. 50 versus, 22 for, 77 present. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 50.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. Is the text harmonised? [[It's not consistent.]] Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Because of the two amendments adopted, Article 49 and Article 245, the Secretariat would like to examine more closely the consistency, since at first glance we find that the solutions in these two amendments adopted are incompatible with some of the other solutions adopted in the text of this Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u56	You said 39 and 245? 49. Thank you very much. So, paragraphs 49 and 245. You can look at the text. Do you want more time to make a decision about possible inconsistencies? So you're suggesting we stop for a certain time, or half an hour is enough. Please. Is 15 minutes enough?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u57	As far as we're concerned, we'd like half an hour.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u58	Half an hour. All right, then we'll schedule this half-hour break. We're gonna break this agenda. I suggest we not take a break for the National Assembly if you agree to continue. We'd go to the law that regulates the construction of highways. However, I would suggest that because this is a matter of deciding on a law which has a two-thirds majority, when the opinion of the secretariat is clear, they should break that point and decide on it. Is that okay? Okay. Then we will now break this agenda item and move on to the 19th item of the agenda.I will only give you half a minute's rest so that we can prepare ourselves with the materials to come to the cabinet hall. The Secretariat will have half an hour to establish compliance or non-compliance in the text of the Rules of Procedure. Once in a position, the National Assembly will end the 19th point and go to point 27 and complete the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure. So I will wait a minute for the government to come to the hall or its representatives. Colleagues and colleagues, we can proceed. Representatives of the government, Mr. Minister is in the National Assembly. We've got material in front of us. I will have to interrupt this conference on my right and ask that it withdraw from the big debate room, because we will continue with the 19th A Point, this is with the proposal of the 2002 Summer Plan for Development and Maintenance of the Autoways. I ask the secretariat and colleagues at the table to withdraw from the large debate room because they are interrupting the work. The material was submitted to the Council by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Mr. Secretary, you want a word. Please, you have the floor. But not everyone else, and I'm asking you for total peace. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u59	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. The government has submitted a proposal for the 2002 Annual Plan for the Development and Maintenance of Motorways for parliamentary consideration and adoption. This proposal of the plan is, of course, based on the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia and the rebalancing of the national programme, on the basis of the law on public roads, on the basis of the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads, the first and this year also amended, then on the basis of the adopted budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2002 and also for this year's law on the implementation of the budget. In doing so, I would like to point out that individual priorities are, of course, the product of formulations in the national programme or amendments to the national programme, which suggests that the priority of construction of individual motorway sections is determined by the course of the fifth and tenth European transport corridor, and on the basis of transport and economic eligibility, transport safety, developmental importance, interconnection and equitable regional development of the motorway network and environmental impacts. The size or resources for this year's highway development and maintenance plan are as follows: [[they are, of course, visible from the material submitted]] a gas toll of 33.5 billion tolars, equivalent to the sum of this year's already adopted budget of the Republic of Slovenia; further tolls and rents of 23 billion tolars; the remaining are loans from international financial institutions, domestic financial institutions and other resources, which are also mentioned in this paper. This year, we plan to put 15.6km of motorways on the market, we intend to continue construction about 80km in length, and on some sections we intend to start construction. In more detail, I would say that we intend to place on the market this year, towards the end of June this year, the section of Krtina-Lukovica, or to the toll station of the Compola, further connection of the Razdro and the section of Vransko-Trojana, i.e. the relation of Vransko-Blagovica. On the Vransko-Trojana section we have written in this September 2002 plan. Such are also implementing contracts and all documents in force. However, both Dars and the ministry and everyone involved in this process are working to see this section completed by the end of June of this year or by the beginning of the tourist season. In this section, where we describe the completed sections, there is not one section, which is listed on the sections where construction continues in 2002, this is the connecting road Murska Sobota to the motorway on the section Vučja vas-Beltinci, and from this connection of the Vučja vas-Beltinci to the Beltinci. So this binding road, which also serves as a highway, as the compulsory road of Murska Sobota, will also be completed this year. Several sections that I would not mention here because we have a detailed description of, there are several sections where construction will continue in all four directions this year, with the greatest intensity in the area of Trojans, in the area of Primorska and some sections in the area of Dolenjska, Gorenjska and Prekmurje, as I have mentioned earlier. We also anticipate the start of construction works at the Lopata connection and at the section Lukovica or toll station Kompolje - Blagovica. If I can get to the bottom of this, it's only to the financial side. The total implementation, or proposal for this year's plan, of the financial plan is 86 billion. Of course, part of this is for construction, remaining for other costs, preparation and so on and other construction costs. It is true, however, that this number was around 170 billion in the national programme or in the national programme's balance, which, of course, represents only about 51%. These are the main points of this plan. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment has considered this plan in detail. Some individual proposers have also proposed individual amendments. The Committee has also identified itself and it is likely that there will be more opportunities to speak about this in the course of the adoption of this plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for an annual plan was addressed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee, which is the competent working body. My colleague Weber is the rapporteur. You have the floor, colleague Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. The Committee considered the proposal for the 2002 Annual Plan for the Development and Maintenance of Motorways at its 25th session, on 26 and 28.3. and also took note of the report on the implementation of the funds for the purpose of the construction of State roads set out in the national programme, the opinion of the Commission on Local Self-Government and Regional Development and the oral opinion and subsequently adopted the written opinion of the Secretariat of the National Council for Law and Legal Affairs. In the opening presentation, the government, or Mr. Minister, presented this programme. We note that the projected realisation is 86.9 billion, representing 51% of the planned funding after the national programme's rebalancing. We also took note of the project documentation for new sections, construction and completion of sections in 2002 and the beginning of the construction on the two sections provided for in this programme for 2002. At the same time, the Minister also explained that, depending on the initial situation or the prevailing situation, in preparation for the amendment of the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, which is to take place by the end of the first half of this year. He also reviewed the secretariat of the National Council for Law and Legal Affairs. In addition to some editorial corrections, he also pointed out that it was not possible to include a summary of the 2003 programme in the 2002 programme. Members and Members also later drew attention to the derogations from the national programme for the construction of motorways, which showed a two- to five-year backlog in individual sections. They also drew attention to the fact that the National Assembly has on several occasions adopted a decision on the preparation of a new amendment to the national highway construction programme and that they are extremely concerned that the individual sections already defined in the national programme do not follow this programme or are being modified or even withdrawn. I would only point out that this is, however, the competence of the National Assembly, which, of course, adopts the national programme and, of course, the annual programmes. Tolls also represented an important area in this treatment. The discussion stressed that it is necessary to discuss how to collect tolls by paying each user according to the actual use of motorways. In addition, Members and Members of Parliament have, of course, pointed out the fact that the motorway cross itself represents a remarkable progress in the development of Slovenia, but we must not forget, of course, the areas which relate to other state roads to this motorway network, in particular, the problem of Northern Primorska, White Krajina, Kočevska and Koroška. The Government or the representative of the applicant also re-examined all these comments and also announced that a study or study of the toll system would be carried out on motorways, which the Committee would consider in a short time. At the end of the discussion, the Committee also drafted amendments attached to the material. He also defined himself to the amendments tabled by Member Joseph Jerovšek and Alojz Sok. This amendment was not supported by the committee. He also did not support the amendment of Ambassador Majda Zupan, i.e. two amendments, and the amendment of the DeSus Group of Members. It is also not supported by the amendment of Ambassador Zalokar Orzam Committee. The Committee agreed that the Committee of the National Infrastructure and Environment Assembly should propose to the National Assembly that the proposal for an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2002 should be considered and, pursuant to Article 24 of the Law on Public Roads and Article 172 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, adopted by a decree on the annual plan together with the amendments of the Committee. In addition, he adopted two additional decisions: The National Assembly notes that the 2002 Annual Plan for the Development and Maintenance of Motorways significantly deviates from the revision of the National Programme for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, and therefore proposes that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia prepare and submit a new amendment to the National Convention for the Construction of Motorways in the Republic of Slovenia by the end of June 2002. Second additional decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare and submit for consideration a decree on the annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2003 until October 2002. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Secretariat, you want a word? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would only like to draw attention to contents of the IX. Chapters of the proposal for a 2002 motorway development and maintenance plan. This chapter refers to the draft 2003 development plan. Subject to the provisions of the Law on Public Roads, our assessment of this content does not fall within the scope of this Act. That is why we believe, as has already been pointed out at the meeting of the parent working body and also in our written opinion, that it shows this content to be abandoned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thanks for the heads-up. I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. They want to. Let's go first. New Slovenia's Group, then the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members, DeSUS Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you very much. I would like the truth about the construction of the highway in Slovenia to come on a day so that when people are monitoring it, they will know what it is. Last night, it was said on TV that too much money was collected from the gas toll to build highways and tolls, and so on, but they did not say why. But if you take the Plaza of Economy magazine, I got it on the table today, there's a nice article written in there, and I'll read it to you: "One of the main reasons for stopping construction is according to the secretary of the Construction Association, the construction material industry in the Chamber of Economics Boruta Gržinič, the lack of money from the petrol tolar, with which the government is moping the budget holes. In previous years, this share was not high, it was too early last year, and last year half of the gas money for motorways went for other purposes. This will not be fixed by a greater increase in 2002 and 2003, in relation to other budgetary expenditure " and so on. [[...]] I have asked this question so many times, and to the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Transport, and to others, and I have never received an answer in any way, all kind of confused that we have an integral budget, and we have these resources, and we have these resources, and I don't know what else. If the money was dedicated money, even if it were called money, stayed inside, the highway cross would be at the site now in all years. Tomene doesn't have to be convinced that's not true. And no extra credit. And I'm going to say it again, like, when I talk so much about ribs. The money that Italy gave as a favourable loan, if it were to be used at that time, would have made half of the Rebruns with that money. Not a quarter today. So he's bad at mastering money. You can also tell me that I'm a "local patriot" because I'm rooting for the ribs. But I think it was a Slovenian interest to use this favourable loan. They told me last time on the board that this money didn't go down. Of course it's not going down. It's not going down. It's not going down. But there are miles of highways that could be made with that money. I don't know about all this; why do we blind ourselves, why do we deceive ourselves, and avoid all truths, and so on. [[...]] I hope that this will also come out to the public, in any way that people know what they are doing in this country with a gas toll, by building highways. This, however, is only one segment of our policy and our economy. In fact, only Slovenia is completely like this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Comrade Mamić. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Group, colleague Jelinčič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u67	Halla beautiful, Mr. President. The fact is that Slovenia needs a new proposal for an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2002. The fact is, a lot of what was planned wasn't done. The fact is that, to a large extent, controls are not carried out where they should be carried out or control is extremely lacking. The fact is, Dars and DDC are working largely on their own, out of control and whatever suits anyone. A while ago, the Slovenian National Party launched a debate on road construction in the Republic of Slovenia. At that time, we asked a number of questions that we did not get answers to. Then we told a whole series of facts that no one denied, but the government kind of pulled back and thought, "Well, what can they really do for us? We are so strong that we can do whatever we want and we are so strong that, if necessary, we will also silence them, the Slovenian National Party." However, it is not possible to hide the fact that control is not a problem of redemption, that the problem is projects that are not being done. The only thing consistent with this work is worshiping the Italians, to the greatest extent by the company Graseto, which has already demonstrated its incompetence, which has already proved that it can't do bad work, that it can't manage it, and that the only place where it controls the situation is in throwing the Slovenian builders of its pool, just as it happened to RGD. The fact is, no one controls the Italians. It is also true that their construction does not go according to the plans they have submitted. The fact is, the Italians are complaining over and over and over again to both companies, both Dars and DDC, they are at their side. As if Dars and DDC were an Italian company, not a Slovenian, state, public organisation. One wonders what's in the back. After all, if nothing else, an endless race was launched a while ago to replace a disk with a computer. What's wrong with this thing now? Nothing. And those who pursued this pursuit on a large scale did not answer, nor did they prove that any of it was true. And what's worse, no one will seem to answer for it, because some gentlemen who are willing to bow to strangers seem to be allowed just about anything. Perhaps some, like themselves, are also now paying future electoral and pre-election campaigns from this money, from small money, now not lire, but euros that someone might get in their pocket. Construction of roads is extremely important. It is also important to control the construction of roads. Also important is a gas tolar, which disappears to a large extent unknown to where. Nobody tries to find out where it's going. The government simply decides to spend money on the construction of highways, for example, to buy a new aircraft, or to buy a new Mercedes. After all, someone could say this, because it all falls within the framework of the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Now we can still expect someone to come up with a house for a dog chained with gold or something. From the same source. Strange things are happening in Slovenia as far as money is concerned. Money goes missing, it's not used on purpose, and no one's responsible for it. The fact that, despite attempts to hide data on the economic situation, this is actually worse every day. The fact is, inflation has skyrocketed. They also bear the blame in a small part, but also to a certain extent, Dars and DDC. If nothing else, due to non-execution of controls due to unspent purchases, the land is becoming more expensive and more expensive due to unspent purchases that should be made at a certain time. The projects aren't done, they're partly done, they're paid, they're overpaid, and I don't know what else. The management of money in these companies also shows that they have an empty building in Celje, but they pay dearly rent here in Ljubljana, because they lord themselves with service cars and do not know what ratings, they do not like to drive from Ljubljana to Celje, but they prefer to drive home, until nine, ten, eleven, or come a little early, and then they go to golf and so on. I think that, once again, I stress the need to build roads and to build them, but not just to start, if possible with the work of some foreigners, who must then be repaired by Slovenian builders and after them to "flick" what they have not done. DARS has long-term contracts with organisations, with so-called engineers. Has anyone read these contracts and found out whether they still hold these contracts? Do these contracts bind someone or are they just papers on which some serve well on this side and on that side? That would have to be done, too. I repeat what the Slovenian national party has asked for in the debate on the questions sent. When will control take place? When will those who spend taxpayers’ money be punished as it seems, but not as the law says? I'm not talking about honor. They mostly don't have one. That'd be the end of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Mr Kebrich will present the position of the DeSUS Group. You have the floor, Comrade Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary and your colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. In our group of Members, we have thoroughly grasped these substances. We've come to surprising conclusions, great disappointments. Let me begin by saying that this programme, which we are now adopting, I hope that we will accept it as soon as possible, I will also say why, it means essential what we must have in front of our eyes. I'll read it for those of you who haven't studied it in such detail. Look, it's the next one. The problem in our broadcasting system is the following. It is necessary to have a decision on the investment decision. This is possible if we have an investment programme, but it has to be in the annual programme. And that's a vicious circle. Procedures for the start of the implementation of the annual supplement, the plan takes rivers and writes at least six, as well as up to eight or more months. Thus, in the best possible case, works on the ground may not start according to this plan until December or January and beyond. Again, this is not possible because we do not have this plan in the coming year. This is said to be the case if we guarantee this year's funds, as has been submitted, that they will not be used at the end of the year. And now, under the nickname, Mr Minister, I'm telling you, there's going to be someone redirecting this money to where it fits. It's a hard word to say, so I'll put it under the line. Then who's the one who pulls these threads at home in Styrian, we say he mixes the prongs. The main problem is this: Look, with this program ahead of us, we're changing three things. Firstly, we do not follow the national programme in the order set out there. Secondly, we are delaying our hands, on schedule, which is not entirely justified because we claim in our parliamentary group, based on the data we have provided that we have enough building capacity to do more than we planned. The third problem is the financial problem. I'm not going to talk about this in particular, because both the pronouns have already warned us about this. But I think there's more money to be gained. We have lovingly found that even a few more resources are foreseen in this plan this year than they have been in recent years. Now I'm going to help you with the data, and if anyone's interested, we're going to give them photos of how the priority changes, where the weight moves, or, I'm going to tell you what the priority is for this year and next year. We have an overview that this year is being given to the area of Styria and Prekmurje - where one hundred and fifty billion is lagging behind according to the national programme, this year is only seven billion one hundred and twenty-two in 2002, representing 4.8% of this. For Goreńska, which has a backlog of 27.2 billion from the national programme, 3 billion two hundred twenty or 11.8% is given this year. Dolenjska, with a backlog of 58.3 billion, is given 7 billion four hundred and twenty-six percent or 12.7%. At Primorsko, which has a very large backlog from the national programme, 115.7 billion, is given 9 billion three hundred five or eight percent. Indeed, it is, and we all support, that for the Trojans behind 52.3 billion this year, 26 billion, one hundred and four million, 49.9%. I will not list for 2003, which is already foreseen in this material, and the picture is not substantially saved. Now let's ask ourselves, if money is actually diverting to motorways and the sum of money at the disposal of bypasses is shrinking, I will tell you, but don't read me "the location of patriotism" that in Maribor it takes a few hundred million or a billion tolars to complete at least one Western bypass. Why? I have nothing against Ljubljanans, at least against them, but I have a point against Ljubljana. They have now been built or were constructed, and now the bypasses for other areas, as well as for Prague, etc., are no longer a priority. These things are for us Members, if we look at the whole - because we are responsible for the whole country, so to speak, that we have them in mind, and we cannot bow simply to one direction or one lobby as such. Look, in the programme that was given here, we've created the whole situation for 2002 and I repeat, as has been said, I'm saying round number, sixty-seven billion this year is predicted how these billions are distributed. On the other hand, we have been talking for three years now, I can prove to you the first paragraph, written by the Ministry and Dars, saying exactly what they will give: in 2002 and 2003 there will be the preparation of project documentation and other documentation for the motorway section of the national programme, for which no regulation on the location plans has yet been adopted. Let us ask Members if there is anything in our pants to give us exactly what year of documentation. Whether these design organisations will receive payments for their project documentation as long as this motorway programme lasts, without a deadline each year. It is true that the calls for proposals set out this and also the sum, but tell me who controls what has been done. We, if you'll excuse me, so to speak, the thirsty lead over the water only with such a general clause of the first paragraph, we will give so much for this project documentation. Since we have also tabled amendments, I will not now embark on a national programme, which is essential for us to get it to Parliament as soon as possible after such or a different proposal for a rebalancing. But I'll finish with the next one. As I told you in the introduction, and the Committee has now accepted that if we are to adopt a state budget for two years, then we must make such decisions for the highway programme equally for two years, so that what I initially said is that at the end of the year it is "machined" under the terms, with those means, because they could not be used. If we do not accept this today or the fastest, it is likely that it will not be possible to use the funds at all this year. For the second year, nothing will happen again, because if we do not adopt it in time, the Infrastructure Committee has also adopted this decision to recommend to the government that they come with a 2003 plan in October, that we accept it in time, that it is possible to sign the works and that it will be possible to complete the work after those calls. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Weber will present the views of the ZLSD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you for your word. The 2002 Annual Plan for the Development and Maintenance of Motorways would, of course, also be much better and better in the view of the United Social Democrats Group if, of course, it could fully follow the national programme for the construction of motorways. However, we note that the very beginning of the construction of motorways was somehow lacking documentation or we did not have enough clear starting points in the construction of motorways at that time, but, of course, from the rebalancing to the rebalancing, we are getting closer to those real pictures or, above all, the need to provide financial resources so that this largest national programme can be completed for all of us within an acceptable time frame. Of course, it is a very important programme, because the construction of motorways certainly brings Slovenia closer together and includes us in the most important international traffic flows, which is one of the key objectives in the construction of the highway network. The fact that it is late is probably also a reflection of Slovenia's diversity, of course, serving many times also with large strangers in the space with which the operators of this national programme must have met. However, with the fact that we are talking in 2002 about the most demanding sections in progress, we expect that there will be no more or should not be any more problems in this implementation of the national programme in the future. The current situation in 2002 is particularly concerned by the fact that a total of 51 per cent of the planned resources have been provided, compared with the changes and additions to the national highway construction programme, which means that there will be enormous difficulties in the 2003 programme, or before that, in the preparation of a new rebalancing of the national highway construction programme. It will be extremely difficult to replace the gap in resources so far and, of course, to provide funds that would further accelerate the construction of motorways. That is why we see the solution in trying to work as hard as possible on the most high-quality financial resources, which are certainly represented by both the toll and the toll system itself. What can best be done in the 2002 programme is certainly that activity is being driven to prepare for the construction of additional toll stations in the context of optimisation of the current toll system. This will, of course, provide for higher flows of tolls over the coming years, allowing, of course, adequate maintenance and management of motorways in addition to the repayment of credits. That this is an important question is, of course, evident from the information we can read in this programme, since on 31.12.2001 Dars has 445 km of roads in management and maintenance and the toll is collected at only 270 km. This is certainly an area that deserves very much attention, and this part, as I have already said, is being assessed in the parliamentary group as one of the most qualitative developments in the previous annual programmes, when it has actually tried to follow the implementation of the national highway programme. The development and maintenance plan for 2002 will, of course, be supported, in particular by this desire to be adopted as soon as possible, allowing the government and Dars to deepen in the preparation of the rebalancing, the new rebalancing of the national programme, and, of course, the programme itself for 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Colleague Malovre, Slovenian People's Party Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that it is difficult for such quality speakers to sum up the word, but I would also like to give a position of our parliamentary group, which supports the decree on the 2002 Annual Plan for the Development and Maintenance of Motorways, in order to make it available as soon as possible for 2003 in order to be on a realistic basis. Here in Parliament we have to point out with our finger, not to the Transport Ministry or to Dars, because in this Parliament we are adopting a so-national programme, but not only a programme for the construction of motorways, but also other programmes, for example, for the railway infrastructure that we have been repairing since 1992, but I must say that we are holding on to only 15% or even less so that we can be happy to stick to the motorway programme as much as we are holding on to it, because we are adding it continuously, year after year, every year new sections, new bonds, new demands and this here from these benches. Here it is necessary to say that only 51% of the funds provided are from the petrol tolar, which is also used for other purposes, especially for the maintenance of the main roads and other roads, to collect as little money or not as much money as was expected from the toll, and also, given that the main roads have been in the past and are still overloaded and that, in some sections of the toll is not collected, they wanted to redirect traffic to the highway part and, of course, the budgetary resources approved by Parliament are not being followed by the national programme. Nor does the law favor every situation or performer, but let us remember the construction of roads or the demolition of that house on the Ljubljana bypass, which for several years has hindered the opening of this section. We here in Parliament should remain loyal to the planned policy of building highways, and then we could point the finger at operators. Once again, all I can say is that on one side we have too much fragmentation of this gas tolar, and on the other hand, we add too many extra sections to the various rebalances. As I said before, we should get on the table as soon as possible this so-called 2003 construction rebalancing as decided by the Committee, this is by the end of October, and of course support what is being done this year. This is certainly what the drafters of this decree have foreseen that what can be done in this decree for this year will also be done, and that is why our Group supports the decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Hungarian National Community will be presented by Mrs Maria Pozsonec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u75	Your Honor! The Minister's report shows that the highway will only reach the Belts. I would like to know when it is time for the motorway to reach the Slovenian Hungarian border. In my opinion, we should be in the right direction of the east - west. We are very concerned that the 5th corridor in due course will not reach the Pinke - Tornyiszentmikloš. I would also point out that this, not only pushes Pomurje into even greater indevelopment, does not interest anyone too much and does not upset anyone too much, but it also reduces the role of the port of Cyprus. I would also point out that on April 4th, i.e. in the morning, they will lay the foundation stone for the highway off the border and will also start building this year. So the highway will stay on the borderline in the air. And the fact that it's been heard that traffic has been declining in Pomour lately, which, according to the border authorities, is not being maintained. And if so, I also think that more coherent regional development is a valid reason for the motorway to come to Pomurje as soon as possible. What will be the magic anniversary that brings the highway to Pomurje and will it be a highway or just a fast road, as is spoken now? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Dorian Marshič made a written statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. The fact is that the predecessors have already said that it is virtually very difficult to deal without a certain degree of criticism with a document relating to the implementation of the national programme, given the fact that it has been repeatedly mentioned that we do not adhere to the national programme for the reasons already mentioned. Accordingly, of course, the comments that fly many times are very localistically coloured, either at the end of Styria, at the sea end, at the bottom and so on, not to mention. For us, of course, it is very important, I speak for the people of Slovenian Istria, that the construction of the highway cross continues, and this is very accelerated, to Kopra. Work has begun and, of course, this is commendable, despite the delays. However, it is of course a worrying fact regarding the information relating to the continuation of this highway ending which will have to be done, I will say that I will logically continue to do so in the four next sections in particular. In particular, we link Luke Koper to Sermin, Sermin - Škofije, Koper - Izola and Jagodje - Lucija. The fact is that these sections are already late in their preparatory procedures. We, at least the Members of the Slovenian Istria, have repeatedly asked what is happening here and have obtained many similar or similar answers, where it is not going. It is clear to all that the successful and timely preparation of the documentation is possible only with the cooperation of the competent ministries. Here, the fact is, there is no dispute and, of course, all the participants, I am thinking here also of the local community and all the interested ones, but in particular of the proper conduct of the procedure. I know that Dars is also aware, he also wrote this in his information on the state of preparation of the location plans for the so-called coastal road. A wider study was prepared. However, the delays that have occurred - Dars notes as the main ones: in particular delays in obtaining guidance and the conditions of the competent ministries, additional demands of local communities, individual ministries for the production of new variants, delays in the production of studies, delays in the provision of professional bases, delays in the design of designers, delays in the issuance of conditions, delays in decision-making at individual stages of the procedure. The fact that the Ministry of Transport, the wider studies and its results were not verified from May 1999 to February 2000 was also significant. This is why the Ministry of Environment and Space could not continue the validation procedure. Why did I read that? Since, following the national programme's rebalancing, the location plan regulation should be for at least three sections, linking Luke Koper to the highway network and the Koper-Isol Fast Road and the Jagodje-Lucija Fast Road - they should be adopted by February 2000. The details are very detailed as to why they could not be done, why they could not be done. I have already counted one of these before, especially how many delays, which it is already clear that there is no way to make up for them. And, of course, there is also a new timetable, a new plan. This was to be adopted in 2003. However, it is very difficult for me here, as for everyone, in the fact that I have read this annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2002 and 2003 - I find this date hard to believe. And the assessment of our committee, which we have locally organised in the Municipality of Koper, which closely monitors the construction of motorways and railways to our area, is, I will say, fairly indiscreetly assessed that, despite all the promises and wishes, we will probably not be able to discuss the completion of this section of the motorway by 2010. I will not specify what this means for us Already the traffic measurements for that end say that the section of the Bertosian pad to Kopra, from Sermina to Kopra, should be practically six-lane according to all standards and standards; that practically very difficult, especially in the tourist peaks, ensures the flow of traffic. That I won't lose my word about Luke Koper and the connection, because we all know about it. And finally, let me put it this way: I find it hard to believe. Why? Because you write everywhere - and, gentlemen, please, let it be deleted from your computer and not always copy the same text - that perhaps 2002 will apply if the following conditions are provided. It states, in particular: proper and effective management of the preparation and adoption of the site plan, compliance with the statutory deadlines for each stage of the procedure, timely development of the professional basis and the location plan, and timely decision-making on the key stages of the procedure. You wrote that for all the sections. That's perfectly clear to me. It all depends on it. The problem is that there is too little effort and too little desire to do so. And many times we have the feeling that this is simply not done, that many times this is really a prestigious – sometimes also a prestigious misunderstanding and misunderstanding between the individual departments, between the two ministries, between the Department for the Protection of Natural and Cultural Heritage and so on and that, of course, projects are delayed. I find it hard to believe that what's in here will be true. I'm going to finish up, and I'm going to end up with another sceptic. For it is that, for example, the department of Škofija-Sermin has already been practically-thinking that the fourth or fifth year - appears as an item, which of course is good when you look inside the document; but then you find that it is only about buying land. I know a lot of this has happened in recent years. Now I don't know if it's going so slowly, whether it's really going so slowly, or if someone here doesn't want to take these procedures. And it is also very impractical, because the amount that is written here also applies to other sections and it is virtually not clear: in what amount, for which section, and especially until when, this will be done. So this section appears inside a few years ago, it appears in 2002, it also appears in 2003. Which is quite clear to me: without the purchase of land, without this procedure, there will be no continuation - no beginning, no beginning of construction. That's it. Thank you. I don't want to be so critical in this part. I told you at the beginning that there's a lot going on, that there's a lot going on. However, these arteries, which are particularly vital for us, for purely practical reasons and ultimately also because - as I mentioned earlier - of the flow of traffic going in this direction: Italy, Italy-Croatia, is without real effort, all the interested ones listed here, will probably be more real than all those planned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek will also hold an unrestricted debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. This proposal for an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways is the standard point of this national assembly. However, in the six years of adoption of this annual plan, after six years, I can state on a scale that this point is the most damaging to the reputation of the National Assembly, although the National Assembly is not to blame for all the deception of the Slovenian public through this point. Mr Marsič indicated four or five years of citing the same item, the same sentences in the Darsa work programme and the Society for State Roads. However, he did not list the oldest items in these programs. Since 1994, there have been things that have not yet been realized, where miracles of money have already turned, and no one has answered. But since Mr Marsic started this, and because he also mentioned one segment, I think that from the report of the Supervisory Council, which we also quoted last year, I must say, ladies from the Ministry and from the Government - more responsible to the government - that for such a thing, such a failure of the National Assembly, Parliament in Great Britain, where we were together in a delegation with Mr Marsh, where we heard Mr Blair's statements before Parliament. At the moment, Minister Blair promised that the Minister would fly - unfortunately, so. I very much appreciate Mr President as a man, but the fact that it is also heard from the circles of his party that he does not decide on anything is not appropriate for a government. That in the quota charged to one party, which was filled with a quota from that party in secretarial posts, those secretaries listen to instructions from entirely other political lobbying. It's a disgrace to our government. And, dear colleagues, I don't know how many times this has been said. Last year too - Mr. Anderlich - 'You will no longer lead me thirsty over water. However, Mr Anderlič has clearly achieved his interests in this year's plan, has fulfilled it, has not participated in this debate at all today. Anaemicly, of course, it all works out. I have to say that I have heard, in fact, how to decide who had the greatest influence on the Ministry this year. In fact, this proposal for an annual plan is a reflection of this. I think it would actually be a time to have a realistic plan for every year and to have an account. Every year there are many, increasing experiences in the construction of highways and road programs. The deviations should always be smaller, but they're going in the opposite direction. Derogations in realisation, this is said in kilometers and square meters of asphalt, and financial deviations are increasing. As an engineer, I know that on the basis of such experience that the estimates should be at least 10 per cent, now after these years. There's no excuse, no excuse, and there can't be! But the deviations go, the scissors just get bigger, they open. I'm asking you, those responsible, how can you defend this? At the same time, I think it is a national shame that, for example, for the road of Slovenska Bistrica - Ptuj, for the railway of Prague and also for part of another part, the leased loan and the realisation of the loan in 1994 - I have before me - and that, in 1998, these funds were earmarked, from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, they were diverted to the overlay of 178 km of main roads. I have before me that at the time I warned that this is a matter of politics: 'work and rule', 'divide et impera' This magic formula you use every year more strongly. However, this magical formula was a failure of the Roman Empire. And we're getting close to Argentina, even through this program. You're taking us to bankruptcy. And look, in 1998, these funds, as I said, were passed by this law. I have to find out.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u80	Can I just say one procedural thing in the middle of your speech, Comrade Jerovšek? After you perform, we'll move on to a decision on the harmonisation amendments. Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u81	In general, the representative of the Ministry of Finance replied to me that this was not a threat in the following year, that is to say in 1999, the section of the Slovenian Bistrica-Ptuj at the distance of the Pragersko Oblast. Construction of this section - in 1999. Then a few years each year we had this item, as Mr Marsič put it, for the section of Klanec-Sermin, also in last year's programme: Pragersko Oblast, 6.5 km, a tributary. I think it's humiliating. However, if you do not feel that you are not able or willing to work under a national programme in these services, then you are humiliating this national assembly, which makes decisions for you and covers them. But you also humiliate every taxpayer in this country. And this year's policy of "work and rule" has been further refined. I heard you set up a perimeter in Maribor with this railing of Prague. This is an unworthy state service. The case for which the funds were granted was a national programme in 1994; eight years of excuses for the operation of the lobbies that carried this money elsewhere, at that time, a lot of such money was lost, but this is only one case. And I don't accept any reason, you can't make up new and new excuses, you can't take the national program there, you can't do the rebalancing yourself, you can't bring it here or you can't bring it here. There are huge examples. And I want an answer today when will the physical construction of the Pragersko Oblast begin, but not those excuses that are listed here. You owe it to this country. However, this is the most important vein against Hungary. Are you in the service of this economy in this country? Will we stand there 20 hours before the prisons and cause enormous economic damage? But this department didn't come into the national program because I don't know who! The so-called national interests, authentic national interests, were decided here. And who can ignore authentic national interests? I think after six years of listening to and reading such arguments, one has to be honest. This has even been found by members of the ruling coalition - which I politically understand - who are obliged to defend the government, and to literally protect all its actions. However, these things, which we point out from year to year, are too severe. And I would also ask, years ago, a colleague of Iva Hvalic, regarding an engineer, ran into a very high number. It is known to be an internationally recognised price of 1.5%. In 2002, this cost represents 2.6%. At the same time, I must say that the road of Krtina-Ljubljana was built catastrophically, that there was obviously no control here. At 120km you swim, you fly in the air, but that's every mile separately. She's extremely weak. Road: Maribor-Vransko is in a much better condition, with regard to the structure and all this. Thus, construction was not controlled, which means that if the funds were not controlled, the funds were used in a transparent manner. I don't have to ask myself loudly how many business spaces, how many weekends, how many of these funds have been made. That's what the actual situation suggests. And once again, gentlemen, personally or this National Assembly is interested in and we demand: a precise allocation of funds and precise miles. The deviation can't be more than 10% after so much experience. What will be built and whether you will answer politically in the coming year. I wish I could discuss what I've discussed for years and get another excuse every year to end with excuses. I say, because of this colleague: this is the oldest section of the national programme. To symbolically return it to the programme this year, even if it does not begin, it must be quoted in taxi. He was in last year's. And this illegal change in the national programme is illegal, illegal activity in a democratic state is not only unwelcome, it is illegal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u82	Thank you very much. As I announced during your performance, Comrade Jerovšek, for which I thank you, we will now interrupt the 19th item and invite all colleagues and colleagues to come to the Chamber because we will continue the decision on the 27th item of the agenda, this is in the third reading of the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. You received the amendments on the bench, including the opinion of the secretariat. Mr Anderlič, as the proposer, submitted the harmonisation amendment. I'll wait for my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. Once again, I am obliged to do so in the light of a decision that requires a two-thirds majority to decide on it. I'm asking everyone to come to the hall. I still have to wait for the proposer. We still have to wait for the proposer, Comrade Anderlich. Yes, he is the proposer, so it seems to us that we do so whenever it comes to such decisions, because he must finally explain the proposal. I can't give another word to explain the proposal. So we'll move on to Continuation 27. It's the day's work. On the basis of the Secretariat's conclusion on legislation and legal matters that, due to the amendments adopted, there has been a breach of the rules of procedure, the drafter, Mr Anderlič, has tabled the harmonisation amendments. You got the opinion from the secretariat on the bench. Would you like a representative of the motions? I guess not. Would you like a representative of the Rules of Procedure Commission? [[No, no, ……]] A representative of the government? [[No, no, ……]] The content of the amendments cannot be discussed. We will move on to their vote. You have before you the order numbers from 1 to 4 suggestions. It may be understood as proposals under 1 and 2 together and 3 and 4 together. This is how we will vote. So, first of all, I'm going to put to the vote the harmonisation amendment number one and two. First, I'm going to put the harmonisation amendments under 1 and 2. We're voting. Excuse me? I'm calling off the vote. Explanation of vote
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u83	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of Members, I request a 15-minute recess before the decision is taken.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u84	I'm taking a 10-minute break for the consultation. At 5:08 p.m., proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u85	I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall! We will also wait for representatives of the opposition, but I would ask them to come to the Chamber - two parliamentary groups and colleague Jelinčič. I invite my colleagues to come to the hall. Can we continue to make decisions? We can proceed. I would like to say that, in view of strictly disciplined, the basis for the rules of procedure for ordering a recess while the vote began, I did not have, and I have to find out, because I do not want this to become a practice. That is why I quickly decided on this because it was a proposal from the proposer and a decision on the two-thirds majority. We will now determine the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. 75 present, so the National Assembly is adjourned and can decide. We will now decide on the amendments under order number 1 and 2. Let's vote! Let's vote on the amendments under 1 and 2. 77 present. 69 for, 5 for. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I'm guessing we've accepted the first two amendments. Now we still have to decide on the amendments under order numbers 3 and 4. Let's vote! 74 in attendance, 67 in, 4 in. [[The vote was 67.]] [[Against four.]] I take it that we have accepted the harmonisation amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the draft Rules of Procedure as a whole. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u86	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Before we vote on the draft Rules of Procedure as a whole, I would like to say the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u87	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u88	As I have done many times, and I say again that we will not fully support the Rules of Procedure. We understand that the position belongs to the authorities. Well, that's quite clear to us. The position must be clear, however, that the opposition is the one who belongs to it in Parliament to alert the position to mistakes. So what you want to achieve under the guise of rationality is to limit the opposition in this House to a minimum. So you're going to take away any possibility that we might even be able to alert you to your mistakes. And since we do not have the media on our side, but primarily against the opposition, it is certainly impossible for the opposition to perform its function. Impossible, because if you can't draw attention to mistakes through the media, if you can't talk about mistakes in Parliament, then it's impossible for the opposition to do their job.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u89	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u90	We are very sorry that some Members, too, would say that the young parties here in the National Assembly do not understand that they are satisfied with such a function of the College, where the College will decide everything, and then one fifth of Members will be able to communicate their disagreement in writing. What will help us, too, when the college limits the debate to two hours - we will require four hours and Parliament will vote then for two hours, what the College has decided. Well, that's no gain. Indeed, this College will become some kind of precedent, where only two of you will decide, and we certainly cannot support and vote against such decisions and rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Comrade Kangler, you're with my colleague Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I want to explain my voice. I will vote against the adoption of the Rules of Procedure. I'm going to try to justify this briefly. At the last vote, however, I was not involved when we voted on the Rules of Procedure, which was not adopted, but at the time I had some concerns and I also told the public. Today I have the same concerns again, although some here are funny, and I am very concerned that this Rules of Procedure take on the authority of the President of the National Assembly. On several occasions, I have enjoyed listening to the Colleges of the President of the National Assembly, hearing individuals who in one way or another have been arrogant toward the President or any other member. Today, with this rule of procedure, we give too much weight to the College of Presidents, following the constitution of the National Assembly, the President of the National Assembly. If this Rules of Procedure are adopted today, we will get it, it will be funny to hear, the Emperor of the National Assembly. Who will then lead the national assembly? President of the National Assembly or so-called Emperor? Take him, give him time, and you'll be able to see for yourself. I won't let that happen with my voice. If most people will accept it, I will respect it, just like everyone else. I would like to stress once again that the President of the National Assembly is given authority, but it is clear why, regardless of which party the President of the National Assembly is sitting on his throne, there is too much weight to give to the President of the National Assembly. That's why I won't vote in favour of this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Comrade Barovich, behind you, Comrade Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you, Mr. President. Bogdan Barovic, Member of the Slovenian National Party, I am convinced that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure in certain articles violates the democracy acquired, that it is contrary to the first paragraph of Article 82 of the Constitution and that it restricts Members at a time when they can define their content and limits them in the right to decide. I therefore oppose the Rules of Procedure and will vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u95	My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. I will personally vote against the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure. That is why - because I believe that the existing Rules of Procedure are purely good, very good, but the existing Coalition has not been able to implement - and also a new one - it will probably not be able - also because the existing Rules of Procedure have repeatedly violated the coalition unnecessarily, because it simply did not interpret positively the existing Rules of Procedure, but always, when necessary, negatively. That is why, of course, he could not be effective. I will also oppose this because, according to my assessment of practice, this existing Rules of Procedure cannot be implemented consistently. I have already said that we may not even have the basic conditions to implement it. In this organisation of the national assembly, working bodies, professional assistance and so on, we are unable to carry out such work in the working bodies. If this happens during this transitional period, that you will train the management of the working bodies, that they will be able to lead the process through the new system, then it will be a little easier, but I still doubt that you will succeed. I think that the implementation of this Rules of Procedure will be extremely difficult. I will also take the third time against this because I believe that, as an opposition Member, this new Rules of Procedure will make normal work somewhat impossible in accordance with constitutional rights. I will also oppose because I think that the purpose of the proposal is, as it has already been said, that this rule of procedure, which will not be implemented in practice, as I understand it, is incapacitated by the President of the National Assembly. Why, I don't know. But I do not know whether the President of the National Assembly will have these functions, coordination and so on, to whom I, as a Member of Parliament, will address as my intended one. To Mr. Anderlich or to college - I don't know. I don't mean to do this, of course my work will be extremely distorted and disabled because of this, but I'm afraid that's just the way it is. I also wonder what the President of the National Assembly will do. Will he just be a statistician to someone? I don't know. In short, I think that a lot of things are inconclusive and that even things are contrary to some of the normal norms of the European Parliaments and because of all of these, I think, the negative elements that the new proposal for the Rules of Procedure brings with it will not be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much. My friend Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The fundamental apostolic of true democracy is the protection of the weaker in the normative framework of life in society. This is the fundamental apostolic of true democracy. This National Assembly is not even to blame for the current rules of procedure for such abuse of the Rules of Procedure, which takes place at a time when, on the basis of this Rules of Procedure, we are adopting a new catechism or a birch that we will work on. That is why I say: the Rules of Procedure are not to blame. It is our fault that we must correct ourselves in our heads and respect the true apostolic of democracy. I claim that the system of governance, the system of governance in today's world, is placed in the pyramid. This National Assembly will cut off the pyramid by means of this Rules of Procedure and indirectly affect the system of effectiveness or creativity of this National Assembly without infringing the Rules of Procedure. This is said to be a violation of the Rules of Procedure, a new Rules of Procedure even more so than it was. That is why I remain in my belief in the preliminary hearing, and I will not support this rule of procedure. But I would support a lot of things that need to change in our heads so that we don't understand power as one that needs to paint in democracy someone in some hierarchy that we've survived. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u99	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u100	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Regardless of the osmosis that is happening, regardless of the constructive absences that are taking place, I would like to make it very clear that we are participating in one of the dimensions of centralisation and concentration of power in this country. As a Member, who has been elected four times - so far in all the elections - I would like to say my sincere belief that this Rules of Procedure have gone too far towards Members and Members, that it has been made to the present situation or need and that it is in some sense an amendment to the coalition treaty of the ruling coalition. Given the way in which the Rules of Procedure are handled, it doesn't matter what we accept, because the rules of the game will be set for the opposite, as has been done so far. You can buy a stopwatch, you can buy a sand watch for three minutes, because now three minutes will determine the regime and rhythm of the part of this national council. I would not support such conditions of work and will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Dr. Bernick's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! I have lived a long time, and I am glad that I have experienced this moment, because today we are making history in this Parliament. Some of you already have experience with this history already in the previous regime, maybe you do, but I didn't have it myself, so I would like to point out that it seems to me that we are creating a central committee here that will decide as it used to be. I don't know if this is progress, I wouldn't consider it progress, but if someone has that kind of experience already, it seems to him that it's a good system to keep going, but I'm not going with it, I'm not going to take part in it. That's why I'm gonna vote against it. There's another thing I'd like to say. It was only now that I understood what Slovenian pluralism meant. I understand that pluralism is that we Members are somehow trying to have the interest of the people, people, citizens, taxpayers and that we will cross here when it comes to interests and we know that we can do something together. But that's not pluralism. There's no such pluralism in here. What surprises me is that so rarely, even if our opposition proposal is a good one, except perhaps any technical one we have seen today, none of you is willing to vote in favour of that proposal; while when the opposition sees that there is something really good in your proposals, we are voting, you can go and count on all these things. That's why I think it's pluralism, which is what happens in here, pluralism in Slovenian. Now I understand why we sometimes stress pluralism. I'm afraid if we don't come to the realization that the opposite has only good suggestions from time to time to cross these lines, as is normal in democratic countries around the world. We don't have that. And what surprises me is that there's so much intelligence in this national council, and it's what it used to be. I don't represent this as possible. Okay, we're doing history, and I'm glad I'm here. I am even more pleased to be able to vote against this history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I have two more votes to explain: my colleague Jerovšek, behind you, my colleague Pukšič. And then we'll vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you very much. I want to remain consistent with what I have advocated over the years, and I believe that the present rules of procedure, the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, have crossed the limits of permissible changes in those areas which are important for the level of Slovenian democracy. If this Rules of Procedure are adopted, we will cut down the current maximum in this country and also the constitutional standard of the already acquired minority rights. I am prepared to make constructive compromises. There is no way in politics without compromises. However, on the decent compromises on the table, compromises, which are largely under the table, of course, cannot be accepted. And I also think personally that it will be constitutionally disputed that the 82nd Article of the Slovenian Constitution is likely to be violated, because Members will essentially depend on the guidance of the two most powerful people in this national assembly, especially those in the parliamentary groups. But the Constitution applies, I think, to all Slovenes. I will also not support this Rules of Procedure because of the detail that took place at the time of the previous adoption of the Rules of Procedure and because such a mentality is lacking today in the threat of young Members – young people – that he will not be given a job in this country for 40 years unless he supports the Rules of Procedure. We all know that these things have happened and the call from this city to maintain the degree of democracy, I think that it is the duty of every individual and also a matter of personal pride, personal integrity, and I must also say that I can appreciate it and I will also appreciate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u105	Comrade Pukšič, you are on my list last, and then I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As far as the Rules of Procedure is concerned, however, I consider the act which is subordinate to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. And if such a rule were adopted today, it would, of course, be necessary to amend paragraphs 80 and 82 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The 80th Article of the Constitution states: "The National Assembly shall consist of Members of the citizens of Slovenia and shall count 90 Members." With this Rules of Procedure adopted, we should make a comma here and write, "without voting rights". In Article 82, which states in the first paragraph, "that Members are representatives of all the people and are not bound to any instructions", a comma should be made and the words "except leaders of the groups of Members" should be written. This means, in such a case, of course, for such a rule of procedure as the elected Member of the people I cannot and would be contrary to my conviction and, of course, to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I have never wanted and voted in favour of matters which would be disputed from a constitutional point of view or from a legal point of view. Even this time, of course, I will do the same, because I swear, as a Member of the elected people, still on the Constitution, as it is. Given the fact that many things are already being done on the will of some individuals and the fact that this rules of procedure are taking place in this direction, of course, it is so much more unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Please. You want a word? Comrade Stemberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u108	On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we assess that we are also somehow allowed to have equal cooperation with the new Rules of Procedure in the adoption of legislation, so we see absolutely no reason for the proposal for a new Rules of Procedure after all the amendments and our proposals adopted or otherwise summarized in them, we see no reason to oppose this Rules of Procedure. Members of the Young Slovenia Party will not vote this time, not as a position, but as an opposition, but we will only support those solutions that lead to a more efficient and rational work of the Slovenian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u109	Anyone else? Please, buddy's baking. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you for your word. I estimate that with the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, we are legislating in our country the standard of clientelism that we are all trying to avoid and which is characterised by the fact that it is not progressing in this country. I will vote against the Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u111	I'm asking, does anyone else want anything else? My friend Jelinczych.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you, Mr. President. I think that we have witnessed today again certain political "deals" to the detriment of the Slovenian Parliament and democracy in Slovenia, when some agreed that the highest LDS party will vote for 16 years of electoral rights or for electoral rights at 16 years of age, in order to obtain in return four votes from a political party that does not in any way defend the interests of Slovenians and Slovenes, but only its own interests. Unfortunately, some of us must be reminded that we have been elected to the Slovenian Parliament to represent - by democratic principles - Slovenian people, Slovenian citizens and citizens. Some political options are trying to take this away. They long for them after they sat in certain political positions at the time, and today they just want to move them to today. They will certainly succeed today, with such or other trades, but I am sure that democracy in Slovenia will suffer greatly. And I am sure that by adopting this Rules of Procedure we are saying good-bye to the democratic principles of the Republic of Slovenia and that we are sinking into the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u113	I'm asking, does anyone else want a word? I guess not. And I'm concluding the possibility of an act of explanation for the voice. We will therefore vote on the draft Rules of Procedure as a whole. I am voting on the proposal for a Rules of Procedure in its entirety. Let's vote, please. We are voting on the draft Rules of Procedure as a whole. Peace in the hall! 81 colleagues and colleagues present. 57 votes in favour, 24 against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a new Rules of Procedure. In two minutes, I'm going to interrupt the National Assembly, so we can get back to the point that we broke up earlier. The Rules of Procedure are closed. We will return to the 19th A-point, this is on the proposal of the Annual Plan for the Development and Maintenance of Highways for 2002.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u114	We'll proceed to interrupt 19. But the agenda - this is an educational proposal for a summer plan for development and maintenance of motorways for the year 2002. Mr Zalokar Orazem also entered the debate in writing. Mrs. Zalokar Orzam, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you so much for saying that. In particular, my discussion will touch on the chapters of toll and rent, at this point, it seems to me that everything that is happening with regard to to tolls in Slovenia is actually one chaos; that the toll system is completely incomplete and that everything we are doing today has already been informed that, in fact, more than 40% of Slovenian highways are not functional in order to collect tolls in their works, that all the measures that are actually being taken here by this year's highway maintenance programme for 2002 are proposed by the applicant, in fact by some fire extinguisher or even better - to blur the situation. It seems to me that everything that happens on tolls - in fact, as I said before - is chaos that we are now setting up some toll stations at some end, at some other end, we are tearing them down, that we do not know how many systems of different tolls, open, closed, electronic tolls and the like, but actually no thing works; finally, I would say that I do not remember well where I last lived when I went across the border of Slovenia, that someone hand handed me a toll sheet. The electronic way that we are supposed to continue to develop is poor and slow. I must say, however, that we are adopting a solution in this annual programme and, among other things, new additional ones in it - the applicant points out new additional toll stations, and in fact, on the infrastructure committee, we have not considered the tolling reports and we have not yet received and discussed the study or what we could draw from this study in recent years as the most acceptable solution. It seems to me that, in the new 2002 annual programme, we are writing down that the documentation for placing in space and then for later construction by 2005 a whole series of new toll stations - something there, something here - is actually just an additional stone talking about the fact that we do not have any completed toll concept. The costs incurred by such a system are, of course, far too large and, on the other hand, it is not possible to determine exactly what the net profit is, even though some figures are, above all, not mentioned in any way, what kind of proceeds are to be made by or brought by new toll stations. I have tabled an amendment on this matter for the main reasons and, in particular, to draw attention to the problem, given that it seems to me that it is a proposalr, given how and what is happening to tolling in Slovenia, is now looking for, now and of course, a variety of current solutions that could at some points bring perhaps more tolling. I must say that I am personally in favour of making honest tolls in Slovenia and collecting tolls everywhere. But such a system as we have right now and the solutions that the 2002 annual programme also brings to me, it seems to me that they are still completely incomplete, non-systemic and uncoordinated. I don't see anywhere what the actual path that they're going to be reading at both the Ministry and Dars to actually have, not until ten or fifteen years later, a fair toll in Slovenia, and, as I said, on some things, the whole sections of non-travelling are going somewhere. Now, in this sense, I would like to point out that in this sense, as a small country, with such a concept as they now offer, we will be deceived by the toll stations at every step before we reach from one side of Slovenia, say from Prekmur to the sea, we may, I don't know, stand in columns that will happen. What will this travel time be like, what will the cost of doing this be like, it seems enormous to me, the environmental burden of the environment I wouldn't even want to talk about, because it doesn't make sense. I think that tolling is no longer in the function of regulating traffic flows and that, above all, there is no concept. There is no concept that would last longer and that would actually bring true tolling. The amendment I have tabled with regard to the additional toll station in Krtina seems to me a special case, given that it will actually be exposed on a good kilometre within a few years, or that one frontal and two additional stations will be set up. What seems particularly controversial is that, in fact, we may be able to seize and enforce the full collection of tolls on some part of Slovenia, but of course every driver still has the option to make a different decision, and that, according to my assessment, it will come mainly to the point that people will be refocused on the regional and main roads from which we are, I will say, the traffic will be diverted at this moment to motorways and again on these roads, especially unnecessary oppression. It seems to me that such "ad hoc" solutions, which also come from the 2002 annual programme, are completely in line with everything that is going on in Slovenia in this area. It is true that at some point they have found that there are not enough tolls collected, which I absolutely agree, that, of course, when we do now, we now find that there may be some pool where we could pick up a little more because there may be more traffic, with half of Slovenia in some way paying, half of Slovenia not to avoid that, not the way that we now expose it, will not carry any in the future, especially what is the goal, this is fair tolling, which will be all the users of the motorway equal, given the use of roads, considering. [[...]] Therefore, I find such "ad hoc" proposals to be absolutely weak, incomplete, and therefore I do not support them for these reasons and not for some selfish reasons. I have to say that that toll station is not about our end, but it is about maybe more Savlovje or some others who will be involved in this way, rather than the area from which I come.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Mamić, then Mr Peterle, Mr Kelemina, and then in the order of order, applied first to the debate, which is limited to 5 minutes. Mr. Mamic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u117	Thank you. I welcome all present. First, I would like to ask why the rapporteur says that 440 kilometers is a highway across Slovenia, and not even half of it. I don't know if it's going to add up on both sides together, but maybe it will, I don't know. I would now like to point out, in the form of one question, how a Member can influence the dynamics of highway construction. At least as far as the opposition is concerned, not at all. For example, when we meet on a committee and make an amendment, even if it was, the last time it was only for 8 million values, we get the answer: Nothing, that's how the government imagined, that's what the program is, and we're not giving up, so we can't support it. If the government does not support it, then it is illusory to think that this amendment will go through the National Assembly. So it's a little weird, too. Then I would have, no matter what, if someone were to spot me "local patriotism," anyway. For example, if we're talking about tolls, I've already suggested that the toll be reduced at the exit of Šempeter to take advantage of the highway. I'm sure there would be a significant multiple of the routes that it actually is. Now there is talk about it or it is already accepted that a toll station will be held at Vogršček. Do it, but do it in the village and in Ajdovščina. Why? Because if someone's driving from Vipava to Vertajba, it's only right to pay 300 tolars, they're transporting 30 km. Only one who drives from village to vortex 11 km is not fair to pay 300 tolars. Please! Is it not enough that those who drive towards Nova Gorica, for three years, paid tolls for the road, which is not yet in the length of Stuck to Podnanos, because to Divaca the road was made, and then we paid just as if we were driving to Divaco. So we've been investing some money in this, too. It's a simple hoax. If I'm speaking, if I'm already in my field, I'd say something about state roads. For the whole of Primorsko, a bad billion, out of 14 billion total, is foreseen for this year. Thus, even 7% of the population, if this is any starting point, say around 17% of the population of Slovenia is in Primorska and even 7% of the money is not a state road programme. I'm warning you, let me do something about it. Is the Ministry of Transport in a subordinate role in our government? I don't know. He says it is. Please raise your voice for some honesty. I don't mind doing it all over Slovenia, because it's right to do it. But there are some starting points, some criteria just have to be. But, above all, honesty, as far as it can be done today, I don't know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with the team! In the first half of the 1990s, the highway programme was a key project of a young Slovenian country. He started to laugh, he started to succeed, and he started to be transparent. Today, in a strange way, we decide or discuss some of the rest of this program, in which the gas toll is no longer tolar, the toll is no longer toll because it applies only to some. Time is given to other dimensions and before us, I would say, are not the key people, because this project is not only a project of the Ministry of Transport and in this structure, in fact, a project of the contractor Darsa. On such an important matter, one would expect a Prime Minister. I can only say, as a supporter of this project for many years, that I will not support such poverty. I believe that it is an unreality of the government's efforts to encourage the coalition Members to be realistic and so on. I cannot support a document that, after its adoption, is now tasked with modifying the national programme, or making the plan a state of play, but that it has the ambition to organise the state of affairs with a plan. I've supported a lot of documents on this subject. I'm not going to do that because I think it's like living or lagging behind some big project. There are a lot of questions to be asked here, but since we're entering from one farce to another, I'm not even going to ask them, even though I think I'd probably get some answers from the team I know. But I'm saying, problems are crucial outside this team. I think some have already spoken, including about the question of trust. It used to be a tolar. And the one who "tanked" knew that it would go so far and so far from a liter for this and this purpose. Today, of course, petrol money is intended for current needs and kisses. Therefore, this additional conclusion, which is highly unusual, could also say that it should be unusual, but for this house is ordinary, even in this spirit. Here our Committee proposes to adopt a decision or finding that the annual development plan deviates significantly from the amendment of the national programme. It therefore proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to propose a new amendment to the national programme for consideration by the National Assembly. You see, this sequence is unsustainable for one such project and one mature democracy. Once this change is put in place, we will put the annual programme down again, because it will come to light again, given the public financial opportunities, that there is even less tolar or someone has eaten or drank it as you wish, and we will go down with this matter. So I would like this trend to turn around, but I can't imagine that this can be done with this power that we now have and I'm done with it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u121	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable once again. In the proposal for this annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways, the committee, as well as today in the National Assembly, expressed considerable criticism to the Ministry, Dars and all those institutions that run these projects. The most interesting thing is, of course, that this criticism, quite harsh criticism, came mainly or quite much from the coalition Members. That's a very interesting conclusion. Quite difficult words have fallen down, especially for the last time on the committee, namely the lack of transparency of all these projects, the strange crash that is taking place here, the spilling of funds, the power of individuals who can influence the implementation of these projects and the change, then the ever-changing priorities, the unfair toll, there has been a lot of talk, about bad concepts, about big, wide-ranging delays today. To build certain sections with the most expensive options, instead of having the cheapest happenings, and to collect tolls on which it would be possible then to build other sections, to choose overpriced sections or politically also to determine some very expensive sections such as the Trojans, where we threw dozens of billions needlessly into the void, it would be possible to "supplie" for sure a dozen billion dollars, but for that no one had a headache. In short, there were a lot of bad points or a lot of warnings about the poor implementation of the national programme, as well as all other projects for the construction of motorways. I would say that there have been too many of these bad points, but once again, as I point out, it is very interesting that this has been pointed out by the coalition. I am also somehow defining myself, and the Infrastructure Committee has also adopted such conclusions that these things must finally be made transparent once and make a balance of the national programme, as agreed, which would be acceptable and precise and which would no longer be allowed to derogate and then someone would finally stand behind that rebalancing and someone would answer for it. Unfortunately, these are all words lost in the void. It works its way forward, billions are lost, and the effects are not as high as expected and as they should be. I'm pretty sure we've talked about this a lot and it doesn't make sense that we're reopening it now. But in view of these comments and even a number of criticisms, particularly by the coalition Members, I somehow expect this to be done and they will demand that the coalition that has this power, which has this ability to demand from the government, should make these things transparent and will probably reject this proposal today. But well, this may be my purely general assessment. This will probably not happen at the final stage, because we have already found that we have placed this item on the agenda just because we do not do any more damage to this country, because these documents are not in time in the National Assembly, if we are counting that we are already in April, that this project should be a project long ago and that it should also be implemented in the full phase if we do not want delays in 2002. I am firmly convinced that the coalition has in hand all the instruments for the effectiveness of this complete project, but the coalition is not prepared to implement this power and its role. That's a fact. Then here, with individual comments, you're trying to get the voters together somehow. I expect from you, honourable Members, what you will do in the future. Personally, I am very disappointed in such a project and will abstain from voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I will support the annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia, mainly because it predicts the opening of a highway section in the length of eight kilometres of the Vransko-Trojane motorway. I will support it out of relief because it closes for almost a decade the long period of construction of the highway that we were given to the inhabitants of the upper Savinja Valley and the Styrian part of the Black Grabn.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u124	Mr. Sušnik, just let me interrupt you for a second because some Members are watching me because it's 18 o'clock. At a meeting with the heads of the parliamentary groups with the President of the National Assembly, it was agreed that we will continue to hold the 27th item of the agenda, which we have already done, now we are at the 19th and 31st points. I therefore ask for patient discussions, and I hope that we will conclude these two points as soon as possible, as agreed. Dear colleagues, these are not procedural proposals. The agreement between the President of the National Assembly and the leaders of the parliamentary groups is an agreement. This is an agreement which was adopted on the basis of a decision of the National Assembly on Thursday at 6 p.m. Please allow Mr Sušnik to continue his debate. Mr. Sušnik, please. I apologize for taking your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u125	Thank you very much, but we're not looking at the clock right now. I will also support this because this programme contains the continuation and completion of the highway maintenance base, which is, unlike what we have suffered, something good that brings into our space. I expect that all the promises we have received will be fulfilled and that our citizens will have the advantage of employment at work, which the highway also indirectly brings. No matter how much trouble we face, we are citizens of this part of the Savinja Valley in a very unequal situation, because, unlike others, we pay the toll toll, that there are problems with the implementation of the location regulations, both for the section of Arja Vas - Vransko as well as for the department of Vransko - Trojane or Blagovica. Let me just mention that there is not yet a road for slow traffic on Vransko's motorway exports, that the problems with the construction of the substitute water line for the village of Ločica are problems. I can say that the highway as such, or this section that will be opened, brings a lot of good. He will rescue us from serious traffic problems and, on the other hand, we will get rid of almost one decade of construction. I also argue that this motorway section is a sample example of a compromise between the profession and the local community on how to put the road into space. But that is probably why this highway section is probably a little bit more expensive or significantly more expensive because it's made as I think the highway section has to be, it's said to be acceptable to people who also have to live after they're built on these highway sections. However, that the final price of this highway section has not yet been recorded, I say that because part of the profession has made a mistake. Here I am referring to the leaders who, when dealing with both motorway sections, had very different criteria and were deliberately or unintentionally, I cannot judge, ignored the implementation of high-water containment measures at the Vransko-Trojana section. This is what I first pointed out last year to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Kopač, who then directly ordered a study on the retention of high water through the same profession. This study shows that, in connection with this water management sector, five more dry reservoirs, a total area of more than 30 hectares, must be built on the riverside of Bolska and Savinja. This means five additional barriers, because only in this way will we be able to ensure flood safety. The fact is that the leaders on that side, on the Styrian side, apparently forgot what the concept of contributing surfaces was, but that they took this into account on the Ljubljana side, as the tunnel, the Driščica holder, was already built along with the highway section, and all the necessary measures were taken to contain high water. For this reason, I say that the price for this section will be even higher because, at the final stage, it will be necessary to build these necessary high-water restraints. Let me say one more thing, if I'm allowed, given that I was interrupted earlier. I think it is also totally unacceptable that after the completion of the individual motorway sections, we cannot in any way invite the local community to the truffles of tourists that are rolling along these highways, and to present them with the sights, or at home, to say "pull" at least part of the passengers who are taking these motorways off this highway and what to get out of them. It is incomprehensible that we cannot place a warning board for the cave of Hell, for the Mozirski grove and something like that. I think we should break up with this practice or with it. Before the vote, I would like to see an even more detailed explanation or reply as to what measures are envisaged for the retention of high waters at the source of Bolska, related to the construction of the Vransko-Trojana motorway section than the section of the Vransko-Blagovica motorway section. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much. In view of Mr Sok's objection to the need to vote on whether we are still working after 6 p.m., I note that they have informed all Members that the assembly will carry out points 27, 19a and 31, which speak in a final form, of course, that we will complete the consideration of these points and also decide on them, binding. It is true, however, that the president of the National Assembly, I quote a magnetogram, announced that he had given this issue that we are also working after 6 p.m., the National Assembly decides if this is necessary. If you are judging, Mr Sok, that it is necessary for us to vote, I will, according to the President of the National Assembly's announcement that we are working so long to carry out the points we have postponed to today, by assessing that they are necessary, and it is therefore right to decide on them and to complete the procedures, she has put this procedural proposal to the vote. I invite Members and Members who are not in the Chamber to join us, so that we can vote on the procedural proposal, to work after 6 p.m. and thus to meet our objective, and we also vote on the 19th and 31st points, which, however, has already been fully agreed with the leaders of the Group. We will vote on the procedural proposal to complete these two points. Let's vote! Secondly, we will vote on the proposal to continue working until the end to complete both points. Let's vote! There are 47 Members and Members present. 41 votes against 4. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We continue with the general debate. Mr. Kremjar also took the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Given this extension, I'm going to try to be, no, I'm not going to say shorter, because that's the worst forecast. I think we're all working under very difficult conditions, as far as the agenda is concerned, from the government, the ministry, to us. Simply because it's not the right concept, because it's not clear what and when and how we're going to build, because even the proponents don't know how long we're going to build the program that's ahead of us, and because they don't know what kind of money they have and because they don't know, and we don't know how much less how we're going to engage other funds if we do. They talk about concessions, they talk about a lot of things, but there's nothing to talk about except talking about it. Which, of course, is very bad. Especially for us when we have to make decisions. We have one completely opaque situation, and we have completely imprudent proposals. Because there is no final objective because it is not clearly outlined, because it is not clear what will happen and when will it be done, the proponents and we are wandering and, of course, the proponents are exposed to various pressures and therefore, from year to year, the basic ideas and basic directions and basic paths that have already been outlined and agreed. Such a story will never go forward and cannot go forward. That's why we talked a lot about these things on the committee, not once, not for the first time, we also spoke last year. I'm sorry, but this is now a direct criticism, if you want, to propose, to the people you're dealing with today, nothing's changed since last year. Unfortunately.Today we spoke at the adoption of the programme in exactly the same way and nothing has changed except that some of the directions have grown stronger and some have decreased. That's not real, and that's not good. I will not go into the debate about what would be good, which road to build sooner, which to build later. There's been a lot of talk today, except for things we all see, but we don't need to be ignorant of how big experts, about tolls, toll stations, how to collect tolls and so on and so on. I have to say, a lot of people are tired of repeating that we were building toll stations, tearing down toll stations. Now that we don't know what toll system we're going to have, we're going to have some different toll systems. That, as we have heard today, we have about 40 percent of the network that we could cover with tolls and thus build even more that is not covered. This, of course, gives opportunities for manipulation and, if not for manipulation, gives opportunities for tampering that are not necessarily targeted. But it gives you a chance. That's why I just want to say the following. If we don't, and I'm afraid that we won't, by next year, adopt very clear guidelines on what needs to be done - now we know much more than we know last year about the whole story, how much money we can expect from all sources, what it will take to give concessionaires and find concessionaries and see if they can and are interested if we don't do all this and really concrete one very, very real program, not a program of desire, what we would like to do, because we want a lot of things, but a real program, what can be done and what needs to be done. That can be done. For almost a year you are preparing at the Ministry or some commission is preparing ideas about concessions. I know that three or four years are being prepared, but before that there were different versions of the road going towards Croatia from Maribor, and we do not yet have and we do not know how we will do it. If we have four more years to prepare, consciences, currents go, these paths will close. You may have noticed that Hungary and Croatia have agreed on certain things that go past us, and if we do nothing, these paths will pass by us. And after they go, and when they build the roads, it's too late. Then all those, including the political stories that we once had, why it should be good to go somewhere, fall into the water and if they connect through Croatia to the port of Reza, they will not connect to the port of Kori. I won't go on because I could do more things [[...]] One thing that's very important, I don't expect an answer, because we got it on the committee, and it would be good if we repeated it, impossible, not impossible, unhygienic. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the debate.]] to amend the decisions already taken in that body. [[...]] I'm talking, as an example, about the bridge over Drava, which someone has crossed, regardless of whether the contractor has already been selected. I'm talking as a case, I don't know if it's blue or not wise to build this section in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much. Mr. Ferry Horvath, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Minister with his associates! I'll be very brief, given the late hour, and I'd only talk about two things. The first item is 1.2., these are preparatory activities for the start of the construction of sections after 2000. I believe that this item is financially too small, I do not propose an amendment because I am a realist and I know that such an amendment would not be accepted or would be difficult to take anywhere else, because we all find that the funds are too small. In doing so, however, I would like to draw attention to both the rebalancing and, in particular, the next year's plan to provide the necessary resources for preparatory activities. This is not only a condition for normal development and building dynamics under the national programme, but also a condition for the implementation of the national programme. If individual preparatory work is not done in a timely manner, it is also possible to choose a national programme or to set or build different priorities. Secondly, I refer this question or appeal to the government and to us all Members and Members. The truth must be told that we are very loud and legitimately justified on behalf of our regions when we defend each section as important as the need for it to be built and built as soon as possible. But when we talk about the globalization of funds that provide the basic conditions for the volume of construction, we are not usually so loud at the time. Therefore, I also think it is good that in the additional conclusions it is proposed that the national programme's rebalancing of the government by mid-year, the decree on the annual plan for next year, be very important and that it will be prepared by October, which means that somehow the discussion of both documents will take place in parallel with the budget, which is likely to be complemented by the following year, and also when we talk about the investment plan for many years to come. At the same time, I would only conclude with the view or opinion that it is certainly a strategic interest of this country, that between the priority investments in the motorway network and that we actually build this highway cross as soon as possible, not only because of the placement of Slovenia in international flows and the danger mentioned by my colleague Kremjar, that road flows bypass us, but mainly because of what was written in the law that was mentioned by my colleague Peterle, which was adopted at the beginning of the 1990s and was later amended, and the national programme followed this, where one of the main priorities for building motorways was set by a more coherent economic development in Slovenia. I wouldn't go into the details right now because I predicted I'd be brief. This was discussed in more detail by her colleague Maria Possonceva. It is true in Pomurje that it is feared that we would not remain completely on the tail and that this would further deepen the differences or the lag behind the pomur region behind the other regions in Slovenia. This is likely to be further affected by this sensitivity of Prekmurcs and Pomurs, the fact that the location documentation for the section of the Vučja Vas - Cogetinci has been obtained, and the second, the state of the roads, after, in fact, all things first and most began to bloom in winter roads, and this is actually the main road on the 5th corridor to which we rely so many times, since much of this road is actually more makadam than asphalt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Since there are no more Members and Members who would like to discuss, I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to the consideration of amendments or follow-up and complementary proposals to the proposal for a decree on the Annual Plan for the Development and Maintenance of Highways for 2002. The debate and decision will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 28.3.2002. We received the bench with the date of the 2.4th amendment to Chapter 9, taking into account the warning and position of the secretariat for legislation of which Anton Anderlič is the proposer. There is also no amendment to Chapter I, of which the proposal is mag. Majda Potter. We are therefore moving on to debate and decision-making on the amendments. First of all, I am putting an amendment to the title proposed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee in the debate and decision-making process. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. Unfortunately, at the first vote, we were not concluding. I very much ask my colleagues and colleagues who are nearby to join us so that we can make a valid decision. There are 46 of us in the hall, so I'd like to ask your attention. This is the second time we've voted on the amendment to the title. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against no one. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment has been adopted and the address has been changed. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the two amendments to Chapter I. The amendment of the drafters Joseph Jerovska and Aloyz Sok is in the table and on the table is to the First Chapter of the amendment of Mrs POTATE. I'm putting both amendments to the debate. Mrs. Potter, then Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u131	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government. The annual programme for the development and maintenance of motorways is an important document. For him, it is important that he is adopted in a timely manner and, secondly, it is of utmost importance that he is in line with the national highway construction programme. According to the records or according to what has been said in public, Slovenia still has a priority in building the fifth transport corridor. That remains a strategic goal. Many times it was possible to read and hear that the construction of the highway from Kopra to Lendava or from the Italian to Hungarian borders, as it was said, is a strategic goal, although lately perhaps with some distinction to stop this traffic at Maribor. That is why I have decided to table an amendment and get you to support this amendment, as its support would nevertheless prevent what is obvious. It is obvious that there has been a slowdown on this part of the highway in the implementation of the highway program. I am aware that the resources available are limited. I am also aware that the actual state of affairs needs to be taken into account and that the dynamics of the implementation of the motorway programme may be slowed down, but the slowdowns will be proportionally distributed. I believe, however, that what is happening in this part of the amendment does not indicate that the obligations of 2000 have not already been met, nor does 2002 indicate the possibility that this proposed amount of things could continue. That is why I have tabled an amendment that proposes an increase of 500 million in the table, which means that the proposed number of 890.000, expressed in 1000 SIT, would naturally increase to 1,390.000 SIT. Thank you all for supporting the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I wouldn't want to repeat what was just said. The financial difficulties in building the Slovenian highway cross must be extremely great. Mr Jerovšek explained earlier that he was part of the agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and the European Union, which was signed years ago, also this link from the Slovenian Bistrica via Ormož to the Hungarian border. The railway station of Prague should be built after this programme, I think it was completed in 1999. It was included in the annual highway programme last year, and this year this railway is no longer included in this programme. It is a pity that the mother’s working body so quickly rejected this amendment. It is also a pity that the government has not determined whether or not it has been, it is not stated here that Members could know what the government's position on this issue is. However, I would like to say to those who do not know this problem that it is probably a unique case in Europe, or at least in the central part of Europe, that the road crosses the main railway line on the route Maribor - Ljubljana and that this railway crossing is closed daily for up to 19 hours. This means that there are columns on this part, that there are large time delays and that the Slovenian economy is facing great losses here. Today, when we are focused in this Europe on the fact that businesses have to produce as much as possible and as cheaply as possible, it is a loss in the fact that trucks are standing here a lot of time a day, huge It would actually be least of what they expect, it is said that in this annual programme at least that they are working on project documentation and that somehow there is a plan for the railway from Prague to be solved in some way: whether it will be a bypass or a subway or it will be another option. The way it is now, it can't be. The same problem is Ptuj. There are also large columns on Ptuj on this work, but I think that Ptuj is being saved in some way at this time, while the Pragarski Oblast in this document has been forgotten. Our wish, as Mrs Potret has said, would be to allow Members of this amendment, despite the opposition of his mother's working body, to support him and, at least, to remain in the annual programme, to be kept in mind by the government when it forms the national programme's rebalancing. Otherwise, I would like the government to express its position on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u135	Of course, I will support some amendments that have been part of the national programme for years. For 8 years it is clear that I have here from documents and laws, part of the national programme of the Pragersko Oblast. The funds were earmarked, it was promised when these funds were diverted that this did not put the problem of not being compromised by this diversion, that only a small fraction of the preparatory work had been carried out. I will read from the consent of the Republic of Slovenia to rent loans for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections for 1999, dated 10 February 1999. Construction on motorway sections will begin in 1999, so on, the Pragersko Oblast. And so every year. All I'm asking is that you support, and I know that it won't start building this year because the funds are allocated, but that the taxi stays. No more excuses and I ask my colleagues here to protect their credibility. Six or seven times you've already raised your hand to protect your credibility, because we're under the headlights. In fact, it is an economic vein against Hungary. The biggest problem, as colleague Sok said, is probably in central Europe. And let's not close our eyes. There is no political need more valuable than the interests of the Slovenian economy and the Slovenian state. National programmes have been confirmed several times and we do not have to allow them to be denied this year. But I have to tell the Ministry once again, it stands here and your credibility goes down if you don't explicitly support this at least. Then we cannot count on you as political representatives in such an important ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. I don't want to delay, but it's a late hour, but I'm sure you've read the explanation, which is just one paragraph. I would only add the following, but I will not repeat what I said on behalf of the Group of Members. See, it is necessary to have an investment decision, and this is possible if we have an investment programme, which must be in the annual plan. Therefore, please, colleagues, colleagues, support this amendment, which amounts to 800 million tolars, or 800 thousand in thousands, because this will be the end for the Proletar Brigades in Maribor. All I'm adding is that Maribor's already funded 80% under the agreement with the government, and it's in considerable advance. I repeat only that the construction operation in Maribor is ready and available. If we give it up, I believe, and I am honest, honest, I probably won't be able to make any use of it in all this year's program. But let's take advantage of them and let this work run its course. Please, on behalf of all of these, not just the Mariborians, the entire area that is being driven from Koroška across the Koroška bridge and beyond to support this amendment. Thank you for your service.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you very much, Mr. Kebrich. I think you've just discussed the amendment to chapter three. Now we're at two amendments to chapter one. Replica, Mr. Parallel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. Although Mr Kebrich did indeed discuss, at least according to the number he mentioned, some additions later, but this is a matter of principle. I would support such amendments if I could play a little game that is very wasteful. But I would ask the representatives of the government: where will we get an additional 500 million tolars if we vote on this amendment from a colleague of mags? Majde Potter? If there's a case, then he'll get my support. However, if the matter falls apart, then I cannot support this amendment as a liability.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you very much. It is important to ask the wider question if Comrade Podobnik is asking. It is necessary to explain even more precisely all the positions where the applicant received the money for what he wrote down. This House will decide how it will be. To ask a question, given that the proposer has proposed something and now to ask where you will get the money for the change, it is, of course, a little awkward. We might ask another question: Does everything that is written have to be as it is written? But we don't remember asking that question, just asking when someone proposes, and then wondering how to go on, where to get to go on with it. Who says what you wrote is real? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Two more replicas. First Mr. Kebrič, then Mr. Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. I repeat, my respectable colleague, Janez Sponik. I think the question is justified, but if you have listened to me, I have predicted that I am firmly convinced that not all of these routes are covered in this programme for this year, in building permits, in readiness, in redemptions and in all this. That's where the money's gonna stay. On behalf of the parliamentary group, I have made it clear to you who will juggle, who will pull, that I will not say machining with certain means. Therefore, I do not think it is clear to answer where the extra money will be obtained. I claim that this money available will be redistributed because we have given them free hands, a green light, to work. If there's no paperwork, they'll put it somewhere else. However, I think that additional resources can be found, and therefore I think it is appropriate to support this amendment, as does the amendment of Comrade Potrat.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u145	It's a very brief replica of a fellow Kremjar and a respected colleague Ivan. I understand the road development and maintenance plan as a document very similar to the state budget. If you add something to it, you have to take something somewhere else if we're going to vote on the amendment of a colleague of mags. You're wasting, then we'll either have to bring this money somewhere, or with the harmonisation amendment, into the whole amount of money. Otherwise, what colleague Ivan said will be true is that we will believe in the future that the items are only provisional, that the height is not fixed and that the documentation and other procedures will speculate for a particular section. I think it's time for the government to come. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u147	Thank you very much. First of all, it's just this dilemma. Of course, I would expect the amendment to say what Mr Podobnik has now explained that the amendment will also answer the question from where to take it. This is a normal procedure for adopting the budget and this is either part of the budget or a similar document such as the budget itself. That's what they say. That's one option. Another possibility is that the government will then come with a revised plan, but this means that it cannot be adopted so quickly. However, as regards specific matters, only I, if I may, would reply that I, as a representative of the government in this place, cannot support any of the amendments which interfere with this budgetary or financial part. I would like to explain that at the bridge - here we have already given one answer to parliamentary questions - through Drava in this way we open a section that costs about 56 billion at the end. Given the priorities that, given the transport burdens, we will have to decide when to start with this year's rebalancing, with a national programme balance, because, of course, the object itself is not contributing to us at all. The Prague Amendment - so in 1994, I do not know this law that was, but then the Pragerski Oblast was not in the Dars programme, but it was in another programme. The Darsa programme included the Pragersko Oblast in the revision of the national programme in 1998. But it's like history. The problem is in this - and this is what I said the last time - on the Infrastructure Committee that the content of the amendment tabled is already covered in the construction plan - what is the whole title - for 2002. In this project, the complete content of the amendment is already covered in this plan, to give information that about 18% of the land already purchased is close to 18% of the land, that the project documentation has been completed, to some extent start archeological excavations. I think these things are written under point 1.2 on the page, about, 3. But under point 1.2. So, because of this, I personally estimate that it is not a problem at all whether this amendment is adopted or not, because this work and what you're suggesting with this amendment is already covered in this plan and would be essentially doubling. That's the answer. Now, as far as, of course, the questions about the additional funds are concerned, the answer is, of course, the one I explained earlier. You should tell me where to get it from in this case. But since some amendments apply, but this is already going on, they apply to toll stations and so on-- because I didn't get a chance to answer a few things before.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u148	Mr. Minister, if you'll excuse me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u149	This will essentially be about policy at toll stations, tolling and so on.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u150	Mr. Secretary, allow me! Let us conclude this debate, decide, and then you have the floor to discuss each amendment again. I think it's smarter and more rational to do it there. Two replicas, first Mr. Kangler, then Mr. Kremjar. Here you go, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you for your word. Now there's something I really don't understand. Here we are now talking about how it should be that nothing can be changed, what the consequences of this amendment, if we accept it, will be. I asked a clear and loud question on the Infrastructure Committee. Who is the one in this country who can change some programs: Is it a government, or are they members of the national assembly, or are they two individuals? What's this all about? Today we are dealing with a problem if we accept one or two amendments that have such and different financial implications. Someone in this country, because the minister specifically mentioned this bridge in Maribor via Drava, which is supposed to be worth 56 billion, the entire section, and the bridge itself is worth 4 billion 300. I'm speaking specifically, not because this bridge is in Maribor, but because it's a way of doing it. The call was made, the contractor selected already last year in May. Who at that time changed their mind on Dars that this contract wasn't signed? And where did he get his powers from? Why, then, did an invitation to tender for the choice of the contractor come about? Why was the paperwork even given? Why did companies apply for this invitation? But in the night, someone makes it up, and we're not gonna do it. But not the MPs, or the Infrastructure Committee, or anyone else. Two individuals. Is this the political influence of individuals? Will Parliament or government decide where and when a section will be carried out? It's a typical case. The contractor selected, the contract has not been signed for more than a year - or May 15. Who is it? Somebody have to answer that. I am very pleased that we have received a clear and thorough answer on the Committee on Infrastructure from the former Member, who is now a member of the Dars administration. However, honourable Members, this is not how it is done. The National Assembly is the one who will decide, not the individuals we have recently taken a little too much of a right. And with today's adoption of the Rules of Procedure, individuals will have even greater rights than they have before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, then Mrs. Pozsonec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u153	Many times the syntagma used wrong world - it really is wrong. Mr. Secretary, I repeat. You suggest certain things, you don't decide in this story. You know, and this is the wrong world. Because you said, "We said so, but you tell us where to take something else." On the basis of professional criteria and all other criteria, you can propose something. And what's here is your suggestion. This proposal is only and only a proposal. And there's no question as you asked him - I'm sorry to speak directly, but because it's a replica, it's probably also okay - it's not a good question where to take it. Because it's not definitive what you presented. It's just your vision. And given all that I've said before, that there are no visions, it's because of some of your professional decisions, agreements of such could or otherwise, less professional, more professional, less political, more political and so on. All this is possible and all this, of course, is also acceptable to a certain limit. All I'm saying is that it's impossible to ask a dilemma, and I've previously replicated it when my colleague Sponik similarly asked a question. It's impossible to set this dilemma. We're done, we're done. That's what she is. You tell me if you want something to change, where to take it, and what to get out of it. This proposal, which was not what you are now proposing to us, is not a coordinated proposal within any body of this national assembly. This is a proposal that is coordinated at the level of government, as far as I know. That's right. But the government is the government. This is the National Assembly. And this national council is finally going to say whether or not it's going to happen. And this National Assembly can delete all of this and do it again because it has jurisdiction. The government doesn't have that authority. And neither do you as a proponent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Three more replicas. First Mrs Possoncheva, then Mr Sok and Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Yes, that was an ungrateful question from the Minister, where to take the money. That's the government's concern. But I'd like to suggest some items that could be taken, say, money. For example, as long as the subjects are dripped in dust and mud, there is no need for the various ministers and ministry workers to ride with the latest cavalry. Create a budget rebalancing and there can be a knitting process, as well as a variety of palaces that grow like mushrooms in the rain for various national authorities. That's the least of it. You know, get your money there first. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u157	I'd like to replicate Mr. Kremjar. I already told the Rules of Procedure that there is no problem in the Rules of Procedure when we are thus wasting time here in Parliament when you are coordinating coalition parties. The problem is, I'll repeat, in the coalition contract, there's the problem. Because if the Ministry of Transport were autonomous, then it would also be an autonomous decision and you would consider these matters at your coalition coordination, where more needs to be done and where not. And here in the National Assembly, mainly the opposition would come up with their suggestions that we spend most of our time and listen, I would say, to the critics who rule over the ruling. And the new rules of procedure, of course, will not resolve this matter. Mr. Squirrel then told me that I had confused the concept. I didn't mix them up. But I know, let's say what the coalition contract should contain. Mostly the autonomy of ministries. What happened to us that Mr. Presecnik was replaced when he was away from the hospital [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u158	Mr Sok, I ask you to limit yourself to the subject before us in your debate. That won't solve these problems, really, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u159	I have to listen to these discussions of the coalition Members, and I think to myself, and I think, why don't you agree when you're at various meetings and occasions. I cannot agree, Madam President, to the criticism of Minister Presecnik here today, but the financial part programme has been prepared by another minister in another situation. So let's be honest and say what it is: there's not enough money for all the projects to be implemented. And now we set priorities, and we also advocate these priorities. But as for Mr. Kangler, who is he who decides where and where to build and where not. For last year, Mr Anderlič decided on the Infrastructure Committee not to build in Ormož. So, let's say who made the decision. He came to the board, and he said, "I'm not gonna let you do what you did in the past, but now we're gonna do it." And then, of course, such projects as the railway station of Prague Prague also come out of this programme - although they convince me there that it is not quite so, but the material that I received as a member of the infrastructure committee does not contain anything about Prague. So again it looks like we've got a little bit of a mix-up with a lot of different materials, just like it was about last year. And it is indeed a problem that this national programme is thus changing over its thumb and that we should not first adopt a revision of the national programme for the construction of motorways and then the annual plan, but vice versa. We adapt everything in some way to our financial options, and then, of course, here we confess and argue about where the greater need is and where the smaller need is. Actually, the emergency is everywhere, I'd say, it's big everywhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Replicas in order, first Mr Jerovšek, then Mr Kebrič, Mrs Possonec and Mr Kangler. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I think that Mr Sok has already clarified most of the problem, but I must point out to the Minister that if he cannot ensure that national programmes and programmes are in place - already in 1994 and I do not know how many times written, documented - remain a part of reality and the future and if he fails these programmes, then you will have political consequences. I believe you're a prisoner there, but in any case, there will be political liquidation, I assure you, not on my part. But please - of course, Mr Anderlich now reigns there because he decided last year as they say here, and he can decide on ministers and everything. This isn't Parliament. In this case, I propose that we postpone this until the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure; everything will be legitimately decided, but someone will have all the business rights. If the Ministry cannot provide a national programme, at least in order - I do not say that everything will be fulfilled. Why are we accepting this? Why do we reason on the rules of procedure that we have lost a lot of time? But all six years we've been discussing things that didn't come into reality at all, and they've been rocking that paper. These two points are very connected. Come on, let's at least take a cab and state that there's something else going on, because that's so eloquent, I think. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kebrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Secretary! I fully understand that you are not in a position to change the government's proposal here today. You're not. But where were you when this proposal was made? Wasn't there a possibility at the time of how to get more money for the program? Or else: do you have assurances, but tell us here clearly that everything in this proposal will be realized this year and that the money will be spent there, for which it is set here in certain items? I have already told you twice today that it will not be possible to make use of all the resources because not all these documents are in the Sopoča. And if we really accept this October's proposal for a plan for next year, all these specific concerns will be dropped. You're late, you're putting us in time. If this proposal were received last October, there would be no such debate. Because this is now a debate, but solve the situation, and it's not right to ask us where to get the money. If any of us were to sit in your shoes, he'd take care of that money. And this is your duty, not ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs Possonce, then Mr Kangler, Mr Minister also wanted a word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you very much. I'd like to object to Mr. Sok. Mr Sok, I think we should be happy to hear the critical words, the observations from the coalition. Because as long as you're the only one protesting, nothing comes of it. You're outvoted. But if we hear criticism from the other side, maybe that's what's coming out of it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u167	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u168	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u169	I have to be honest with you that my colleague has taken quite a few words from me, so I'm going to try to shorten it. Comrade Sok, I do not think it is important for us to talk about this Parliament about who is in the coalition and who is in the opposition on such important substantive issues that we are dealing with today and when we adopt such an important programme that forms the Slovenian infrastructure. In view of what you have read to your colleague Kremjar and also to us coalition Members: the last is when I personally and also ask you to appoint Members between the coalition and the opposition. Even in this case, if the opposition in Parliament were to have a little more constructive than we have, a lot of the programme would have a different image than it does. You too take some responsibility when allowing some individuals to take things their own way. So do you. With me. And I think that in these things, such as this programme, you need to listen in particular and talk about professional arguments and problems. It's true. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u170	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u171	I'd ask if you'd calm him down, because he really bothers me when he talks so loudly, and I hear him, even though he doesn't understand my language. It is true that we are facing a major problem in northeastern Slovenia. On this issue, fellow Member Kremjar can speak clearly and loudly about the fact that he from Miklavž during the tourist season or at a time when some return to the Balkans or the Middle East spends almost an hour and a half or two hours to come to Maribor. You can see a police helicopter in the sky every half an hour, tracking traffic, traversing the side streets and so on. It must be clear to you that Šentilj's international transition has been, remains, and will be the largest international transition in Europe. It's the biggest. This is the door to the Balkans and the Middle East. There is no more war in the Balkans. And all the transit has moved from the east to Šentilj and through Croatia, through Serbia forward to the Balkans. And if we do not approach our infrastructure according to the time ahead so that people can travel normally - those who live on this infrastructure, or those who use this infrastructure. And that's the problem. And here I expect the role of Dars and all other professional institutions to convince us, with expertise and arguments, whether it will be built at this time or not; why it will be built on the other hand, why not where it should be and so on. That's the argument. I think that these are very important data that will have to be taken into account on Dars sooner or later.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary has the floor. Mr. President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. So, in these dilemmas, I, of course, apologize to Mr. Kremjar in case I said something really wrong. But I'm going to get a magnetogram to find out because that's exactly what I think, because so many parliamentary practices, of course, I have that the procedures are exactly what you said: that the government is a candidate, that the State Assembly is accepting and that the Ministry is not even a proposer. This is completely clear to me and I am trying never to be wrong when I speak of the title of a law, the title of a document, that it is a proposal of a document or a proposal of a law. I completely agree with you about this, and I apologize if I have said anything else. But I said earlier, now that this is related to those words before, when I said, how is it possible in the event of an amendment that entails a financial obligation? All that is possible is that, of course, the National Assembly tells us from where the item is taken, or that in the case of such an uncoordinated plan, of course, the government takes the position. The ministry can only be a professional - or whatever we call it - proposaler, including Darsa and the government must come with an amendment that will bring the matter back - not to say put it back in exactly the text that it was, but that will reconcile the matter. I agree with you about this, but now, until I read the magnetogram, I am not sure that I am, I would say, quite differently, that the National Assembly has no right to correct or that the government has exclusive rights in this regard. Of course I apologize for that. What Mrs Possonce said: Of course, I can't even talk about this, nor can I suggest any reallocation of funds from what I know which items under the state budget. But to Mr Jerovsk, I think I have already answered. We are aware that this item - because today we are discussing a plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2002 - is that this item, the railway station of Prague, has been in the national programme only since the National Assembly adopted the national programme's balance in 1998. And Dars ran procedures at this time, and I've already told you where these procedures are in Prague: about 18% bought out or maybe some percentage less land, project documentation is made. When the decision to do so falls, it will also be possible to start construction work. Of course, I am fully aware that this bypass, or this problem at an extremely important section, is that the prisons are closed there, not for exactly 20 hours, but 14 hours is really minimal, that trains are also driving at a higher speed along this track, that is, with tilting techniques and so on, where we also have to solve the problem of low-level crossing under the law on rail safety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I think that we can conclude the debate and move to a decision, first on the amendment to Chapter 1, which we have in our review, two fellow Members of Parliament and then on to Mr Jerovsk and Mr Sok. We decide on this amendment as the first amendment and then the amendment to the same chapter under number 2, I can say, the amendment of Collegiate Purity. We therefore decide on the amendment to Chapter 1 of the two Members. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. It's 25 votes to 21. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the amendment of the two Members has been adopted. We decide on the amendment of a fellow Member. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 22 to 26. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 26.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on the second chapter and two amendments to this chapter. Both are proposed by Ambassador Maja Zupan. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under 1 to Chapter 2. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 9 to 36. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 10 votes against 38. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has not been accepted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Chapter 3, which is proposed by the Group of Members of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u175	I will not repeat this, but the arguments for this amendment have been put forward so many times that they really have to convince you and please - let us vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Let's vote! 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 22 to 28. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 28.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the three amendments to VI. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the implementation of the general budget of the Union for the The amendment under 1 shall be proposed by the Member of the Council of Zalokar Orazem and by the Committee under 2 and 3. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 15 to 29. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it the amendment under 1 has not been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote. 49 Members and Members are present. 41 votes against 6. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're also deciding on the amendment under 3. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 2. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. There are no more amendments to the submitted chapters in the review, but we still have an amendment to Chapter IX. Mr Tonet Anderlič, on warnings or position of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs. On the amendment to Chapter IX. I'm opening a debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Anderlich, then Mr. Sok. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u177	I would only ask the proposer if the word recapitulation is correct Slovenian, whether this could be written otherwise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u179	Of course, I expect that there will be a sharp revolution and that this amendment will not be adopted. But it's more because something else is conscious, but believe me, it's only because the secretariat has warned that it's kind of unsystemic if this part of the text was in this program. And since the government doesn't have a chance to make an amendment so quickly, I put it in myself. So there's no conspiracy. However, as far as the word is concerned, it is copied from the basic text and I did not make it up and introduce it into this text. I would have written it differently if I hadn't corrected it from the basic text.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Would government representatives like a word? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u181	So, of course, we support, I think that I can say that the government is this amendment, because in the end the 2003 programme is practically ready, it is very soon possible to bring it, or the government can refer it to the National Assembly. I take this observation that recapitalisation is not the most Slovenian term, but is always used in professional circles. We will see if any more understandable Slovenian term can be used in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u182	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Chapter 9. Let's vote! There are 50 Members and Members present. There were 43 votes against 3. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decree on an annual plan for the development and maintenance of motorways for 2002 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 53 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes against 5. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. With regard to the agreement on that development plan, the Infrastructure and Environment Committee has tabled additional proposals, namely two conclusions, the content of which can also be read in the review of the amendments on page 4. I ask if anyone wants to discuss these two additional conclusions. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u183	Thank you very much. Of course, I find such conclusions to be completely irrelevant and meaningless, as it would normally be normal for the National Assembly to reject and impose a proposal for an annual road map drawn up by the Government in contravention of the national highway construction programme on the government to prepare it in accordance with the national programme. If that were not possible, the National Assembly would instruct the Government to first prepare a change to the national programme, only then to propose the development and maintenance of motorways for this part. However, because of course I do not know which was - as Mr Kebrič had previously wondered - when this proposal for development was being prepared, I do not know of course where the ministers of the DeSus Party were, but I do not fully care where individual ministers were. The fact is that in early April, when it comes with an annual plan which is contrary to the national programme, of course, it violates the national programme in one way or another, and of course is delaying all logical hands. That other conclusion will be written to itself, just as many have. I therefore find these two additional decisions irrelevant and, in fact, mocking the government of the National Assembly; the committee, of course, the committee itself and such conclusions will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss both decisions again, I conclude and come to a decision, first of all on the proposal for an additional decision under order number 1. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It's 42 votes against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that an additional decision is adopted below 1. We also decide on the decision under 2. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. There's 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the decision under order number 2 has also been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government, the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Director very much for their cooperation. Representatives of the secretariat also thank you very much. And we're moving on to 31. Period of the day - it's on a defensive proposal for a law on the preparation of local laws - a quick procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by the representative of the Magi. Janez Kramberger. Does the bill's proposer want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u185	Colleagues and colleagues! This is a very short proposal for a law amending the law on local elections. I introduced this law into the national assembly procedure four years ago. And finally, it's his turn, and it's a little late today. With regard to the opinion I have read from my mother's working body, I feel that this law is not well written, but I will nevertheless use a few words myself as a proponent in support of this law. Look, it's a very serious matter. In fact, in the municipalities in which they are elected to the municipal councils by a proportional system - I will finish immediately, my colleagues only so much to say [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u186	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u187	Well, I don't usually have a long debate and I won't have one this time either. In fact, it is the disproportionate representation of the saints in the municipal councils. I will simply say that the electoral units are made up of two local communities and later, after the elections, representatives in the municipal council are from only one local community. And then there's questions and there's all kinds of disagreements. Among other things, the appearance of such a large number of congregations to form congregations as we had at one of the previous meetings when we decided to do so. So with this proposal, if we allowed one constituency to count three saints, not five, as is now the case under article 22 of the Act, we would have made this possible. I think it's also a matter of the government's good will. The government could have listened to this proposal a little bit more, otherwise it does not oppose, in writing it does not oppose, but verbally quite strongly. That's what I have to say. And this proposal, which is therefore serious and in those areas where these problems occur, are major problems This is also evident from the support of congregations that have also supported this law in writing. And my colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to ask you to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u188	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. President, Mr. Max Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u189	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Since it is a law proposed by the proposer or proposed by a rapid procedure and so decided by the National Assembly, at the following meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, we considered this law and, of course, we had to wait first for the deadline set by the President of the National Assembly as the time limit for the municipalities to submit their comments. That was March 12th. Thus, the Committee took note of the opinion of the municipalities before continuing its consideration. I must say, after most of the congregation, they support the goals of the law. Nor did the Government's representative object to the changes in the law, but she considered that the proposed change was such that a thorough examination of the current proposal of the law would be necessary. For the result itself cannot be verified before this study is done. The secretariat also said that it had no comments in view of its tasks, but pointed out that there were some open substantive issues related to the entire electoral system in local communities regarding the proposed solution. In particular, I think it is necessary to inform Members and Members of Parliament of the opinion of the Secretary of the Republic of Elections - because I will speak more out loud, but it will be okay - with the opinion of the Secretary of the Republic Election Commission, who pointed out that they receive comments, particularly from the municipalities - that is, 48 municipalities of Slovenians, which are composed of strong local centres of dentistry. And there it is estimated that the current electoral system does not allow sufficient dispersion of the composition of the municipal councils and, of course, these municipalities want and urge better regulation of this issue. However, the Secretary pointed out that if we followed the bill, this would also mean that at least 33% of voters would be needed to obtain a direct mandate in the electoral unit. This means, of course, that the remainder of electoral votes would determine the area from which individual saints would come, and in this way, in fact, move away from the desired goal. He also suggested a few options that would be acceptable - of course, this is: one would be to establish either a parallel system that would allow such municipalities - not all of them, of course - to have half the saints come in procedural and half-in-majority and, of course, in this way, also ensure that the saints are from different places in a particular congregation. In most cases, I have to say that the debaters have attracted the opinion of the Secretary of the Republic Election Commission and that is why the proposal for a decision proposed - this is that the law is the appropriate basis for the second reading - has not been adopted. He was supported only by three "yes" votes and seven "against". The Committee therefore proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a decision not to adopt a proposal for a law amending the law on local elections after the first hearing has been completed in the framework of the rapid procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Not at all.]] I give my word to Members and Members, I have not received written applications for the debate, and therefore the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Anybody want to talk? Mr Kramberger, may I help you?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u191	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Apparently there's not much interest in this marriage, but, regardless, colleagues and colleagues, that's the problem. This is a problem that occurs in the congregations that I mentioned earlier. And to go, this law of ours - that is, that this proposal of my law goes just past us and the government law that is in the process does not solve it; that is a serious question. And after four years of saying that the matter needs to be carefully considered, this is not serious. If we haven't been able to think about it so far, then I don't believe how it's going to be when we get to the municipal elections. With all due respect to Mr Mark Golobič, Secretary of the Republic Election Commission, who was on the Committee on Internal Policy and has also outlined the fundamental issue in the sense that this is a problem. On the other hand, he had purely - in fact - talked about political solutions in matters that the government must talk about and that we must talk about. This question of whether the direct mandate requires 33% or 20% of the vote, this is not the problem of the secretary, this is our problem, this is the problem of the national assembly and the government. And I suggest that - well, the elections are at the door, and if we approach this problem, we will have the next elections, and this will continue and we will continue to face divisions of congregations and dissatisfaction in individual municipalities and municipal councils. See, only with regard to those 12 or how many congregations responded to the initiative of the president of the National Assembly: all of them even spoke with examples or cited cases in support of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u193	Thank you for your word. I think the Kramberger fellow's proposal is in place. In fact, the fact is that in all those municipalities - and this is the majority of Slovene municipalities - where local elections are held for the municipal council or for the municipal council under a proportional electoral system and that most of those municipalities that have responded to the question of the national assembly on this law have agreed to this initiative of this bill - is quite appropriate. In fact, the fact is that it is still particularly important at local level to ensure the highest possible uniform representation in the municipal council or city council. And my colleague Kramberger's proposal goes first and foremost this way. I am convinced that it is also possible to grant mandates by lowering this threshold to three councillors for a single constituency. But I think there's a bigger other problem, that there's been too little willingness to actually get into the problem that is and to get rid of it. From this point of view, I will also vote against the position of the parent working body, because I am sure that the problem can be solved and that we will solve it, in particular, in order to ensure that it is better represented evenly by elected saints for every congregation that would, of course, decide to form its constituencies - more fragmented than it has. I think this is more beneficial than it is to the development of the congregations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lavrinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u195	Thank you very much. Mr Dove is not here, so I think it's right for someone to say what was really said there. It was not a political discussion, but a professional warning that if we adopt this law, it would mean that the first division of votes will be very few who will be elected. This means a departure from what is actually intended to be achieved by this law, which is a better dispersion of the saints, of course, territorially, in the entire area of the congregation. And that's the problem. But how they share in the second round, you know, the remains. And because we don't have that, I'm going to say, protect as we have it, let's say, at the level of the country, when these voices are divided so that they have the advantage of an electoral unit there until they're completed, it's -- I'll say -- this thing is actually a retreat back, it would literally mean that we pull those who believe in this law now, into these changes to pull them by the nose, because the result could be completely the opposite. That's why my husband warned me about these things, and we attracted him. And since there is already a government proposal for a law that does not cover it, but still gives the government the opportunity to change the text by the beginning of the hearing or replace it with a new one - and this is known to a fellow member of the Slovenian People's Party's Group - there are serious debates on how to solve this problem. It was at lunch today that I heard about another better solution from Mr Slavko Gabra. I think: where there is will, there is a way, but let us not follow the rule: the path to hell is pressed for good purpose.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please. Then Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u197	Thank you for your word. I know of one who was starving, and his horse died, and then he said, "What a shame, but I had so many good solutions." I think it's a shame to put this thing away with our left hand. We have, in fact, debated in our Group of Members and said that we will support this proposal. And even today, because it's a very small change, we specifically advertised. We simply said: we will vote in favour of this proposal because we understand this as an offer, not as a binding criterion that municipalities must go to smaller units. But wherever they want, they make smaller electoral units. While the congregation that responded is not the congregation of Ormož, I am sure that this would be very appropriate for our congregation, since each local community could almost be its own constituency. And this is what the inhabitants want the local community to have their own constituency. I don't really understand this argument of 33%. This criterion, I don't know, because if there's a constituency with three candidates, there's either three of them out there: either directly or from the remains. Three mandates come to that constituency; if this is six, six are elected. I don't know what you're talking about, but I don't understand this argument. Maybe if you explain it a little bit more precisely, what it's really about. Because if there's three, then there's 33%, if there's five of them in the electoral unit, it's 20% for election and so on. We will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lavrinc, then debate, sir. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u199	"Oh, holy forgiveness," my colleague Jerovšek would say. But, Mr. Sok, this isn't about the majority system. It's a proportional system. "Dont" has to be used and so on. Well, things aren't as simple as you are now. I didn't want them either. It's simply that if we go to that, you have 33% to obtain a direct mandate. And then everything else is shared in the second round. What does that mean? They can come from there, but they can't. And you didn't do anything. That's the problem. And that is why we have suggested that this matter be examined, so that with the help of experts involved in electoral systems, we come up with a good solution and, let's say, one part, as has been said, one part of the proportional and the other part, let's say, by means of a majority or simply a provision that will allow what we have at the national level, and we also have this problem solved. It's just that now, if we reduce this -- the only thing that's right and what's right is what you said, that we're just fixing the law and giving the municipalities the opportunity to, I'll say, decide on it. It's just actually a "stiff" then, in that case, because everyone will think that now it's so that it's solved. That's not true!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u201	Well, that's so easy, and you understand me Lavrinz can't even get rid of me. I will tell you on a practical case: we have 4 constituencies in our congregation. After two local communities, they make up an electoral unit and we love 6 saints in the municipal council. What if we said the smallest electoral unit could have three, and these two local communities could be divided into two constituencies, and we wouldn't vote six, but every three. This would ensure in advance that every local community in the congregation would have three saints. Mr. Lavrinc, that's true, if so. But if that's not true, then you don't know the electoral systems and I don't want to report any "forgive me."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Look, I don't understand the last debate. If 24 members of the municipal council are elected to the municipal council and it is said that it is elected in eight constituency units of three saints from each constituency, three are elected. That's right. However, this may be wrong in the event that the electoral areas are of different size, that in one election 6, in the other. 3. That's very wrong. However, that electoral areas should be shaped in accordance with the aspirations - in the promenade - of "political parties", which dominate the centres and which already fundamentally oppose the formation of a large number of electoral units, is a fact and therefore I understand and understand this bill proposed by Mr Kramberger, which I also support or will vote against the decisions of the home working body. Why are we looking for something we already have? In fact, direct elections in the municipal council guarantee absolute representation. And an even better solution would be towards the establishment of a majority electoral system for the election of members of the municipal council. It would be best to, in implementing and implementing the proportional system, cover the original sin of centralisation, both locally and nationally. All of these congregations, which have made proposals and comments to this electoral law, have supported my claim to some extent. And even more confident, if you look at how electoral units are formed, how are electoral units formed? The majority of cases do not take into account the possibility of forming electoral areas with at least five, as the law now allows, with at least five elected members of the municipal council in the electoral area. I think there should be something that needs to be done here. It is also true that there are proposals for the distribution of municipalities due to a deficit in the availability or use of budgetary resources due to a defect resulting from the non-representation of individual areas in the municipal world. And which in the final stage is the result of a flawed proportional system for the election of members of the municipal council. Therefore, I think that it is imperative to do so here in four years' time, if we did so, I am sure we would not be facing a flood of proposals for new municipalities here, because the areas, because the local communities would see their potential, their development, their part of the budget money from the municipal budget. Thus, for political and centralistic reasons, they do not see this. They can't see that! I will not say "party" as Mr Trophynik, who knows me very well about local self-government, has corrected me, but the fact is that this proportional electoral system, which is yet to be achieved in the election of members of the municipal council, is not intended for itself, but is also forced for such or other reasons. And it tends to go to larger polling grounds. The larger constituencies, however, are so made that they cover a part of the city or a densely populated area of the congregation, and usually even the countryside along with it, which you will see and see how wrong that is. The relation to this law - I think it also clearly expresses the attitude of this national assembly towards rural development. When we get to that point, we stop. Unfortunately, it's true. Unfortunately, it's a reality. This shows the attitude towards rural development, showing the attitude towards equitable development in our country. I think the bill should be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. I would warn and ask the following questions at the same time. In the area I represent or, where I have been elected, we have two municipalities with four constituencies, and under this Article 22, which is changing, we would elect five saints by this system, and now the municipalities have 18 members of the municipal council. Does this mean an automatic increase in the number of members of the municipal council, a change in the statutes, more costs for the operation of this municipal council and so on? What is it like in this case, because small congregations, however, have electoral units - or, yes, and fewer members of the municipal council than this proportion would now bring. Thank you very much. Question to the proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Valentina, the number of congregational saints that a certain congregation has, that number is the responsibility of the congregation. At the time of its establishment, the National Assembly then determines the number of congregational councillors, and then the congregation can form any number of congregational councillors, but from 7 I think, up to 45. As far as this proposal is concerned, this is not necessary for the municipalities to form electoral units with three saints. But only one congregation that would find it beneficial to cover its premises will benefit from this legal option, and the other will not, as the law now provides that at least five are in the constituency and not all have. I think 45 municipalities have such constituencies. They may also have them so that the entire congregation can be one constituency. This is, of course, in the interest of some. But to cover the entire congregation’s premises, it is better if the matter is more fragmented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Gaber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u209	Look, I agree with the first part or the intent of the marriage. But I think that - and this would require a longer debate now that is not in place, this is not the place for this debate - the way we are going about this. It produces a nice number of problems and in fact produces almost necessarily illegal results of this type of election. Mr Soko and I quickly tried to show what such a result could bring in a specific case. For example, it can produce a result, even very likely, in which less than half of the electorate will have all seats from one of the so-called constituencies if we really use the means of distribution of cities that we use at the level of the national elections. For example, 42% of the electorate and electorate will pick up all the cities and 58% of the people will be unrepresented, unrepresented. I know I'm talking about a lot of flying now, so I suggest we not discuss it here now, because unfortunately, it's not that simple. I suggest something else. I know, they taught me briefly that if we reject the law, we cannot take a stand on what we will do in a law that deals with this subject in one way or another, and the government is already coming with it. However, we can make a commitment to settle this issue as much as possible in such a way as we can to meet the legitimate intentions of colleague Kramberger. This should be - I think there is more than some arrangement here in this House than there can be, but it can be. I think that it is possible to draw up a system that comes close to intensions, while smaller than electoral boundaries, is worse with such solutions and they are less than limited, of course, the ability to rescue cannot be attributed. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Kramereger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u211	Yeah, that's right. If we reject the law, we cannot take a supplementary decision [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u212	I apologize, this interpretation of the Rules of Procedure is not correct. Under the additional decision, either by rejecting or adopting a proposal for a law or by adopting it, it is possible to adopt it because it is a completely special matter that does not affect the content of the law. Thus, even if we adopt such a decision as proposed by the mother's working body, the proposal for an additional decision is absolutely on the ground and, if you prepare it, it must be addressed and decided by the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u213	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The second problem is that the proposed law proposed by the government is proposed after a reduced procedure. Is that right? This is said, but it will be necessary for the government to include this or propose a change of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss this anymore, I think I can conclude the general debate, and we are moving on to a debate and a vote on the decision of the parent working body. I am putting to the debate the decision of my mother's working body, which reads: "Proposal of a law amending the law on local elections, the first hearing shall not be adopted." Anybody want a word? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. The vote was 33 to 16. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Proposal for an additional decision [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u215	Madam Vice-President, I propose that we define ourselves until an additional decision, which reads: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia imposes on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within the framework of the proposal for a law amending the law on local elections, the issue of elections to the municipal council, to examine and also to prepare concrete solutions."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Allow me, Mr. Podobnik. The National Assembly is proposing to the government, thank you very much. I propose an additional decision as presented by Mr Podobnik, I am putting to the debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u217	I would suggest that this decision should be supplemented in this direction by the government examining solutions that will lead to greater representation of individual areas of the congregation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-04-02-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u218	Thank you very much. The proposer agrees with the addition. Your Honor, may I conclude that you are authorizing the services to draw up a proposal for an additional decision? Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the proposal for an additional decision. We're voting. 49 Members and Members are present. It's 42 votes against 7. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed additional decision has been adopted. Please, just one more minute. We have yet another decision to make. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I thank the representatives of the government and the secretariat very much. However, I note that the following items of the agenda remain unfinished: paragraphs 10, 11, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 28, 29 and 30. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that those points be postponed to one of the following meetings of the Assembly. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the representatives of the groups of Members may present their position. However, the debate of Members is not possible. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore conclude the debate and vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 47 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude the 14th regular meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you all very much and good-bye.
