ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u1	I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly. We'll continue with the 13th adjourned session. We still have a lot of responsibilities, both with this agenda item, item 1.a, as well as with the broad agenda of the 13th session. Can I ask the technical services if they come to the hall? Semafor, the display in the hall doesn't work to find out what the reason is. [[...]] I also ask the technical services if they tell me whether the display will be available. Without him, we'll probably have a hard time making decisions today. Dear colleagues and colleagues! To understand that it will take 15 minutes to wait for the computer to reset and that we will be able to determine the choice of voting on the display. 15 minutes will have to wait. I suggest we start at 10.25 a.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u2	I think there's nothing wrong with the computer right now and that, as I've predicted, we'll continue our work at exactly 10.25 a.m. We can't start before, because it would be unfair for those who took my first information definitively. At 10.25 a.m., the National Assembly will continue its work by voting on the basis of a review of the amendments you received on the bench. I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. This is an important or sensitive vote, so it is right that no one would think we started too quickly and at 10.25 a.m. we will continue to work. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats. We will begin the continuation of the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. Before I ask you to be present, I will inform you of who is absent today. These are colleagues and colleagues: Weber, Delak, Jakič, Lavrinc, Merlo, Terčon, Zalokar Orazem, Peterle, Jerovšek, Beuerman, Kramberger, Battelli, Fabjan, Kangler, Brejc, Barovic, Rupar, Bernik and Pucko. Now, please insert the cards into the voting devices. Please, just in case, let each of you see if his lights are on when he inserts the card. Please, if you're so kind. Are there any problems with the ballots? I see you don't. I suggest we find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. 55 present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. I also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to continue today's work, whom I welcome very much. Today's continuation of the 13th session will begin with the consideration of the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the continuation of the procedure under Articles 13 and 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and for the Identification of Their Areas.Then the assembly will move on to the treatment of 1.b of the item, this is the proposal for the final accounts of the Republic of Slovenia for 1998 and in order to proceed further. We're moving to It's broken down by 1st and 1st of the day. You have before you, colleagues and colleagues, a review of the amendments. Before that, I will ask if the representative of the SLS Group, Comrade Podobnik, who requested a recess yesterday, wants a word? [[He does.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u3	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to clarify the position of the Group of Members. Yesterday, we were confident that, following a decision by the National Assembly that the three municipalities met the conditions for the referendum, we would also take this into account in the amendments to the proposal for a decision to call for a referendum. Somehow, even in our dreams, we could not imagine that the national assembly would change that first decision. When we were surprised to learn that the National Assembly had done so, before deciding on the referendum area for the new Dobova municipality, I asked for a break. In the Group of Members, we looked primarily at the procedure from four years ago, when it was different than it is now. Now we've added another step to the procedure, another security guard. In the event that it is found by chance that the majority in the National Assembly will find that a municipality meets the conditions for a referendum area, it is now necessary, on the basis of this procedure, to obtain this majority once again at the amendment when a decision on the referendum zones is voted on. However, we would like to explain why such a change is taking place. This is a major change, another step, another guard more. In parliamentary democracy, the procedure is in fact the key to everything. There's been an interesting precedent here. In no way would I like to pour oil on fire and continue with any political debates. I would just like a correct answer to this question, a very correct answer. You know, we're not satisfied with the answer, "and the Constitutional Court will do what we didn't do." This is not the response of the National Assembly. Some of the staff of the National Assembly, which I greatly appreciate, have turned to me in the past hours and this has also told me that the procedure is different. I was so subtlely unaware of this procedure, and only later, when I studied this difference during the evenings, was I surprised. On behalf of the President of the National Assembly and the Secretariat, I would ask that they explain this to us, from responsibility to Bizellski, Dobova and Šmartny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u4	The procedure shall be carried out in accordance with a proposal formulated by the parent working body. Then anyone could open up the matter of procedure on their home work body. I will, however, ask the secretary of the Secretariat whether she wishes to clarify any of the things raised by the question of the principle of Podobnik. Mrs. Beatenchev, please. Then he'll have the word of a fellow magician. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u5	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. In fact, the Secretariat is only aware of the fact that this procedure has been carried out in the light of the Government's proposals, as it has been given, and of the legal order where the decision is first mentioned in Article 13 and the decree referred to in Article 14 is mentioned. Since the main substance was found in the decision proposed by the parent working body, it followed the legal order, which was indeed different from the one before when the main substance was in the decision on the call for a referendum for the establishment of municipalities and the identification of their areas. This has not been a particular concern of the Secretariat, since, in the final stage of the procedure, it is actually merely a consultative event. In fact, this issue has not been particularly raised and has not been particularly open until now. From this point of view, however, I would only say that it is certainly - and we have also said - to the questions of Members - that the applications submitted and the definitions of the national assembly to them should be addressed as a whole. This is said to be consistent and must be decided on all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u6	A colleague of mags. Vizjak, if you have a procedural, I can give you my word, otherwise not. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u7	Thank you very much. I must say that in the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, when amendments were tabled, together with colleagues from Nova Slovenije, we also held many consultations on how to amend and capture the consistency of these proposals. I must say that just before yesterday's decision, there was quite a lot of confusion about this and we invented one "uniquem", one "uniquem" procedurally, that we decide first whether someone meets the conditions or not, that is what I say about the substantive issues, and then we decide once again on the logical consequences of a substantive decision - that is, in a call where we find that they are, of course, meeting or that the decision of the State Assembly is different from that of the government. Of course, it would be logical for us to sign a referendum. Here I want to say that there has been a lot of confusion and this is not a single solution and it is a solution as proposed. However, it seems to me that it is completely illogical, this way of deciding a majority in the National Assembly, to agree on one side of the content and reject it by procedure. This is completely illogical and incredible. There's something else I'd like to point out. Now we will appear in a non-conformity and I expect, and here I also ask the secretariat, the matter has become unconstant in the case of Bisellski. We have found that this proposal meets the conditions or legal conditions, because we have voted on the government's opinion and on the other hand we have not called for a referendum. So what happens now? It is said that the story of Bisellian is probably not yet completed and will probably have to follow some harmonisation amendment, but I warn you, this matter is out-out, it is called black-and-white, yes or no, there is no gray, the harmonisation amendment will not compromise. I would therefore like to ask here, first of all procedurally, before further decisions, this seems to me a very important question of how the procedural matter will proceed. What will the secretariat, which is responsible for finding a discrepancy and proposing to the proposers the preparation of the harmonisation amendment, what will it do in the case of Bisellian, and what it will do in the case of Dobova and Šmartno, should this story be repeated in further votes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Your question, the warning is very timely. When the National Assembly adopted this last decision before the holiday yesterday, it was clear to me that it was necessary to consult on how the National Assembly would lead the procedure forward. I would now ask the secretary from the Secretariat to give an opinion to the secretariat on how the state should conduct the procedure in view of the non-coherence that we will formally identify when we are done with the decision on the amendments. Since the question has been raised, it is appropriate, I propose that we also get the answer now. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The Secretariat never proposes a solution. He's just finding out about the discrepancies. We do not have a defined business procedure for this procedure at all. We make reasonable use of the 229th Article to deal with acts in a single-phase procedure where the third treatment is taken into account, the submission of amendments, the vote on the act in its entirety. There is also no procedure for the non-compliance of these two acts, which must be complete and co-dependent. In this case, too, from the point of view of the Secretariat, I cannot propose any other than the use of some appropriate sense or analogy. However, how coordination will then be carried out is, of course, a substantive matter to be considered by those who, if the assembly decides to apply analogy in this part of the process, may propose harmonisation amendments and a council decision on them. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u10	This will also be my proposal for the State Assembly, on a proposal from the government, to decide on the harmonisation amendment. There can be no broad discussion about this. Question, procedural? Please, Comrade Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u11	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to ask the law office, if I understand correctly, to interpret its role as someone who needs to draw attention to certain problems that may arise. I would like to ask - just for a better understanding of the whole situation we are in - if the law enforcement service can explain, if the procedure we have laid down is clearly different than it did four years ago in this particular case or in a similar case, if this national assembly is even aware of such a procedure as it was prepared for this meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u12	This question has already been answered. This question has already been answered by the Madam Secretary. Do you want to repeat your statement? [[No, no, ……]] This question was answered. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u13	I would like to clarify that there would be no problem with the procedure after we know exactly the way to decide on this item on the agenda. If there are more questions, we will take time to consult at the level of the leaders of the parliamentary groups and the secretariat. If we can now clear up this issue early enough, we will continue the discussion. First of all, Comrade Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u14	Thank you, Mr. President. I just want to find a way out of this, and I want to propose a solution, and I want to keep it simple. The experience is that when this happens, such a solution is easier to find in a narrow circle than on a prey. I do not have the content of the law before me, but I think that Article 13 of the Law is, therefore, the law establishing the congregations is clear and does not allow for duality. When the National Assembly finds that the congregation meets the conditions, there is no possible step in between, and we are likely to have to conclude in this discussion that we have made a mistake here. There's no doubles. This is an interpretation of those who have dealt with this issue in recent years. I do not know the case in these eight years to find out that a congregation meets the conditions and then does not sign a referendum. I don't know him. That's why we're gonna have to go this way. Or is this some news now that we're going to go with the harmonisation amendment that's going to figure it out? That's the way, too. But that's the only way. The rest will be the third, fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh reading, where the referendum area will not be voted. I'm sure in the coming months we'll be going to all these referendums, Biseljska, Dobova and Šmartno. And for the city councils, and for those changes. These referenda will be, that's my opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u15	If Dr Bayuk's colleague doesn't mind, I would suggest that we suspend the work so far, that we meet with the leaders of the parliamentary groups and study the situation with the secretariat and inform the assembly of the continuation of the work. Please, Dr. Bayuk. Just procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm sorry, if I heard you correctly, my question would already be answered. I'm sorry. I didn't get it. Please, if the law enforcement department can repeat the answer, and especially on the basis of what Comrade Podobnik just said, the eight-year-old doesn't remember any such case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u17	See, the question was whether today we are deciding on a different procedure than four years ago, as mentioned by colleague Podobnik. Madam Secretary, can you answer this question again?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u18	There is no specific procedure for this procedure in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. It wasn't in 1994, it wasn't in 1998. Therefore, the National Assembly made sense to apply the provisions applicable to similar acts. In 1998, the difference was that the assembly, as well as now, although the content of this other act, first addressed that act which was the most extensive. In 1998, this was a decree on the call for referendums. The decision was decided and the assembly also decided on the decision. It was just a different sequence. This time, however, the assembly decided first on a decision which was more extensive and, in fact, the decree came rather than a more extensive act to be dealt with subsequently. This was also somehow followed, which was also one of the additional arguments, the law on the procedure for setting up municipalities, when it first referred to the decision in Article 13 and then to the decree in Article 14. In this respect, these arguments led to the application of a different sequence of treatment of both acts than in 1998. However, there has always been a vote on both.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u19	I interrupt this agenda item and the 13th session. I invite all leaders of the parliamentary groups to come to the consultation, along with the leadership, in room 217 for informal consultation Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u20	Procedurally, please. Thank you very much, Mr. President. Before we respond to your invitation, I suggest that the New Slovenia Group should have a consultation. I'm asking for half an hour's rest for consultation. Then there shall be a meeting of the leaders of the groups of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u21	Half an hour for consultation in the parliamentary group. At 11:15 a.m., we'll meet at 217 for an informal consultation. Then we will inform you of the continuation of the sitting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u22	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm informing you that the National Assembly will continue its work at 12:00.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u23	Colleagues and colleagues! Please come to the hall. We'll keep working. I would like to inform you of what we have discussed with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, how the procedure will proceed. Please come to the hall. I'll take a look at the presence. Please see if your cards are inserted, or a burning light, so there will be no comments later on the vote. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the end of agenda item 1a at the 13th meeting of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you how the procedure will proceed, after consultation with the leaders of the groups of Members. We will first decide on the amendments to the motion for a decree, and finally we will decide on the decision on our own. If the decision is not harmonised, the government will draw up a harmonisation amendment to be decided by the national assembly; if this harmonisation amendment is not adopted, such a harmonisation amendment will have to prepare the home labour body at the end of the process. So now we're going to make a decision until the end. We will first decide on the proposal for a new a. And point is, it's Dobova. I suggest we make a decision. Please, if we vote. A proposal for a new a. And the point is, Dobova. We're voting. 58 present, 21 for, 34 versus. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. Striking in Lithia, for a new b. And point - amendment to the amendment of the two parliamentary groups. Anybody want a word? Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u24	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will support this amendment to the amendment. In doing so, I would like to read the provision of Article 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities: "If the National Assembly finds that they are satisfied with the Constitution and the law laid down the conditions for the establishment of the municipality," in this case, the National Assembly has determined this three times, in three cases, "or for the change of areas, to establish an area where a referendum is held to determine the will of the inhabitants and to sign a referendum." The National Assembly is obliged to do so. So, I'm voting for this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We decide on the amendment to the amendment for a new B.I. We're voting. That's Lithia's shit. 62 present. 60 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] We decide on the amendment under order number two. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Now we're voting on an amendment. We're talking about an amendment to an amendment earlier. We're voting. Still charming with Lithia. 63 present. 61 for, no one against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] On page 3 of your review you have a proposal for a new c. And point, these are the Autumns. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. 54 present. 25 for, 28 for. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 28.]] He wasn't accepted. For a new d. And point number, that's Radovljica. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We're voting. 59 present. 28 for, 29 for. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 29.]] Not accepted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The motion for a resolution is proposed to vote in the referendum on Sunday, 24 March 2002. In point III. The proposal for a decree is proposed to consider 23 February 2002 for the day of the invitation to tender to begin the deadlines for the tasks necessary to carry out the referendum. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u26	Mr President, with regard to these deadlines, I would like to point out to the National Assembly that these are relevant deadlines only if the proposal for a decree on the call for referenda is adopted today. However, if this does not happen, the deadlines will have to change accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u27	So if we make a decision today, these deadlines will be valid and the matter will be published in the Official Journal today. However, if the National Assembly does not decide today, this will be April 7th, 2002. Can you confirm that?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u28	According to our calculations, the date on which the referendum takes place will be counted 7 April. With regard to the day when it begins to run, that is to say, which is considered to be the start of referendums, it will be necessary to set a date which will come after the publication of the act and, of course, will still be in accordance with the deadlines to be due, probably the next day following the publication. And I can't think of that right now, because on the day of the final reception, we're going to say it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u29	Okay. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I will support this solution that is proposed. I would also like to draw attention to the possibility of a constitutional court entering our decision in accordance with the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u31	Kolga Podobnik, can you rephrase the proposal. Are you not modifying the text of the proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u32	No, no, no.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u33	Then it's okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u34	But I have pointed out this because I have the impression that we will meet again on these issues in this place in a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u35	Because the Constitutional Court is going to hold down decisions or something. I understand that. I wanted to ask you if you proposed an amendment to the text. You didn't, so we decide on this text. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will decide on this proposal, of course with a reasonable warning that the date will be taken into account, which will be the appropriate date from the adoption of these decisions. I put this proposal to the vote. I'm calling off the vote. I asked if anyone else wanted a word. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u36	I don't know the date with which the decree starts to work. You said this was a February 23rd or 22, if I'm not mistaken. Now I don't know what this deadline is. On the part of the Secretariat, however, it has been warned that this cannot be the case, but that it is the time when this decision will also be finally adopted, if I have understood correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u37	The proposal is as follows: in point II. The motion for a decree is proposed for a vote and a referendum to be held on Sunday, 24 March 2002. In point III. The proposal for a decree is proposed to take effect on the day of the invitation to tender, with which the deadlines for the tasks necessary to carry out the referendum shall be counted on 23 February 2002. This is where we received the secretary's warnings. Can you repeat it loud and clear, please? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u38	I would like to point out to the National Assembly that these deadlines are only relevant if the proposal for a decision on the call for referenda is finally adopted today, as it will then be published today that tomorrow the deadlines for referendums may begin. Otherwise, the deadlines, including the date of the referendum, should be adapted to the final adoption of the proposal for this Decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u39	That's right. Any other questions about that? [[No, no, ……]] Then we can decide on this proposal. Please identify yourself by the proposal. 58 present. 51 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have an amendment to the title of the motion for a decree. The footnote states that the decision is a separate act adopted by the National Assembly under Article 13 and that the decree is a separate act adopted by the National Assembly under Article 14 and that it is therefore legally impossible to merge the two acts under the same title. That's a warning. As a result of this amendment, I cannot put to the vote. I will now put to the vote, in accordance with the procedure, a full decision. Anybody want a word before that? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u40	Thank you. Mr President, will you determine if the decision is harmonised?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u41	When the decision is taken, I will ask the secretariat if it is coordinated.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u42	No, no, no. I think we need to find out first. As soon as the ruling is adopted, the procedure will be closed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u43	Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u44	Even now, of course, it is clear that the decision is not in line with the previous decision taken by the assembly by a decision. These two acts must be coordinated. However, as I will say, of course, the process of coordination of the leaders of the groups has also been partly agreed upon. However, the procedure is designed to adopt both acts first and then to establish consistency between them. However, if the assembly so decides, but then, I have already stressed, of course, that these applications should be seen as a whole which is decided by two compatible acts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u45	Look, if we're in a situation of disharmony, it's clear to all of us. Decisions must now be taken in such a way as to eliminate this mismatch. As President, I insist that things run in such a way that there will be no confusion in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Visjak. If we have to, we'll consult again. Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I would point out to this national assembly something, namely that we have voted in full and this is a document that has been adopted. On the other hand, we have not yet voted in full and this is a document which has not been adopted. We have now found that Article 14 has been violated by the National Assembly in its decision on one amendment to this decree. Despite the clearly established positions, he did not do something that he should have done in accordance with the provisions of the law, and it seems to me that there is no disagreement between the two documents, but that the decision is inconsistent with the decision taken. It seems to me that the original problem is that - and I should have entered a different principle here, but not that we should now fully adopt this decision and then find out that the two documents adopted are inconsistent. One document has been adopted, and I think it is an opportunity and an opportunity to align this document, which we now wish to adopt, with the previous document.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u47	I'm asking for a five-minute break to consult with the professional services.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u48	In room 217 consultation of heads of parliamentary groups, leadership of the National Assembly and secretariat. I'm going to suggest we end the session for today. However, I would like to do so by deciding all my colleagues and colleagues. 13.20. I invite colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall to continue with the interrupted 1st item of our 13th regular session. Colleagues and colleagues! I have to wait a few more minutes for correctness. Now it's time. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. [[52 present.]] The National Assembly is adjourned. May I have your attention, please? As you have noted, we have consulted several times today with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. This was because it was necessary to deal with the issues related to the procedure in a way that did not raise any suspicion of the procedure. Political decisions are in the hands of Members and Members. This is not the case with the President-in-Office. Here I propose in this place, after the last consultation, that we suspend today's meeting. I think that it is necessary to examine in detail how things should be carried forward so that there are no objections to the procedure alone. Let me say today if you decide not to interrupt the meeting and that we will continue to work, that in my decision I will rely on the position of the Secretariat as it will be today, as it will be on Tuesday, if we continue. That's what I'm going to do when I'm in session. However, I think it would be useful - this is my assessment - to interrupt today, depending on the hour. It's 13.22. I don't think we can close the agenda today. And I would take a few days to think about things so that we could continue normally on Tuesday. I'd like to propose that we adjourn today. This is my procedural proposal, colleague Sok. We will decide first, and then, if there is a different political will, we will decide about others. Do you have a question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u49	Since I was one of those Members that I proposed not to make such a quick decision about this point, I would ask you, does it still make sense for you to put this on the agenda?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u50	Absolutely. It is good that we have decided to place a point at the beginning of the 13th meeting of the agenda, because I imagine that there could be similar complications if this point were even more difficult to catch at the end of the agenda and the deadline for calls for possible referendums in this respect. My procedural proposal is to suspend the meeting of the National Assembly for today. Please make up your mind. 59 present. Twenty-six for, like, 30. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 30.]] You've decided to proceed. I have to take a few minutes to consult the secretariat. Please Secretary of the Secretariat, Secretary General. I'm breaking up in 10 minutes until 1:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u51	I'm detecting a presence. We decided that the National Assembly would continue its work. I've done my own work. We can proceed. I invite Members and Members, I also invite the secretary of the secretariat to come to the Chamber. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. 53 present; the National Assembly is adjourned. I have already told you that I will lead the procedure, as the Secretariat will advise me, and that I will base my decision solely on his opinion and position. I ask the secretary to tell us when, therefore, we find non-compliance - after or before the vote on the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u52	Mr President, thank you for the floor. The secretariat has always stressed that it understands this procedure as a whole. From this point of view, it is necessary to decide on all the roles that have been properly and in good time before the national assembly. From this point of view, each of these acts is part of the whole. In our view, it is only after the two acts have been adopted that there is a discrepancy between the two acts adopted and not within the scope of each act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u53	I therefore understand that we continue with the procedure and vote on the decision. Anybody want a word before that? Want a colleague of mine? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Even if some people wish I hadn't answered, I will, because there is a need to make my views known in Parliament. I must admit that I am in a special situation when voting on this decision. That's my personal opinion. My personal opinion is that the content of this decree is contrary to the applicable article of the law, i.e. that the procedure or that some of the solutions in this decree are such as to refer to certain illegalities in the procedure itself. That's my personal opinion. Secondly, it is not the Slovenian people's party or its leader who is responsible for the complications at this point of the agenda. With all benevolence, it could be concluded that the competent committee has not worked too hard at this point of the agenda; that the material was not clear enough; that the procedure was too clear. It would have been a lot wiser to get a procedure on the table, not to read it yesterday or ever before, Dr. Brace read it quickly. Because the procedure in this procedure is extremely important. Of course, in our Group of Members, we do not want to prevent a decision and we will also participate in the decision-making process. I will personally support the decree, and I also expect the fellow Members of Parliament, but we expect an agreement to be fulfilled, which is not binding on the government to come with the harmonisation amendments. This procedure is not governed by the rules of procedure, nor by law, nor does any decision of the Constitutional Court mention it. We invented something new today. We therefore expect, in the hope and expectation that the agreement that the President of the National Assembly has tried twice today will be reached by the government with the harmonisation amendment to this decree or to a decision. Today we have found that we have actually discussed negative conclusions for two days, even though we have all discussed arguments for the municipality, not against, but now we hear interpretations, as if we have not formally established any referendum area to meet the conditions for the establishment of the municipality. I do not share this explanation because it is offensive to the National Assembly, but especially insulting to those who have listened and looked at our work in these four days. We expect the government to prepare a harmonisation amendment, in which it will record the establishment of the referendum area of Dobova, Bizeljska and for two municipal municipalities, Jesenice and Radovljica. Only in this way would the National Assembly be consistent and correct to all those who are following us in these days. I would have concluded with that thought. Some complications and the process must by no means show the impression that we have a negative attitude towards local self-government. In Slovenia, local self-government is always one such sensitive political issue. In my first performance on behalf of the parliamentary group, I also used the political criteria when I said that the establishment of municipalities is not the topic of a coalition and is not the topic of left-right relations in Slovenian politics, but is the topic of all of us. I therefore expect that we will also receive the harmonisation amendment on Tuesday. As I have already mentioned the procedure today, I would like to mention that the Constitutional Court decision which gave us a deadline of two months to harmonise the unconstitutional provision of Article 14 of the applicable law when we now decide, and the Constitutional Court has stated that the decisions of the National Assembly in previous proceedings - today we are in a preliminary procedure - to determine whether the constitutional and legal conditions for the establishment of a municipality or for the change of the territory of the municipality have a direct impact on the exercise of the constitutional right of citizens to local self-government. It depends on the decision of the National Assembly, but the inhabitants of a given area in the referendum will be asked for an opinion on the establishment of the municipality. Since I can assume that this debate and these decisions will also be an integral part of the matter, which, on the basis of this Constitutional Court decision, will also be decided by a Constitutional Court, which states that the National Assembly must very precisely determine the possibility when eligible applicants complain about this preliminary procedure, I would also like to state publicly that I do not agree with the interpretation that the so-called harmonisation amendment should be prepared after the decision has been adopted. I think it would be right for us to do this first. At first, I thought that the analogy was the adoption of the state budget, but now I think that the better analogy is the adoption of the law. In the third reading, we always find disagreement if we do this because we have had a vote error before we adopt the law in its entirety. But I will support the proposed decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u55	Anyone else want a word? A colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u56	I feel obliged to call back now, because even when I warned myself about it, I was in the beginning. Unfortunately, I have caused this, I see, three hours of fruitless debate that we are practically where we were then. I personally assess - once again I will say this - that the call for a referendum and the establishment of a referendum area is a logical consequence of the adoption of a decision establishing that a given area meets the legal conditions or does not meet them, so to speak, twice not. I believe that all the elements for a decision, whether in one area of the municipality or not, have been told, have been faced and decided on by amendments to the first document, that is to say the decision. We are now in the process of making this decision somehow, if it wasn't for the first time, but now we're going to fix it. That is why I am absolutely in the same position as colleague Podobnik, that this moment before the adoption of the complete decision, that this, I would say, a mistake is overturned and that the decision is consistent with the decision. That would be the logical way to go. However, because it is obvious that some in this National Assembly have made a mistake and now they want to correct this mistake and interfere with the decisions already made with it, it is now a search for a solution, a search for some procedural possibility of this happening. But it is only a matter of perceiving that we have already decided on a matter and that we want to make the same decision again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u57	Anyone else want a word? Please, mate, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I fully agree with the position presented by Comrade Vizjak of the Social Democratic Party. We have warned of the shortcomings of the whole procedure. It is true that we did not oppose this and voted formally. Every day we learn something new, we are new to these matters, and from now on I know how critical it will be to see proposals coming from our common services. The whole debate took place in such a way that it is clear to everyone that things have already been changed in some way and decided that the Government's proposal did not take into account the arguments and concrete options set out in the law in Article 13a and that it was strictly only to prevent this procedure from going forward. What we are hearing today is that it is only to seek a solution in procedural and such and other formal explanations that is totally unacceptable to us. The entire two-day debate has clearly shown that the National Assembly has debated how certain municipalities are, and not only those who have only received enough votes, meet at least some of the criteria identified as exceptions in Article 13a. That the exception is also fully foreseen and clearly laid down in the law, it is also obvious to everyone. What is happening right now, we do not agree with this again. This is only a consequence of why we are acting in the way we are acting, following such a rapid procedure that does not actually allow working bodies to operate on the basis of a serious assessment, as the government's proposals have come to the table at the working body meeting. Of course for members of the opposition. Maybe the other one had a chance and you could look at it in more detail. We are opposed to such procedures, and we are fully convinced that today the National Assembly must decide on the basis of what has already been adopted. And this is that in all these cases, where it has been so voted, the municipalities comply with the requirements of the law and that we must procedurally convene a referendum. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u59	Anyone else want a word? I guess not. We will vote on the motion for a decree in its entirety. We're voting. We are voting on the motion for a decree in its entirety. Peace in the hall! 46 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I'm asking the secretariat about coordination.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u60	Mr. President! It can now be formally concluded that the proposals of both acts are not harmonised and that they need to be harmonised accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u61	Both acts need to be harmonised. The coordinating amendment will be presented by the government. Mr. Minister, would you like a word on this?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u62	We're proposing a brief recess, five minutes to prepare a harmonisation amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u63	How much time do you need for the coordinating amendment? Ten minutes. It's still in time. 5 minutes to 2 p.m. The National Assembly will meet again. Until then, I'm taking a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u64	I am informed that the harmonisation amendment has already been tabled. We're waiting for the photocopies that will be available in front of you on the tables, and then we'll decide. Colleagues and colleagues, the decision or proposal of the government is before us. I'll give you three minutes to get my colleagues and colleagues to the gym. Well, I'll be there at 2.18 p.m. in three minutes. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u65	Since you are, as my colleague Partljič said, we all want people to say that we are as accurate as the National Assembly, it is said that we are right, and I suggest that we decide now at this hour. On the bench you received the Government of Slovenia's harmonisation amendments to the decision of the National Assembly under Article 13 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities and for the determination of their areas. Colleagues and colleagues, I'll first find out if there's a presence in the hall, and then we'll proceed with the procedure. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Then a colleague of mine has a procedural procedure. 47 present; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. Procedurally, colleague Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u66	Mr President, I have a procedural question. We have just received the harmonisation amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Given the content of the decision and the content of the decision, I can conclude that the proposed amendment in terms of the harmonisation amendment is wrong. The Government must take into account the decision taken by the National Assembly in the coordination amendment and, pursuant to Article 14 of the Law on the Procedure for the Establishment of Municipalities, allow it to call a referendum in the case of Bisellian and Dobo and, in the case of Jesenic and Radovljica, to call a referendum for the City Municipality. That's the first part. The Government did not take into account the new facts in accordance with the current rules of procedure on the work of the Government. When the content of the law or the solution itself changes and when the government comes with an amendment, it is most likely that the government will be given a mandate. I have consulted with all three ministers of the Slovenian People's Party who expect a correspondence meeting of the government, but of course that the government takes into account the decisions already taken, that is essential. So this is not an integral part, but I am gradually finding that the government has tabled the wrong harmonisation amendment and that it is the opinion of the Minister, not the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u67	You said you had a procedural procedural proposal. What kind of proposal was that?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u68	To find out that the amendment was misapplied.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u69	So, I'm procedurally determining that it's properly filed. I do not have the right to determine whether the government has actually decided, as proposed by the harmonisation amendments, this will be confirmed here by the authority of Minister Bohinc, and we can also ask him this question if he wants to answer it. I saw a few more years here, probably for procedural suggestions, first Dr. Bajuk, then Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Otherwise, I must say that I understand Comrade Sponik, but I am not surprised at what we have received on the table today, because this is not according to our assessment of the harmonisation amendment, but a clear violation of the decisions already taken by this National Assembly. On the basis of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, I would like to announce that we will not cooperate and that we will leave the Chamber. The right that the Rules of Procedure give us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u71	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u72	The obstruction is called yes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u73	This option, given by the Rules of Procedure, is taken into account and respected. A colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u74	Look. I would like to draw my attention to the same way my predecessors warned. Firstly, in the case of the present Brežica municipality and also the proposal of the Brežica municipality for the establishment of the municipality of Bizeljsko and Dobov, this State Assembly decided and decided that the government - or decided against the government's opinion. We are now receiving a government harmonisation amendment on the table, which does not take account of this fact, because it is based on decisions that are old and the decision of the government comes before that fact; before that, the fact that the National Assembly has decided otherwise. I think it would be right, Mr. Minister, to get the government's opinion and the government's harmonisation amendment, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u75	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u76	Taking into account also the decisions of the National Assembly on this issue. [[...]] You have gone here, if I understand your colleague Podobnik, after all, and have supported the coordination amendment to the decision of the government that comes before this, and I wonder whether it is your personal opinion that you do not need a government meeting and, of course, also a government decision, and on what basis you can conclude for yourself that in such a case new facts, new circumstances, you do not need a government decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u77	Wait a minute! So let me get this straight. Due to the content of the amendment, colleagues from the New Slovenia Group left the general decision on the proposal. Comrade Vizjak asked some questions, as well as colleague Podobnik. Minister, would you like to respond to them? You don't have to, but you can. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u78	Ladies and gentlemen! Allow me to explain the government's conduct in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u79	Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u80	It is precisely a new fact that a decree has been adopted by the National Assembly after it has already taken certain decisions that is contrary to the decisions already taken in these parts, this new circumstance dictates the need for a harmonisation amendment. For this reason, we have decided to propose amendments to the decision which will constitute or result in the alignment of the decisions taken later in the decision with the decisions taken previously in the decision. This is because it is one decision, as the Secretariat of the National Assembly for Law and Legal Affairs has explained, and that this decision must be consistent. In accordance with its rules of procedure, the Government does not need to meet in such cases, when it remains in the same position, in the same opinion as it was previously formulated. And with regard to the municipality of Dobova or Bizely and the municipalities of Radovljica and Jesenice, the government proposes the exact same opinion in the harmonisation amendment as proposed earlier, so that there is no reason for us to re-consult and call upon the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u81	Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u82	Of course I have the opposite opinion. Look, Minister, I've listened very carefully to you and I've heard from your debate the multitude of "we've made up our minds." Who's "we've made up our minds"? That's what I'd like to know. Secondly: "We have decided to align the decision with the decree." Why didn't you decide or who was the arbitrator? Did the government decide? Why did she not comply with the decision and, of course, propose otherwise? I think that this is a substantive decision that is dictated by the new circumstances on the basis of the decisions taken in the National Assembly. I think it is not such a simple conclusion, I stress, that a minister who insists that it is only this and not a government decision that is necessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u83	So there is no general debate on the harmonisation amendment. I understand that you have raised your hand for procedural but I would doubt that this is a matter of such nature. For the last time, if the Minister wants to answer, I'll give him my word, or we'll move on to a decision and there'll be a possible explanation for the vote. Minister, you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u84	I would just like to clarify that the Government does not have the opportunity to adopt amendments or to modify any of the decrees adopted by the National Assembly, which means that it cannot align the decision with the decision. The Government has the opportunity to propose its opinion to the decision; as it has drawn up for the original decision, it is now drawing up an opinion or a harmonisation amendment because a different decision has been taken by the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u85	That's it. We'll move on to a decision on the amendments. Procedurally, Comrade Petty Officer? Don't you? Please, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u86	Mr President, is it possible to deliver an opinion on the amendments on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u87	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u88	Can I perform on behalf of the group?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u89	No, no, no. You can explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u90	Then I would like to ask you to consult only for a few minutes before the first decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u91	Please, please, can I help you? [[...]] Comrade Squirrel, you have the floor, no one took it from you. I didn't take it from you. You have the floor and I ask you to continue and finish your thought. Comrade Companion. Comrade Podobnik, please complete your thought. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u92	Mr President, on behalf of the Group of Members, I have expressed my expectation that we could consult before the decision is taken. Now some people are allergic to these shows and I can't affect their allergies.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u93	I don't think there's any reason for anyone to feel bad about any of us in this house because we're equivalent. Neither do you, Comrade Squirrel, and all the others. This applies to all the same. You wanted a break. How much time, Comrade Petty Officer? Fifteen minutes? Fifteen minutes of rest is acceptable for other colleagues and colleagues, since it's 2:28 p.m., to wait? There's no contract. Please, it's 2:28 p.m. I must put to the vote whether the National Assembly will continue its work. Please stay in your seats. Since there was an objection to my question, I will put to the vote, as it is necessary for the National Assembly to continue working after the recess requested by the SLS Group. Please, if you'll sit down. Please take your seats. I will put to the vote the proposal that, after a certain holiday for the SLS Group, this will take 15 minutes, the National Assembly will meet again and continue its decision-making at the end of agenda item 1.a. We are voting on this proposal. In 15 minutes, I'll be able to rediscover the presence in the hall. I'm on vacation for 15 minutes. If we don't make a decision then, we're gonna break up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-02-22-SDZ3-Redna-13.ana.u94	14.45. We'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. I'd like to invite my colleagues and colleagues. Excuse me? 14.45. I invite everyone to the hall, 15 minutes for the consultation of the SLS Group has passed. Excuse me? I ordered fifteen minutes off. All right, I'll take a look at the presence in the Chamber and then, if the National Assembly is concluded, invite my colleague Sponik to tell us what the positions of the SLS Group are. I invite everyone to the Chamber, except, of course, colleagues from the New Slovenia Group who have declared obstruction, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. This forecast is still valid and we respect it. I'm detecting presence in the hall, please press the "quorum" key. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. I'll be able to re-examine the presence if there's any chance there's just been an inattention. Once again, I'm picking up a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Look, since the National Assembly has not taken a decision to work after 2.00 p.m., and now it is well past, it is almost 3 p.m., I must conclude that for today it will finish and continue on Tuesday at 2.00 p.m.
