ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members: Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Franz Kangler, Andrej Fabjan for the afternoon part of the session, Matjaž Švagan for the beginning of the session, no, he is already here, Peter Levič. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Let's put the cards in, please! Let's hit the quorum! I find 49 Members and Members present. The assembly is adjourned and may decide. Today's continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with yesterday's adjourned hearing of the 27th item on the agenda, this is the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen! Now I'm going to read on, just like I read yesterday what was written, and then it didn't happen. So I don't answer if what I read doesn't happen. Then we will move on to the consideration of the interrupted 10th point, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products and Substances in Contact with Food, and then to the 22nd point and to the order of business. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment prepared agenda item 19 at today's meeting. If a report of the parent working body is submitted by the end of the 27th point, we will continue the meeting with this point, i.e. after the 27th point. All clear? So we're going to continue with 27. PERIOD OF THE DAY, IT'S WITH THE RULES. We're at second reading. So we are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the draft Rules of Procedure. Allow me to inform you in this regard that, pursuant to Article 94 of the Constitution, all substantive decisions relating to this Rules of Procedure will be taken if two thirds of the Members present vote for them. Mr. Visac, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u2	I am sorry for the president, but this item and the meeting were suspended at the time of the general discussion and the debate that was not concluded.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u3	Yesterday, the president, from a magnetogram, said explicitly, "I'm closing the debate." So I can't do anything different than follow the rules of procedure. So yesterday it was said, "I'm closing the debate." This concluded the general part of the debate. Ladies and gentlemen! Please, if we can just calm down a little bit and get back to work. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. Well, it's a normal procedural decision. Let's vote, please! Of the 58 present, 47 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 28.3.2002, this is a review of the amendments to the draft Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, a rapid procedure. Since you have received more of these materials so far, once again I warn you, the date is important, left above, 28.3.2002, and for better orientation, 26 pages have this material. So we all know exactly what we're talking about. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose that we just start with the first amendment, which is Article 11. Rule 11 of the Rules of Procedure, we have an amendment here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Nobody? Please, Mr. Sok. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I have to say that at the beginning of today's session I am joining this protest, because yesterday [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u5	Ladies and gentlemen - I'm sorry, Mr. Sok! - can you please ask all those who use mobile phones to do this outside? That's really impossible, by the way. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u6	I am joining the protest by the leader of the parliamentary group, Mr Visiak, who said at the outset that the meeting was not yesterday or the chairman said yesterday that the meeting was adjourned and that we will continue the general debate today because they were still scheduled for discussion it is obvious that the directors will not even allow the general discussion of the Rules of Procedure to end. They simply intended to accept it in their own way, but they did explain how they dealt with the new rules of procedure being adopted by the National Assembly. So we can't do anything else, or in the course of the debate, we'll decide how we're going to be involved in this matter. As regards the amendment to Article 11, the two parliamentary groups, the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, we propose that the text of Article 11(1) be deleted from the list of voters. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u7	Can I ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups to calm down a little bit? Mr Sok cannot conclude his debate at all. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u8	We propose that the text of "elected by voter list" be deleted in Article 11 in the first paragraph. We have stated in the explanation that it is a matter of drawing up the agenda for the first session of Parliament, and therefore the parliamentary groups, which are composed of Members elected by the same lists of candidates, must have equal and equal status. If it appears in the Rules of Procedure that Members elected by electoral lists have the same status as parliamentary groups, then only those in privileged positions to others have so far not been the case in our Parliament. However, it is not theoretically excluded that there will be no more voters elected to parliament in the future. This would mean that such Members would be in a privileged position to the groups of Members in preparation for the first meeting. We therefore propose that this provision be deleted in the first paragraph of Article 11. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Sok. Just to explain to you and everyone else. I quote a magnetogram of yesterday's session. Madam Vice-President Irma Pavlinič Krebs: "I conclude the general debate and interrupt the meeting." I'm breaking up. "I interrupt this agenda item. We will begin the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. with the newly interrupted item, the 27th item of the agenda, and then proceed with the 10th, 22nd and orderly order." And then the infrastructure and so on. In short, you're welcome. Who wants to discuss Article 11 and the amendment? Yes, Mr. Sok, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u10	I think that the question here has been particularly raised if we continue today with the general debate. And the chair stated twice that they were merely adjourning and that we would continue today with the general debate. If so, I propose a procedural proposal to allow for the possibility and for today's general debate to be concluded, as was said yesterday. Everything else, of course, is a fraud that the President has just afforded.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u11	Mr Sok, now that the sessions are being recorded - I have only read what has been recorded. If something was said past the microphone, I don't know. As President, I can only conclude that the procedure was such that the debate was concluded. Now we're at the 11th, and there's nothing. The debate is on individual articles. I am opening a debate on Article 11. Who wants a word? Mr. Kavčič, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u12	Mr President, I don't think you've read one sentence before that saying, "I'm closing the general debate and adjourning the session." That's what it's like in a magnetogram.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u13	I read that. I read that, Mr. Kavčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u14	Then I apologize. Well, and I think it's perfectly clear. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u15	I ask you not to lose your energy by discussing what has been said, because I already have, and I can read a few more times if you want to. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u16	Since this is an intervention involving my intervention yesterday, I must explain the following. A while earlier, several times before this sentence was said, I raised my hand and wanted to apply for the general debate. Because the president didn't see me and she only saw me after she said this sentence and I wanted to open the debate and she didn't give me a word and after intervention she gave me her word and I asked her if the debate was closing or ending. Because if he breaks up, I won't answer, I won't extend, I'll take it to today. And she said "breakup." I so understood that the debate is adjourned, not a point. That's why I just suggested that the amendment review be prepared and then I thought to continue today. But if this is such a problem and there's been a misunderstanding, I'm just going to take a call to the individual amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u17	Ladies and gentlemen! One more time. The Vice-President said, quote, "I am closing the general debate and interrupting the meeting" and then "I am interrupting this point" and so on, what I have already read, "we will continue tomorrow" and so on. Then Franz Tsukati: "I would only suggest that, given that so far it is the sixth source of amendments, that tomorrow the services prepare a review of all the amendments." Vice President Irma Pavlinič Krebs: "Absolutely. Absolutely. That is why, in fact, we also intended to conclude today's general debate and allow the services to prepare a review, of course, in view of the upcoming amendments, and start tomorrow with a review of the amendments. Thank you very much." Thank you all so much for understanding what I've read. Article 11(1) Article 11 and I ask that we discuss Article 11. Who wants a word? Mr. Mamić, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u18	I'd like to provoke the lady. Let her comment on what she was thinking. [[A laugh in the hall.]] Please! I'm at two points yesterday. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u19	Mr. Mamić!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u20	I raised my hand to sign up for my word and she looked at me, and she gave Mr. Sok her word, and she didn't give it to me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u21	Mr. Mamić! Mr. Mamić!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u22	If he's looking this way so he can't see me, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u23	Mr. Mamić! If you don't mind. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u24	It's nothing but scheming. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u25	Mr. Mamić! If you believe that something was wrong yesterday, then an appropriate letter should be addressed to the leadership of the National Assembly, a protest, however, but we are discussing Article 11, which was also announced yesterday. I'm sorry to interrupt. Once again, who wants a word about Article 11 and the amendment? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 11 and move on to the vote on this amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 72 present, 21 Members and Members voted against 49. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Article 11 as a whole. We are voting on Article 11 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 74 in attendance, 54 were against it, 18 were against it. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 15(3) We have an amendment here. Who wants a word, please? Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u26	Thank you. I'd just like to explain the amendment. It is, however, that Article 15 refers to the fact that, unless the State Assembly at its first meeting elects the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly and appoints the President and Vice-Presidents of the working bodies, it shall elect them or appoint them no later than 30 days after the constitution. The amendment refers to the fact that the same dictatorship also applies to the Secretary-General of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Who else wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 15 and Article 15. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to this article. Let's vote, please! Of the 73 present, 68 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 15 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 75 present, 70 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that Article 15 has been adopted. Article 21, here's an amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Rokavec, please. Oh, I'm sorry! Mr. Anderlich first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u28	This amendment was tabled in order to establish normal communication, if I may say so, between the college and the parliamentary groups. In fact, getting the material an hour before the college meeting, not having the opportunity to consult the Group of Members and to give its opinion there, is often ungrateful and simply impossible, so I proposed this. But since there was a discussion on this article yesterday, I would say, however, that I am correcting if I can orally correct this amendment, that 'the President of the National Assembly will send to the members of the College the material for a meeting of the College 'rightly' at least five days before the College meeting', that this body is also subject to some preparation, and in particular to the preparation of the parliamentary groups for college arrangements, which is likely to make sense; this is a timetable, let's say, the end of the matter, which we voted on yesterday, whether we will work or not. And if we could agree on this issue in the parliamentary groups sooner, there would probably be no doubt and then the colleges would come up with a uniform solution. I propose that it be said that 'the President of the National Assembly shall send to the members of the College material for the meeting of the College 'rightly' at least five days before the College meeting'.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you. Are you going to put that in writing, Mr. Anderlich? [[Yeah.]] Thank you. Since it is actually just one word, I think there is no reason not to take this amendment into account. Mr. Rokavec, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Well, I think that what Mr Anderlič has just said is a step further towards what was expressed yesterday by Mr Spokonik, a fellow Member of Parliament. However, I would point out once again that the word "rightly" would probably be very general and in this particular case, if we really wanted to put the quality of decision-making in college, it would make more sense if we actually added one more paragraph without the word "right" but to define what, in those cases where certain exceptional situations are, in those cases, the provision of this paragraph does not apply. I'm sure this would make it more clear. And now, if this amendment were to be adopted, it would make sense, at least in the third reading, to correct it. Otherwise, I'm sure there'll be a lot of confusion. And the word "right" says yes or no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. If we want to improve the work and operationality of this Rules of Procedure and also the image of the work of this National Assembly, then if the material includes all that the College should have in order that it can make as much a substantive and stable decision, then I advocate that the amendment should remain as it is. Each "rule" is once again a departure or a imitation of the existing state. It will continue to include on the agenda again a whole series of laws for which there are no conditions for them to be discussed in plenary session in accordance with the agenda adopted. And then in the morning we have a board meeting for a bad hour, when we don't do anything, after the session again, then we're here to discuss such and different arguments as to whether there are conditions or not. If we want to establish a better order and better work of the National Assembly with this Rules of Procedure, then these "rightly" in this case should go straight out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u34	Well, there are a number of errors or shortcomings in the rules of procedure, which fall within the framework of the obligations of the institution of the national assembly or the organisation to Members or Members of the national assembly. See, the obligations are constantly being drawn up, both the deadlines for making amendments, for applying to the debate, for, constantly wanting to discipline Members regarding the integration into the work of the National Assembly. [[...]] I agree. That's right. That's right. And it requires Members to work in good quality, in the long term or planned at least one month ahead and prepare, prepare for a high-quality debate already in the committee, rather than in the National Assembly. However, in a series of cases, let's say in the next discussion we will come up with commitments and deadlines that are not mentioned when the material is sent before the hearing, when the material is sent from the committee to the meeting, when Members get this material, when they have the opportunity to prepare for the amendments, because they cannot overnight, even the cross can be that the deadline has already expired, and only after a period of time does it get the material on which they could make an amendment and so on. That's the way it is here. I think it should stay - and I was glad to see this amendment, five days, but now you want to completely cancel it and evaluate it with "rule". I agree that he should be accepted as he is. If you notice that in emergencies, however, elasticity needs to be ensured, give the third reading a new amendment, a new paragraph as already proposed. And in this context, I'm only going to confirm this amendment, but if not, I'm going against the article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Just an explanation, Mr. Cuckoo. The motioner added this amendment to it himself and it reads as he said, with the word "rules". So now we can't discuss whether the word "rightly" is present or not. The word is in addition, so the amendment now reads, the written correction is ready, I think, and the practice, when only one word is replaced or something like that, is common practice, so that we also do not deviate from the rules of the game in this respect. Mr. Tiny and then Mr. Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. So, with the amendment to Article 21, I also agree with the proposal to establish a certain order and to ensure the minimum conditions of some planning, organisation and this will certainly contribute to greater order, as well as to prepare well for the meetings, not allowing a person to arrive at the meeting and then looking for what it would be. However, it is still unclear to me - Mr Anderlich, I have not heard very well - whether he has officially tabled this supplement, supplemented it or will it be in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u37	Mr. Petty Officer, I said it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u38	You said that. Now I don't know, it wasn't clear.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u39	If it's not enough, I think [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u40	In short, this should be advocated and we should also accept it, whether we are in position or opposition, this is for the good of our work, but without that addition "rightly". But I don't agree with the rules. It's "ruled" after nothing. "The rule" is then -- it's in the clouds. This is also a day and it is not possible to agree, this is an empty provision. This is, of course, a guide for us to act this way if the clouds go right, if the sun shines and so on. Then it will happen that it will never be ready in time, I tell you, then not a day will come, but just that day will come. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u41	Mr. Petty Officer, just for an explanation. 193. Rule of the Rules of Procedure: "The amendment may be withdrawn or amended until the beginning of the vote on the amendments to the article to which the amendment has been proposed." In the case of a rapid procedure, an oral amendment may be proposed under the rapid legislative procedure. So somehow the thing is business clean and we don't waste any energy on it. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Let me first say that I believe what the vice president in charge of the session says. And I understand that the proposal has been completed. As for the content of this amended proposal, I agree with it. And I would like to warn my colleagues that if we set such strict rules for every matter, then let us understand that we will make it difficult for ourselves to work in the National Assembly. It is impossible for each thing to write what must be submitted by the time it must be submitted. For important things, yes, but not for every thing. And the College of the National Assembly is an operational body. The College of the National Assembly shall include the heads of the parliamentary groups. They are supposed to monitor most of the issues referred to in Article 25 as competence. And in my opinion, the college is one who, even if he gets something four days earlier or three days earlier, could make a decision. However, I understand the meaning of this supplement in the criticism of the current practice, which I agree with. Not with current practice, but with criticism. Because, as we are now accustomed to, as a rule, that morning, at nine or one of the college meetings, we are only getting materials that we could get a lot sooner, and this needs to be changed, and in this direction, it seems to me that the supplement is appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you so much for saying that. I understand that word "right" so it has to be done. Well, it's right that five days before the college meeting is the material. However, there will be situations and there will be cases where this cannot be achieved, that is an exception. But that's the way it's usually done. And I agree that this supplement is in place. However, no one can ensure that there will never be a situation when it is possible to put everything on the table five days before the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u45	Mr. Petan, then Mr. Kebrich. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. So, if we understood correctly the proposer of this new Rules of Procedure, they wanted to make arrangements, which would be better. That's what we say, then we can't get, I don't know, at the time of the debate, those last moments, full of papers on the table on the amendments. Okay. So far, this is the case, and it's just the way it is, and we can't complain. In view of the fact that the proponents have talked a lot about how they want order now, and they've sharpened a lot, which I think is not bad, and then I find it completely illogical that in this article we would still allow for, say, a term that is a little bit severe, to continue the anarchy. Then completely destroy what you wanted to achieve with this Rules of Procedure. And in this context, I agree with Mr Pohorec, who said, I think someone else has said, Mr Potts, that this is an answer to the current situation, which is impossible. It must have come from this. I propose that this amendment be accepted and that you can also find a better solution in the third reading. You can also add a second paragraph, which will deal with a specific or something like that, but if this doesn't work out better than it is now, then all the effort you put into preparing is to make it really better. And we, well, let's say we believe you had this as a basic purpose. Then it's okay to accept such a thing. But it can improve in the next reading. We probably agree with that, and there would probably be no problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Now it's Mr. Kebrič's turn, and then it's Mrs. Petty Officer, Brenčič, Anderlič. Here you go, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. I support this complementary proposal "rightly" and I propose that in the third reading, we clarify exceptions and say, for example, "in emergencies, material can be delivered and, exceptionally, we agree whether in two or three days". For it is essential that life learns that there is an emergency. However, I think it would be right to really get the material at least two days earlier so that we can consult and make a concrete decision in the parliamentary groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you. I'd like to replicate Mr. Potsch. Well, some degree of orderliness needs to be introduced. Now, if this provision is too rigid, it can be amended in the next reading. We can write it this way: "As a rule in five days, but not later than in two days." That's one more solution. In exceptional cases, the pathological indication of what this would be should be. What would it be like if there was anything that could happen that day or one day earlier? I therefore propose that we accept this, and that a dictatorship such as that of the basic text should be put forward in the third reading a proposal for this solution, which is slightly lessening. However, there is some seriousness to be had here. But if it's just "right," my friends and colleagues, it's nothing. Then it's better that we don't have anything. It's a shame about the ink.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u51	Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I am certainly aware that it is possible or entirely likely that such a modified amendment will not receive two-thirds support. And then there's nothing special to correct in the third reading. But there's something I want to say. This house is us. Let's do something for ourselves. It can no longer come as it is now coming to run a college, the government comes with two, three laws that then cause the most problems in the plenary procedure and the greatest waste of time. Let's face it. And I see in the basic amendment a perfectly good step towards returning or giving this house what it has to be. He must have his dignity, his rules of the game and his way of working, which will be more quality than the present. I am therefore afraid that in the amended text, the amendment can fall and this is the end of the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u53	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u54	I have to say that I listened very carefully to the debate yesterday. And since Mr Podobnik was explicitly determined that he would want this to change to "predict" and because there was no objection and of course I did, there was no objection to such a proposal, then I thought that what was said yesterday by the liker was accepted. [[...]] That is why I have prepared this proposal. I propose that, however, we arrange the following way to arrange in the third reading, now I am in a slight embarrassment, but somehow I am uncomfortable to correct what I have done before, but I would return to the basic amendment as it has been given, and to vote on that - so I truly apologize to the President and everyone else that I would in some way be convinced that this amendment would be acceptable for the majority - that we are going to the basic amendment. And since the article will be open, in that part, if anything needs to be arranged, we will also prepare exceptions or prepare anything for the third reading. Thank you very much. That there will be no misunderstanding, I will change my amendment until the second time until the vote, but not to take this as a bad one, but mainly in the desire to really move from this point and we all understand what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u55	So, according to the Rules of Procedure, as I read earlier, the proposer has the right to vote to amend his proposal. Now Mr Anderlich has changed it again. It is said that the text is as it is written, without "rules". I'm asking if anyone wants to discuss the amendment now, as it was written. Mr. Partich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u56	Nevertheless, I understand that because we first opened up that we can re-read the third reading, so let's think about it. I defend those [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u57	if adopted. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u58	Or Mr. Runt's position that it makes no sense to absolutely close our doors with such a thing. [[...]] This has nothing to do with whether or not there is anarchy in the National Assembly. All the arguments that have been made here seem quite correct to me. However, those who opposed Tonet Anderlich also left this possibility behind. I remember, though it seems to me that many times I don't think we've had things that actually came before us from morning to evening. One was similar to what we had yesterday at an extraordinary meeting, and then, right after those events, about one bank, once and for all. I wouldn't close that door. We're gonna get hit by a problem, and we're gonna say, we're gonna keep going. What about "rules"? It is, of course, indeed, unfortunately, but it is a matter of political culture. Then, of course, there's nice behavior, but someone's not politically nice. I certainly think that to preserve, as we have now returned to the original state, and then to vote like that, we may not have to wait a year in some kind of heat. I therefore propose that this matter be modified in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u59	Thank you. But now we're in second. Anyone else talking? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the amendment and the article. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 21. Let's vote, please! Of the 71 present, 70 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on the 21st full. Let's vote, please! Of the 71 present, 70 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] Article 21 is adopted. Article 22 - one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Kontic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The President-in-Office did not warn, but this 22nd article, the amendment to Article 22, is linked to the second amendment to Article 25.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u61	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Who wants to keep saying the word, please? [[No one else.]] I don't see a desire to discuss it. I'm closing the debate. With this warning given by Mr Kontic. We vote on this amendment, the first amendment to Article 22. If this is accepted, Mr Kontic, then the second amendment to Article 25 is irrelevant, if I understand you correctly. Can you please explain that we'll all be clear on what, because I can't? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u62	In this amendment to Article 22 of the proposed Rules of Procedure Commission, we add a new second paragraph with the text we delete in Article 25. This is the second amendment to Article 25. It is therefore necessary to delete here, if adopted, in the second amendment to Article 25 of this same text. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u63	fifth indent [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u64	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u65	Well, that's what I said. If we accept this, then the second amendment to Article 25 is unnecessary. Isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u66	No, it has to be accepted. Because we are translating the text referred to in Article 25 into Article 22.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u67	All right, thanks. So we are voting on the first amendment to Article 22. Excuse me, we're voting. Of the 70 were 57 Members and Members, 10 were against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 22 as a whole. Let's vote, please! Of the 72 present, 57 Members and Members voted in favour, 10 against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that Article 22 has been adopted. We are at Article 25, where we have four amendments - aha, and one more. So, we have four amendments in the review that I quoted at the outset, and the fifth amendment is on a special paper sheet, 28.3.2002, and we will also treat it as the fifth one. That is said, we have five amendments to Article 25. We have just voted an amendment to Article 22. This is linked to the second amendment to Article 25. This is said to be the first time after the discussion we will vote on the second, and if this is adopted, then we will not vote on the first, but on the others in the next order. I hope it's clear enough. Please, who wants to discuss the amendments and the article? Who wants a word? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much. First of all, I would like to comment on this second article, which we have already adopted as the 22nd. In my opinion, through this article and also the previous one, 22. it reflects that the United List is only aware of the dangers or what will happen if the Rules of Procedure, which foresees these competences of the College, are approved. The Joint List noted that in this case, the current President of the National Assembly, who is of their kind in this case, will have almost no competence to become and remain merely the President of the Parliament of the State, and the actual authority in the National Assembly will be transferred to the leaders of the two parliamentary groups and, of course, to the leader of the most powerful party of the Group of Members. I would like to thank the United List for, however, a highly camouflaged implicit recognition of this, and I must say that in some way I believe that if we are in the National Assembly, we should also have a President of the National Assembly, with all the necessary competences, and not just a President of the Protocol or a representative of the National Assembly. I ask that other Members reflect on this dilemma. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Well, I think that there is a key open question in Article 25, namely how the college will decide. In our Group of Members, we are convinced that it does not make sense to make decisions by means of so-called weighted votes. In view of the introduction of the decision-making system and the decision-making system itself, I think it is our Slovenian product. In other developed parliamentary democracies, the role of the President of Parliament is significantly greater. But if we already have the role of a college to decide, I think we should avoid falling into traps to become a college and a way of deciding on a college is similar to deciding on a company. In fact, the proposal as it is contains exactly this. The amendment of the Slovenian People's Party means that decisions in the College are taken by the majority of all college members present. It is said that not only the members of the parliamentary groups, including the President of the National Assembly, but also all three vice-presidents. This does not mean what the leader of the LDS Group said yesterday that perhaps 14 Members or representatives of Members in this Parliament could decide, but that much more. However, this does not mean that we could decide between the two groups of Members if the way in which the decision-making works becomes similar to that of a company of shares. I am therefore convinced that the climate in Parliament, as well as the decisions taken, will be significantly better if the amendments of the Slovenian People's Party's Group are adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer. If I saw it right, you wanted a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment, which we have tabled, is extremely important for the functioning of the College in order not to give the College the power of some kind of precedent. We've already said that. Then, in a way, we are also abolishing Parliament. Parliament is becoming an increasingly consultative body rather than a decision. Representation on individual committees is only based on this principle, as were the votes obtained. However, given that the College decides when it decides, that is to say, it sets up an organisation, what will happen and when it will occur, then I believe that the welfare of this Parliament and the well-being of the work of everything is not more difficult given the number of votes or the number of Members, but that it is possible to give more equal power to individual Members. If, of course, we are talking about a college that decides in particular on organisational issues, then this role is justified and the college must be composed as well as its tasks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Who wants a word, please? Mr. Peterle. Then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I would like to continue in the spirit of the debate I had yesterday, and I would like to add the following. Sometimes we feel in these debates, not just in the debates, I would say, an allergy to the current president of the National Assembly. I am mentioning this because we believe that the rules of procedure should not work for this occasion or because some forces do not like it and are somehow suing that the most powerful parliamentary group does not have a parliamentary president, which is common in some countries. I don't go into coalition games myself, but I want anyone to be president. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u75	Peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u76	Whoever is president of the National Assembly, let him be the real president, not just giving a word, because his competence is only a little more than that, because he has to take care of the whole. [[...]] And such a rule of procedure, as proposed, only puts it in the role of the giver of the word in college, so to speak, does not have a voice in this structure. And as I have already said, this matter becomes when the proposed solution really is polytburo, in which, in particular, opposition parties are just some addition, they are pure statisticians, I would say, and they can walk to see how the two, at worst, decide everything. I think this is contrary to the idea of Parliament and representative democracy. Therefore, I think that the best solution is the one offered jointly by Nova Slovenije and the Social Democratic Party, that paragraph 1 should be deleted and the college should have the consultative role it normally has around the world; so I understand what we have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! I think that this is one of the key articles in this Rules of Procedure and that this article was also the core of the dispute in the previous treatment, even so far as we voted six or even seven times on this Article, and Parliament has rejected it every time. So now it appears again in the form of the fact that the College of Presidents of the National Assembly actually has those functions that the National Assembly should have. What is most disturbing in this matter is that the College operates with such powers as are written here, on the basis of weighted votes, and it is clear that in such a situation the College will lose its post, as most representatives of the Group or the Group Leaders of Members will not participate in such a college where they will have no chance of co-decision, according to my opinion. Why should we, after all, attend college meetings, when the two leaders of the parliamentary groups can decide everything for everyone. So such a college, of course, loses its function. In such a college, he will also lose his office as President of Parliament, who could be the first to be one of the same powers as the President of Parliament, and he will obviously not have these powers in this national assembly through the decision-making system. Except, of course, in cases where the College does not decide, then the President will be able to make his own decisions after consulting the Heads of the Group. So I'm just such a businessman, if I say so myself, I can't imagine a collobation. How's that gonna work? He will decide once on the basis of weighted votes, secondly, on the basis of the College. I don't know how this decision is going to happen. That is why we propose in our Group, together with the Social Democrat, that this first paragraph of Article 25 be deleted and that the College remain the consultative body of the President of the National Assembly. What he's been so far. And in the current situation, in fact, there have been no major complications in this House. As regards the functioning of the college, matters have taken place normally. The leaders of the parliamentary groups had every opportunity to agree on the College's decisions. Those who advocate that Parliament's work will be rationalised through this, I cannot agree with this at all. I think that the basic reason for your failure to work or for such intense and boring discussions in this House is the unfinished coalition agreement you have signed. Although this coalition contract is 130 or I don't know how many pages, it lacks the most important parts. In fact, the most important parts of the coalition treaty should be how individual ministries are divided between coalition parties and between secretaries and so on. So that's not what this coalition contract contains. It does, however, include the fact that, as you have written down, the ruling position will not be supported by any law or proposal tabled by the opposition. It's actually one miracle of this coalition contract. Because this coalition contract is not written as it should be, it is also the case that, say, the Minister of the People's Party for Transport, Mr Presečnik, goes to the hospital and then replaced by the Minister of LDS, who, not by chance, makes sure that the budget is adopted at that time, including the roads, and then on the Infrastructure Committee of the Members of the same party, these same parliamentary groups of the Minister of Presecnik ask why he does not build this section, why not build this bridge, why not build this or that, or vice versa. A few days ago, Mr Vukko, LDS Member, somehow convinced the Minister of the United List that he had introduced some stickers and the like, while at the same time the same party voted on the road transport law and thus gave the Minister the opportunity to make the case as it was. I would like to point out that it is not a fundamental reason for discussion, for the complications in the Rules of Procedure, but in a coalition agreement that does not really define which sphere, which area the Ministry covers and which coalition parties here in Parliament coordinate and actually convince what is good and what is not good. So if there were no such problems, it would not actually be necessary in the way you wish to amend the rules of procedure. We certainly have such changes that the College of Presidents should decide on the basis of the weighted votes, which means that at this moment, in the current situation of Mr Anderlič and Potrč, we will not, of course, support and support all matters. I do not think that this is any modern European rules of procedure to which you refer, because I said yesterday that if you have allowed a constitution to allow smaller parties to come to Parliament, then you must provide them through the Rules of Procedure and give them the opportunity to coincide with developments in Parliament itself. If this is not the case, I would say, a violation of democratic principles and of the equal decision-making of individual political parties in the highest state body, that is in the State Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr. Cuckoo, please. Excuse me. Excuse me. Is it a replica, Mr. Squirrel? It's a replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Sok confused everything in his performance and somehow complicated the debate on this very important topic, which is called the competence of the college, when and when it decides. There's another problem, Comrade Sok! If we have properly understood the Chairman, we will first vote on the amendment under point 2. In the previous vote, he has received a lot of support and will also most likely get it now and your amendment will become irrelevant. We will not vote on your amendment because I can expect the National Assembly to be consistent and will support the amendment under point 2. That's the first one. Second. I would like to make it clear that I propose not to mention a coalition treaty in our discussions. This is irrelevant in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly are the rules of procedure of all those sitting here. The coalition agreement speaks only of government parties. The Coalition Treaty does not apply to rules of procedure. The Rules of Procedure shall be drawn up in such a way that it is a constitutionally corrected document. I suggest we stop talking about this. Even our parliamentary groups on this issue, the coalition treaty does not bind us in any way. However, I would like to raise the question, which is of a key nature, and in the past few months, my colleague, Školč, has already spoken about it several times, which I do not see today. For me, as a Member, and this is also a question that touches on the discussions on the competences of the College, the principle question, which is also of a constitutional nature, whether we can pass decisions on to colleges as to whether these are constitutional. Parliament can only be established here, in this place. But never in college. And there are two powers that are constitutional. The College will decide on the number of jobs in the working body belonging to the individual parliamentary group and on the number of seats to which the group belongs as the Chair or Vice-President of the individual working body. The working body is a constitutional element of the National Assembly. The composition and the President and the Vice-Presidents as well. This seems to me constitutionally to be the issue of jurisdiction. Secondly, the College shall decide on the composition of the delegations of the National Assembly in international parliamentary institutions and in international organisations and international bodies. Parliament is also an integral part of diplomacy and also represents a diplomatic forum for the state. I should be deciding on these issues here, not in college. But despite the fact that it's breaking down here right now, the rules of procedure are breaking on this issue. It may happen that the article will not be voted on. It may happen that the article will not be voted on. This is a key issue for our Group of Members, so I propose that we take enough time to vote on individual amendments, because we may not vote on the article. Therefore, I would like to point out that the good proposal of the parliamentary group under point 4: "In cases where the College decides, the College's decision is taken if the proposal is supported by most of the College members present." This proposal would resolve a number of dilemmas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Is that a replica of Mr. Anderlich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u82	I have to say, it's obvious it's either a misunderstanding or an unreadable thing or something. I thought, of course, Mr Podobnik, that it was undeniably clear that the National Assembly constituted working bodies and this was written in this Rules of Procedure. Yes - no, the president of the working body and the vice-presidents and members shall also be appointed by the national assembly, as it has been so far. You will remember when you were president for several months - and when Mr Pahor was president at the beginning of the term, and when he was President of the School, and when Rigelnik was President, it was always so that Kviaz was unable to determine the structure and yet there is - since you have, Mr Pahor, some letters that we have not yet implemented, from President Quiaz that the college should decide for God's sake and discuss the Vice-Presidents' posts required by New Slovenia in the working bodies and have them set up a structure and submit a proposal to Kviazu and Kviaz to invite the parliamentary groups to propose a composition in these working bodies. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, for 90 Members to talk in a way that belongs to whom it will belong, to whom it will not belong, and so on. However, representatives of the same names should be seated, i.e. Members who have been elected on the same names, and as stated in Article 11, they will find on the basis of, of course, the reports of the Republic Election Commission and so on - what was the result, what was the number of mandates. And since it is a proportional composition in Slovenia, a proportional electoral system, it means how these functions are also divided. It's not like that with us. With us - and I even think that it is also that weaker customers, smaller customers are more represented in working bodies, including in management places. That is the case; and now and in the previous term and back. And I believe that some of this correction will be made at the beginning of each mandate in order, of course, to ensure this diversity. However, it will be reversed that, for example, the majority will not mean that every right will have the same: those who come to Parliament by two Members - say, a group of minorities or four, which is now the smallest - as those who have 34 or even more, is, of course, incomprehensible - or vice versa: it will happen to us if a body, that is, representatives of all different groups, do not unify certain procedural, some organisational, some logistical things, that we will all talk about everything. However, in order for a decision to be taken - Mr Podobnik, of course, I do not understand that it is possible, and I think it would also be unconstitutional for us to make decisions on behalf of minorities in accordance with a simple principle. We can, but then we have to decide to move some things away. But I wanted to say something else that, despite everything - what was said above all by Mr Peterlet, Mr Sok, and also partly by Mr Sponik - were transferred from the College to the National Assembly. If you look at this, you will see, including this question, which Mr Podobnik spoke most about - the formation or approval or election of the working bodies of the National Assembly, this is at the National Assembly. I also imagine that, for example, determining the order that was previously disputed - we have also set it up in Article 2. The first - because, of course, it is necessary to look at all the articles, the college no longer decides on the order of affairs, but the first is always the one that is first invested, the second is now the government's proposal, and if the procedure is necessary to go parallel, and so on. That's what I was talking about on the committee. That's what I was talking about here yesterday, and so on. This order does not define colleges in the way you still think it defines them. It is also not a question of limiting debates - it is not up to colleges to decide. The College shall adopt a timetable at the proposal of the parliamentary groups. And, of course, here are certain things that are obviously fundamentally mixed or misunderstood, but these are no longer college matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u83	Thank you. Replics. Mr. Potts doesn't have a replica anymore. Mr Rokavec announced the replica and Mr Sok announced the replica before Mr Podobnik - sorry, well, I did not manage to write them all so quickly. So, replicas in order: Mr Podobnik, Mr Rokavec and Mr Sok, who decided not to have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u84	Thank you very much. I'd like to rephrase my colleague Anderlich for a moment. I would also like to support this article so that there is no misunderstanding. I have a question. Let us say that it happens that the College, in accordance with its competence, decides on the number of seats in the working body and also determines which group belongs to the President or Vice-President: Can a group of Members oppose this decision in writing and that the decision is to be discussed in the national assembly?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u85	It's coming from the bench.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u86	No, no, I'm sorry! Does this issue, the number of cities and which group belongs to each city - or does the current proposal of the Rules of Procedure allow the plenary to decide on this topic? My understanding is that it's not about that. Don't you? Then we have every chance to do it or not. It is said that we are absolutely in an incorrect position. So he can't make that decision. Tell me what procedure. No, my colleague Potrč will only decide what the college is proposing, but you can't just say "yes" or "again" and you can't propose your own solution. It is said that the majority, which is just, I will say, establishes in college, proposes solutions. And I know how such solutions will come about. And here is my thought that the fundamental constitutional nature of Parliament is decided by a minority in college, and it is given to the spoils. I've been discussing this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u87	Now it seems to be a replica, Mr. Sponik. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you very much. I wanted to say earlier that this is about the three levels that are connected here. One is substantive decision-making, and I am fully responsible: it has no substantive decision-making colleges. With all my responsibility, I claim. The second is the question of some procedural issues of organisation of work. True, many of these issues have been referred from previous discussions in the National Assembly to colleges. I think that's the only rational thing. Because no rational organization is built on everyone's decision. And the third question is whether there is an opportunity for those who, to say the least, are voted not to take part in the decision that the public - because this is important - will communicate their position. I submit that in most cases it is also with new additions, given. That they have the opportunity to tell and report to the public at a national assembly that is certainly more receptive than college: we have opposed such a solution. We are against going to the agenda, we are against an emergency procedure and similar things, we were "against". And Comrade Podobnik, this question that you are asking about working bodies is within a circle where this message is possible to the public. When the National Assembly chooses, it names the working bodies. Then you can tell who was "for" who was "against" such or different compositions. Otherwise, I'd say we need to know something. In the end, there will also be a substantive decision for working bodies in the National Assembly - and it can be no different. There were suggestions, and there were different suggestions, and we rejected them. We didn't accept them. As for the motion, even when Kviaz was the proposer, Comrade Podobnik, it was formally decided, if necessary, by a vote. Was it always the same majority in Kwiaz, as it was then in the National Assembly, not necessarily, but something else could have happened individually. It was, as a rule, because the structure and composition of Kviaz were always such that it reflected as much as possible the composition of the National Assembly itself. Thus, I think that in this case the warning that the college sets up a composition, presidents, the number of members and the like, and that there is no possibility of an objection here, is not true. An objection is possible when a decision is made on the working body; who was "for" who was "against" can be communicated. And most, but theoretically, will still be able to accept such a proposal in exactly the same way as I could if I proposed to Kviaz, which in principle has the same structure as he would have, with regard to the necessary majority of colleges.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u89	We have replicas, in order, first Mr Rokavec, then Mr Sok and then Mr Podobnik. Please, Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Well, what has already been mentioned several times in this article, which is probably crucial. Look, here's the thing. College - this is mainly a way of deciding on college. In fact, if we look at the history of the constitution of this Parliament or the previous composition of the National Assembly or the current composition, there have always been complications. And whenever there was an attempt at so-called voting, things got mixed up in the National Assembly. I am therefore convinced that if the College decides on the composition of the working bodies, the design and composition of the working bodies, and the delegations, and that it will decide with weighted votes that it will not decide by consensus, then I am sure there will be complications. That is why our amendment is also in Article 4. I think it's a very important amendment. In the process of establishing a national assembly, which is an integral part, the creation and establishment of working bodies and delegations must also be achieved by consensus. The amendment that we offer defines approximately 2/3 of the consensus. And in this decision-making process, it does not participate, as is the basic proposal in Article 25, paragraph 3, if such decision-making remains, neither the President of the National Assembly nor the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly. They shall decide only the leaders of the groups of Members with their shares. And I am afraid that if we introduce such a concept, there will be more problems than ever before in the consultation of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I would like to warn you and forgive myself in advance for this warning that the replica must be a replica, not a debate. Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u92	I would like to replicate to Mr Podobnik. I agree with his debate, but I cannot agree with the fact that I have confused the coalition agreement with the Rules of Procedure, I know that I am not. I know what one is and what the other is. But because it advocates some of the solutions in this Rules of Procedure with the necessity of rationalisation, I just wanted to say and show where the irrational debates are taking place in this House. And we're one of those in the coalition right now. If you were to harmonise yourselves outside this House, this debate would not be held here within the coalition. So that's what I was talking about, Comrade Sponik. But I do know that the coalition agreement is one thing and the rules of procedure are another. But I read the rules as they say. And the fact is that here the proponents, especially Mr Anderlič, speak one thing, but the text says another. It is said that what is ready to be eliminated under this Article at this time is only the 5th point in the first paragraph, because the secretariat has warned him about this. So the secretariat reminded him that it should not be in accordance with the law that Members would not have the legislative right. So this was a note, it's written in an opinion. Therefore, he agreed that paragraph 5 of the first paragraph should be deleted. It says here, of course, that it is no longer decided by the colleges on the "garden" order of consideration of the bill proposals as - as you wrote: "garden" instead of "kind". Well, that's the only thing. But everything else, of course, remains as defined in this and is transferred - I say this and you will not be able to convince me of something else - thus transferring the work from Parliament to the college itself, which thus assumes the role of Parliament in small. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u93	Replica, Mr. Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much. I repeat to my respectable colleague Potræ, who has very decidedly explained how he understands certain provisions of Article 25. I have to say, my rescue scepticism is getting bigger. But I'll try to be very clear. See, the last paragraph reads: "The representative of the parliamentary group who opposed the decision of the college in writing may explain the position of the delegation at the meeting of the national assembly. The presentation of positions may not be longer than 6 minutes." My colleague Potrč said that almost all decisions of the college could be discussed on the quorum or also argued in writing. I'm asking the question again. Is it possible, in the case of the management of working bodies and the number of members - you know, this is one of the key competences and the constitutional element of Parliament - whether it is possible not only to be "for" or "against" on the plenary to make a proposal? It can't be! It is not possible and this is a major step backwards that has happened to this Rules of Procedure. And, of course, the secretariat warns of that. He's giving me a heads-up. I read: "It shows, however, that it is clearer whether the case referred to in paragraph 6" - which I read - "only to oppose the College's decision on the procedure for dealing with individual bill proposals or whether the possibility of written opposition may be admissible against all decisions taken by the College." Question: Can there be a written objection to the decisions I have previously read? The Secretariat estimates that it is not possible. I think there is a fundamental misunderstanding in these provisions of the College's competence. The College shall not be able to delegate to the National Assembly the powers which only the plenary can exercise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u95	Thank you very much. So, gentlemen, we have in the rules of procedure what a replica is. But what it is now is controversy. I'm just finding out. Mr. Anderlich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u96	I'll try to explain, because the replica is supposed to be an explanation. Mr. Squirrel! Now, how now, I say - and I will not repeat - in all mandates so far have we established working bodies in the National Assembly? At the suggestion of Quiaz. Kviaz asked the college every time to make a relationship and to divide the presidential seats according to the ratio of the outcome of the elections, and that is all he will do now. Kviaz then put names on this structure only in the boxes - and then, remember, in the previous term, we did this for three months, in this mandate for quite a long time - and then the decree went to the National Assembly, the decree, and there was a vote on the decree. In the decision it was said: "We are in favour", we "against", we oppose, and [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] - debate, absolutely! [[...]] - even in writing, there is an objection in writing, or whatever, and in the end there is a vote. But it has never been under the current rules of procedure before that the loot would say, "No, but on the Committee on the Economy, President Ferri Horvat of the United List, and this city does not belong to the United List, but it will belong to someone else" - never before! In no constitution - it is not envisaged at all under the current rules of procedure. And this provision is actually summarized and rationalised in the sense that we do not have a long way to go: first, at a college that will find that we have different parliamentary groups, we will instruct Kwiaz to do these things; but we just said: what the college does, in one way or another, they will do the parliamentary groups, they will report to the college, this preparation, and then the assembly will discuss all these things, it can be informed in writing, and finally it will decide. That's all. I hope I didn't go away, but I was really trying to explain, because I didn't think we were getting along with the like guy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u97	Now we have two debates, first Mr Sugar and then Mr Pohorec. Here you go, Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. So, first of all, we are all aware that this article is very important, very important, also with regard to our adoption of the entire rules of procedure. It's important because the college gets quite a lot of powers. In any case, Article 25 states what the college decides in the first paragraph - not only on the order, but also on the number of jobs in the working body for the individual parliamentary group, on the position of president, on the composition of the delegations of the national assembly and so on. Article 34, Mr Anderlich, well states how these decisions are verified or corrected at the plenary session of the National Assembly. The National Assembly shall establish a working body on a proposal from the College, nothing else. It also states how a national assembly or individual parliamentary group may intervene in these decisions or propose a different solution. Things are very limited and the college has been given great powers; I don't think I'd lose words about this. I agree that it is rational for some things to be transferred to college and for the college to decide on them, for sure. However, how to decide on this and how to achieve some key to the application of its parliamentary group to college is another issue. You have gone by the key of the number of Members. Maybe it looks like it's very good. Rightly, according to your way of thinking that a small parliamentary group has so little weight in the college that it prepares or somehow decides to operate after the entire national assembly. For something other than deciding the starting points, how the parliamentary groups or individual committees will work, how the national assembly will work and so on. This is like, I'm going to give an interesting case as if the European Union were to say, "The problem with the vote of Members of the individual country will depend on the number of inhabitants." There's no such thing! There's no such thing! Our voice will not be 40 times worse than the voice of the German Members. He won't. There's a different situation. The committees formed in the European Union are also different committees. They are not composed - the number of Members or representatives of each country, the country depends not only on the number of inhabitants. Even in the case of, say, world organisations certainly our voice, Slovenian voice is not two thousand times worse than the vote of Chinese representatives. It's not. The situation is different. And I think that if the task of the college is to prepare a starting point for the work of the National Assembly - and this is nothing more than a starting point - that is to say, orderly order, further, whether an individual law will be adopted quickly or by any procedure and then how the working bodies, our representative delegation, will be formed - I think it is very unfair that you have chosen such an option. Such a key is unacceptable for college decision-making. I would expect that, on the basis of the discussions that have taken place in the previous proposal, but that it would be prudent to correct this key may not accept the key that each parliamentary group has the weight of one vote and that, on the other hand, you do not insist on the key that the weight of the vote, the representative of the parliamentary group, is the weight of the number of Members, because we are talking about the starting points for the work of the national assembly. The starting points. Like the Rules of Procedure, the starting point for the work of the National Assembly and here we accept: not by a simple majority, respected, because the starting points must be taken into account by another democratic key. And I'd expect you to find a better way to find a Solomonic middle school, but you haven't found one. And as long as you insist on such a solution, I will not support it and, of course, the adoption of the Rules of Procedure depends on these key issues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u99	Thank you. A debate, Mr. Pohorec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. I would ask for the consistency of the second amendment with Article 25 with the third paragraph to which this amendment relates. In fact, the amendment states: the second sentence of the third paragraph is deleted, which reads - but that quoted sentence is in the basic text in the third paragraph. And I want to know what's right! Is it the third sentence of paragraph 3 or something else? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u101	Mr. Kontic, I think Mr. Pohorec is right.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u102	Yes, Mr. Chairman, he's right. This is the third sentence of paragraph 3. If I apologize for this mistake, but given the circumstances or time constraints in which the Commission has acted, this is understandable. Perhaps there would be fewer mistakes if a member of the DeSUS were present on the committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u103	Well, we'll still thank Mr. Pohorec for warning us of a mistake. Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, he'll have a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u104	For the last time, see, now that we have established working bodies, it must have been because it is such a composition, such a relationship, such was the will of the electorate, the KVIAZ, 10 members of the LDS and 1 member of the national party and 1 member of minorities and so on. And that's where the decision was made and the structure was made. Now it is only a proposal that we do not go to KVIAZ ten times, that the things that KVIAZ orders are not going in proportion to the number of Members or the seats that have been reached, but that one representative is going to do because it makes so much sense. And when we talk about procedural, organisational issues - it's clear that someone can say on behalf of those 10, who would otherwise sit down, they would do so. If we look at this mandate, which we all know best, you will see that KVIAZ, with a majority of the votes of Members, has decided and appointed a President, a Vice-President, members. And he sent it to the National Assembly. The rule was that the LDS Members did not interfere with the nominal composition of the representatives of the SDS or any other party, and neither did they. However, the rule was that in voting on the structure, only what the college had prepared had been taken into account. In agreement with the results. And that's all. There's nothing else we can do here. So we are eliminating one phase of the interface where it must sit proportionally, because this is one of the basic provisions of the current rules of procedure, which is applicable and also of the future, as long as there is a proportional system to make up working bodies proportionally, except for supervisory working bodies. It's settled here. But I really won't be answering anymore, because I think we've explained things.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you. Two replicas. Mr. Squirrel, Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u106	Just for a little while. I mean, colleague Anderlich, your explanation in this sense is logical and I accept it. It is only a fundamental question of principle, including democracy, that sometimes the power of one who has a great, much, in particular, to distribute it to those who have less in the good functioning of the whole. This is the art of democracy, too. That's the misunderstanding. That's the other one. I am convinced that I am correct in interpreting that it would not have happened that, already in the course of this term, a college would have simply proposed, say, to the National Assembly to reduce the number of jobs in the working body or, yes, would have changed, or that the College would have otherwise found out who the Vice-President or the President of the working bodies is. In fact, it will be possible to do so immediately under the rules of procedure. I hope that this is not meant to be such a change already in this mandate, because the agreement for this mandate should be in force by the end of the mandate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u107	Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u108	I object to having this pink punk between college and any working body. I find it very unusual for a working body to order a college or ask for a college. I think we're also on the tight side with the question of subsidiarity here. Those who, on behalf of a party, are a member of Kviaz shall, with full powers, decide whether to be in Kviaz or to be on the Foreign Policy Committee. Not that we have a special body that decides that, and some mixed competences, in fact. Why do we have work bodies? We don't need any colleges in reserve on this subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you. Can we conclude the debate on these amendments and the article and move to a vote on the amendments, as we have previously announced, that the matter would be quite clear Forgive me. [[...]] Mr. Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u110	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group, I ask for a 20-minute recess before deciding.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u111	20 minutes rest at the request of the New Slovenia Group. That's what we say. At 12.02.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u112	Can we continue? We'll first find out if there's a presence in the hall. We're picking up the presence! Please press "quorum." 63 of us are present. We're final, and we can make decisions. First I'd give the word No, sir doesn't. [[...]] Good. Then I'm obliged to inform you of the following. At that time, we found that the Group of Members had tabled three amendments under order number 1 correctly and that they were grouped together under one which was wrong. So I'm asking you to follow what I'm about to say. This is the first amendment that begins: "The first paragraph is drawn," this amendment will be marked with 1a. Then, the next paragraph, which reads: "The first sentence of the second paragraph shall be amended to read" shall read 1b. And the third paragraph, which reads: "The first sentence of the third paragraph shall be amended to read," is 1c. There has been a mistake in designing this review and we apologize to the applicants and, of course, to all those present. So we have instead of one amendment, under order number 1 three amendments: 1a, 1b and 1c. Nevertheless, we will begin by voting on the amendment under order number 2. If this amendment is adopted, then the amendment under 1a will be irrelevant. Is everything clear? I'll talk about further intersections and complications later. Let's start with the amendment. So we're going to vote first on the amendment under order number two. If this is accepted, 1.a is irrelevant. Let's vote, please! Of the 73 present, 58 Members and Members voted against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been adopted and 1a is irrelevant. We are now going to the vote on the third amendment, please see page 3. If this amendment is accepted by the amendment under order number 3, please. [[...]] If an amendment under 3 is adopted, the immaterial amendments are 1b, 1c, 4 and 5. Is that clear? Once again, we will really know exactly what we are voting on. So, we're voting on a third. If this is accepted, it becomes irrelevant amendments 1b, 1c, then order number 4 under review and amendment number 5 on a special paper sheet. Is everything clear? Good. We move to the vote on the amendment under order number 3. Let's vote, please. Of the 74 present, 19 votes against 52. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 52.]] I take it that the third amendment has not been adopted. That's why we're going to Amendment 1b now. We are voting on Amendment 1b. Let's vote, please. Of the 69 present, 25 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We move to the vote on Amendment 1c. We are voting on Amendment 1c; if adopted, 4 and 5 are irrelevant. Of the 69 present, 24 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're at the amendment under order number 4. We are voting on the amendment under order number 4 [[is excluded with the fifth]] . I'm sorry, we're putting an end to this vote. Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. I myself will vote in favour of this amendment by the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, in which we also assess that it is one of the key amendments, on which we will also decide to support ourselves or against the support of this Rules of Procedure. Indeed, the fact is that with this amendment we are allowing greater agreement for a decision in the College. If I could just practically tell you what that means. This means that, in a specific case, the LDS Group would need the support of four parliamentary groups at this time instead of supporting three parliamentary groups to take a decision in college. But I don't think we can get out of the situation. However, we can come from practice because many times we have been able to figure out when things were achieved in college or in the working body, Kviazu, by consensus or by a majority, there have been significantly fewer problems and problems in the procedure and in the decision-making of the National Assembly. We are therefore in the Group of Members, and personally, convinced that this amendment is still essential for the proper functioning and decision-making of both the College and the National Assembly as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you. Is there any other explanation for the voice that I won't miss anyone, please? No, no, no. Then we move on to the vote on the fourth amendment. It's off with the fifth. Let's vote, please! Of the 71 present, 25, 44 voted against. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're at the fifth one we've got on the special sheet. Mr. Stemberger, explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u115	All that we have adopted or rejected so far, and we have foreseen this in some way in the Parliamentary Group of the parties of young Slovenia, so we have tabled this amendment subsequently, is the fact that the College will decide on certain procedural and organisational matters. These decisions will be taken by weighting the votes. We're proposing to be here [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u116	That's what you're suggesting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u117	to be adopted by at least two thirds of the votes weighted. [[...]] This would somehow prevent the picture of Parliament from somehow being distorted. In fact, I will deliberately caricine, if - let's say - in a 34-member parliamentary group for a proposal of 18 Members, decide "for", and 16 "against" it somehow manifests itself, and when deciding on the college, the figure is 34:0. Our amendment, of course, does not completely eliminate this, but at least minimally prevents this distorted picture of Parliament in college. I believe that this amendment is worthy of support, so we will also support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u118	I warn you, the explanation of vote is the first person of unity. Thank you. Anyone else want to explain their voice? No one else. Then we move on to the vote on the fifth amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 73 present, 29 Members and Members voted in favour. There were 42 of them against it. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now voting on the 25th article in its entirety. Let's vote, please! Of the 72 present, 47 Members and Members voted in favour. There were 22 of them against it. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 22.]] I understand that the article has not been adopted. We're at Article 26. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 26. Let's vote, please! Of the 70 present, 60 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us vote on Article 26 as a whole. Of the 68 present, 60 Members and Members voted in favour. One was against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 26 has been adopted. Article 28(2) An amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you so much for saying that. The amendment refers to the Head of the Legislative and Legal Service, whom, following an amendment, should be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the National Assembly, not by colleges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Procedural? I can't see, now who wants procedural.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u121	Yeah, me. I wonder if it's previous. At the time we discussed it, I pointed out, under the same dilemma, whether these articles are at all nonconsistent, it makes no sense to vote on them anymore because they relate to the college.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u122	Mr Jerovska would warn us that we are in second reading. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] Then I conclude the debate on Article 28 and move on to the vote on the amendment to Article 28. We're voting. Of the 69 present, 20 voted in favour, against 46 MEPs. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 28 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 73 present, 54 members and Members voted against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] The Article has been adopted. Article 34 We have three amendments here. There seems to have been a mistake in the third. So please make that third amendment, if you look at page 4. The first line is the third amendment, the second line, and it says, "The fourth paragraph is deleted," is the fourth amendment. Then the next, the new sixth paragraph is added, is the fifth amendment. Ah, all the way to the end is the fifth amendment. Good. It is said that it will be perfectly clear. In Article 34, we have five amendments, so that the third amendment - is as it is written. The fourth amendment reads: "The fourth paragraph is deleted." The fifth amendment begins with the words, "A new sixth paragraph is added and then to the end." I am opening a debate on the amendments and Article 34. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u123	Mr President, thank you for your word. So these errors, which have crept into this review of the amendments, can, of course, be accidental or not. So I must say this, because, as the chairman has pointed out correctly, we have tabled amendments, but those, of course, with the chairman of the commission, the employer at the head, who so vehemently rapes us with this material after such a rapid procedure, of course, have not given the legislative and other services sufficient time to properly prepare this material. Besides, I don't know what you're getting out of this, but it's clearly not a good thing to do. I support such rules, which will certainly be clear. The words 'rules', as set out in this Article 34, do not give this guarantee. In each article where you write the word "rightly", this means an empty provision that one can or cannot respect. In any event, it shall not infringe paragraph [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u124	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u125	In which you put the word "right". [[...]] We also propose to add a new sixth paragraph, namely, this paragraph would read as it used to be, that the opposition had not only the chairman of the budget and other public finances commission and the commission to oversee the work of the security and intelligence services, but that the opposition had a majority in these commissions. Because these commissions, which are special commissions under our rules of procedure, are responsible for exercising control. And if the opposition does not have a majority in such commissions, then, of course, control is questionable or the Commission cannot make decisions that would help it to work. This has also been demonstrated so far, and at least for the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances run by Dr Andrej Bajuk, I know that she has had great difficulties in adopting certain decisions which meant that she could obtain documentation from certain public companies, public institutions and so on. Once again, the commission in which the opposition does not have a majority doesn't make any sense, because in this case the position or if you want [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u126	Excuse me, Mr. Sok. Excuse me! Colleagues and colleagues, could I have your attention, please? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u127	Actually, I'm talking about a magnetogram, so I don't mind if they don't listen. In fact, regardless of what anyone is saying in this House, most have decided that it will vote if, of course, it has a sufficient number of Members to vote for it, and they don't care what anyone says. So once again, I say that the rules of procedure, which will not be the one that the National Assembly could - in the end, we will not support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u128	Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I would just like to ask my colleagues from the New Slovenia Group, which is, of course, related to their amendment under Article 3 to 34, which, according to the statement, would be good for the majority of the opposition Members, or rightly, to support. However, it bothers me why paragraph 4 is deleted. If they can just explain to me that I'll make up my mind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u130	Who wants another word? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u131	I would just like to mention the position on the first amendment, namely the first paragraph of this amendment. In fact, in the basic text, I would like to point out this to the Members, in the basic text it is said that if the president of the working body is of a number of representatives of the sent groups of positions, the Vice-President of the working body is, as a rule, of the members of the opposition groups and vice versa. Here, however, is the proposed degradation of this principle. That is to say, "different groups of Members", where different groups of Members can be all of the types of positions. I do not think that this is a constructive approach to creating such working conditions so that this work runs constructively, nationally, in the national assembly. That is why I do not support this amendment under number one.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you. Who else wants a word? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u133	Thank you for your word. Only enough to answer this question by my fellow Member, Mr Barovic. We propose the deletion of the fourth paragraph in this Article, since this fourth paragraph states: "In the composition of working bodies and the establishment of functions in them, the College of the President of the National Assembly may also take account of the Group of Unaffiliated Members." Therefore, according to Article 30 of this Rules of Procedure, what is the Group of Members and the paragraph cited here does not seem necessary. Article 30 states that at least three Members may form a group of Members and then the Group of Members shall have the same rights as all other groups of Members. For this reason, we propose deleting, not reducing any possibility of such unrelated Members acting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you. Can we close the debate? Yes, you can. I am closing the debate on the amendments and Article 34 and moving on to the vote. We will vote in accordance with the order in which it is written, and let me warn you that if an amendment under order number 2 is adopted, then the third is irrelevant. Can we get to the vote? Yes, you can. We're voting on the first amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 74 present, 54 members and Members voted in favour. 17 were against it. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 72 present, 22 voted against. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We vote on the third amendment. Let's vote please! Of the 72 present, 22,49 voted against. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 49.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're voting on the fourth amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 69 present, 18 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 49.]] The amendment has not been accepted. And the fifth amendment. We're voting on the fifth amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 73 present, 20 Members and Members voted against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 48.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 34 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 71 present, 51 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 15.]] The Article has been adopted. Article 40 We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 40. We're voting, please. Of the 75 present, 25 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 47.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 40 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 73 present, there were 57 votes in favour and 12 against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against 12.]] Article adopted Article 42 An amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word?? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment to Article 42. Let's vote, please. Of the 75 present, 64 members and Members voted against. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 42 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 72 present, 57 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 44, one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u135	Thank you. More or less, the amendment proposed under Article 44 is editorial in nature. Article 44, first paragraph, states: "A representative shall be invited to attend a meeting of the parent working body at which the opinion of the working body concerned is considered." The question is, which one. We therefore propose that "his representative" be written "the representative of an interested working body". Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We vote on the amendment to Article 44. Let's vote, please. Of the 72 present, 48 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 44 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 72 present, 68 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 46 We have three amendments here, even though you can only see two so far. Can I have your attention, please? The item you see at the end of the page - please be careful that we know exactly what we are talking about and vote - "the fourth paragraph is deleted" - see, at the end of the page? - this is the third amendment. Please mark this as the third amendment. If you look at all three amendments, you see that there's some kind of discrepancy here, because it's written like that, the same proponent. So we're going to decide first, then we're going to decide second, and then we're going back to third. First and second, they're shutting down. So I'd like to ask the proposer if they might withdraw one of them because they're in conflict. There are two amendments from the same proposer. To save ourselves one vote. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u137	Thank you very much. This amendment has been written under the assumption that the amendment to Article 34 will be adopted. This means that the opposition will have a majority in the two supervisory commissions. If that amendment has not been adopted, of course, then what has already been adopted in Parliament and exists in the present Rules of Procedure - that one third of the members of the working body can, it is said, require all the information they need for their work by the Commission for Budgetary Control and the Commission for Oversight at the Security and Intelligence Services. That, I believe, is probably a solution to escape in the European space. But this is recorded in the present Rules of Procedure and since the amendment to Article 34 has not been adopted, we withdraw this second amendment, which states that the third paragraph is deleted. But for the rest of us, let him vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u138	In fact, you wanted to withdraw or withdraw paragraph 4 because paragraph 4 was deleted. Only if we read the first amendment, where you say "the second paragraph changes by saying so" and then this is the text "at least one third of the articles", then we look at the second amendment, "in the second paragraph, the text of the monitoring committee" and so on, I don't know that these two amendments are in conflict, not the third. [[...]] [[...]] The first and the second are in conflict. There's no third. The third is a separate amendment. And you're pulling out of third right now. I'm sorry, but I understand that the first and second are the opposite, so back off the first or the second. So you're withdrawing the other one. Ladies and gentlemen! Just so we're clear. There's been a mistake, a lapsus, for example, and we have a situation like this. The proposer withdraws the amendment on page 6 above under order number 2. Let's cross it out and it's gone. By this logic we then have on page 5 that the amendment below 1 remains as it is written. The amendment "fourth paragraph is deleted" becomes the second amendment. That's how we have a transparent picture. Is there anything unclear? Anybody else want to discuss this? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the first amendment to Article 46. Let's vote please! Of the 71 present, 19 MEPs and Members voted in favour. 47 was against it. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 47.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote please! Of the 71 present, 20 Members and Members voted in favour. There were 46 of them against it. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Article 46 as a whole. Let's vote on the whole article! Of the 69 present, 49 Members and Members voted in favour. 14 were against it. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 49 An amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the decision on the first amendment to Article 49. Let's vote please! Of the 70 present, 61 Members and Members voted in favour. No one was against it. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 49 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 64 present, 57 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 53, one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Nobody? Please, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u139	This is an amendment to Article 53, and we propose that the third paragraph of this Article be deleted. In the third paragraph of Article 53, the proponents stated that the working bodies could be effective and that they could work even if only one third of the members were present at the meeting. I think that the Parliament, which consists of politicians who are employed as professionals, is unacceptable that only one third of the members of the working body could be present at the meeting and that the working body would work in this way, and then the chair would invite everyone else to vote by correspondence. This is also contrary to the Anti-Birocratic Programme, as such a way of working would be a huge red tape and a lot of complications, and Members of Parliament would be able to perform other works during the working-body session. This seems unacceptable to us and we propose that this paragraph of Article 53 be deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Could I have your attention, please? Anyone else want a word? Yes, Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u141	Thank you for your word. Look, I think this amendment is probably worth considering. The third paragraph of Article 53 may remain, provided that Parliament does what has been done so far. However, if the working bodies actually have the role that the rules of procedure dictate, and that we will allow the working bodies to decide only by correspondence, then I think that this will be a very bad, poor quality journey at the end of the adopted laws that will be decided and adopted by Parliament. Therefore, I think that this proposal has quite a bit of salt, and it would probably be worth considering that it would also be helpful to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u142	Thank you. Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u143	Well, not only here, but perhaps above all here comes the expression, I do not know whether subconsciously or consciously, the tendency of the Rules of Procedure to make the work as bitter as possible for small groups of Members - small groups of Members - point out - that they also have the greatest difficulty in their work. Otherwise, we have just accepted that they may occupy a maximum of four working bodies. I think it's too much. In the third reading we should accept that no more than two working bodies. The working body now assumes the tasks, respected, first reading tasks and decision-making tasks. I think we are still not aware that work in the working body will now be a serious work that requires preparation, and if we want to do quality work, including presence, presence. Only a large party will be able to be present on all working bodies under these conditions. Then it is great for a large client to have one third of its members. I think we should take this thing seriously. That is, we should not accept the article briefly if the amendment is not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u144	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u145	Thank you very much. I think it is imperative that this third paragraph of Article 53 be deleted, because in this third paragraph all disrespect for serious parliamentary work has been reflected. It is hidden in this or we can say that it shows how serious the applicants have actually taken what they say will be more and more serious in future committees and commissions. The key role was to be transferred to committees and commissions, but it would be decided and voted by post. So we're just a step away from the delegation system. There were also some groups, delegations, and then they sent to Ljubljana the one who most assuredly ensured that he would not discuss, and so on. And, gentlemen, you're embarrassed by the diction that was written down. You have come to your senses and I hope that you will at least vote in favour of deleting this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u146	Thank you. Mr. Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u147	It would be practical. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u148	A little more attention, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u149	I expected to be written in this material to reduce the number of working bodies, and the effect would be the same as that of this Article 53. I just think it's totally undemocratic that one third can make a decision. That is why I think this is a good explanation to delete this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u151	Thank you very much. I'm going to join my colleagues a little earlier, and I'm going to explain it simply and simply. If a matter is so urgent that, say, only a third is present that a correspondence meeting is necessary if the matter is so urgent, it is better that the cancellation of the meeting of other working bodies or that the matter is convened by the majority of the members of the committee. However, if the matter is so irrelevant that it could be dealt with at a correspondence meeting, it may be moved to a future meeting. Therefore, I think that between colleagues and colleagues we would actually consider whether this paragraph is actually the best and I think we would do nothing wrong if we supported the amendment to this article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u152	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Pohorec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u153	If we carefully examine this third paragraph, I think that it also contains all the security guards so that no wrong decision is taken. Not to be accepted. To be present at the sitting. Even those who disagree with the content may not agree with it, it means that there is no agreement as set out in the first sentence. And on that. If one third opposes a correspondence meeting, there may not be a correspondence meeting again. What more do we want? Then we go back to practice when we do not come to meetings, we cause indiscretion, but things would be necessary, sometimes less important, but we should define them, and we made a correspondence meeting and then we decided at the correspondence meeting on the proposal for a decision, or we did not decide. I don't see such a great sin if this adopted paragraph stays the way it is, because the fuses are embedded in it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr. Sok. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u155	A replica of the execution of Mr. Pohorc. It is already in our working bodies so that the working body can also be discussed at a non-conclusion session. However, some decisions may not be made at an open meeting. And it is the duty of the Members to hold a meeting in conclusion. However, it must be based on the fact that the electorates elected us to this Parliament to represent at the meetings of the working bodies and in Parliament the interests of the electorates from whom we were elected. This third paragraph of Article 53 provides, however, that decisions taken at a non-conclusion meeting may subsequently be taken or confirmed by correspondence. Such a solution does not seem to make sense to me and will in practice pose major problems. Big trouble. This also gives the possibility of manipulation. I don't know who's going to be checking to see if all the Members of the Correspondence Meeting actually voted in favour of a decision and so on. So such a decision as it is here also entails the necessity of checking whether what is then recorded in the record is true or not. Such a provision will mean additional burden for us Members and, in practice, a major complication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u156	Thank you. Anyone else? No one else. Can we close the debate? [[Yeah.]] We are closing the debate on the amendments and the article and moving on to decision-making. First, about the amendment. Let's vote please! Of the 70 present, 22 voted in favour. 46 Members and Members opposed. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let us vote on Article 53 as a whole. Let's vote please! Of the 72 present, 50 Members and Members voted in favour. 18 were against it. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 59 We have an amendment here. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote please! Of the 70 present, 60 members and Members voted in favour. Four were against it. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 59 as a whole. Let's vote please! Of the 67 present, 58 Members and Members voted in favour. One was against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Article 62 We have an amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u157	I would only ask if the proposer of the amendment could explain why, unless otherwise provided for in this Rules of Procedure, if they have examined in more detail whether there is any other provision in any article.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u158	Who else wants a word? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u159	We come from the fact that the Rules of Procedure should be written clearly and unequivocally. All such dictions in the Rules of Procedure, where they are spoken "rightly", "may", "if not specified otherwise", of course, represent always on the spot ambiguous interpretation. This conclusion of this Article, "unless otherwise specified by this Rules of Procedure", comes just as we used to have the rules of service in the Yugoslav National Army. Everything was allowed, but it always said, "if you don't do it differently." And that is how we interpret these solutions in this Rules of Procedure. Therefore, of course, we propose that before this sentence, "if I am not otherwise determined by the Rules of Procedure", the point is made. And then it remains, as Article 62 states, "the National Assembly cannot decide on matters which have not been taken by the mother's labour body". However, you leave yourself with the proponents always some reserve so that you can then play this national assembly in a simpler and simpler way, once with quick procedures, secondly reclassify it as an emergency, once in a "right", once in a "may", once in a [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u160	Peace in the hall, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u161	It is about helping to make the Rules of Procedure clear and effective. If it's not clear, it won't be effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u162	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u163	Even this debate could be viewed as funny, but unfortunately it does not consider what this provision actually means. So, a clear explanation. There must be absolutely no material delivered by the Member. However, you have cases that are particularly specific, in emergency situations, a chapter that talks about deciding the national assembly, when you can - yes, of course! Go look ahead and you'll see the chapter I won't explain to you now about all the articles where it says anything when we get to them, we'll figure it out. [[...]] Now I care about consistency in individual articles and I explain individual articles, now we have a debate on articles. In this article, it is only important that Members cannot decide if in general procedures, in regular procedures, in normal work, if we do not have adequate material to do so. Only in cases we will meet where it is specified and in which cases it can. Therefore, unless otherwise specified - that I am not dragging this debate forward now - it seems to me that the purpose could have been noble, but it did not take the whole into account.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u164	Thank you. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Allow me an apology. "Lapsus lingue" happened to me personally. I wanted to ask - unless otherwise provided for in this Rules of Procedure, I wanted to ask the proposer of the new Rules of Procedure, not the amendment. This was my fault, and I apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u166	Anyone else? Can we close the debate? [[Yes, you can.]] I'm closing the debate. We vote on the amendment to Article 62. Let's vote, please. Of the 73 present, 21 Members and Members voted against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We still vote on Article 62 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 70 present, 52 members and Members voted against 12. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against 12.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. This would break this amendment part at this point because I have a notice. I'm breaking up this agenda item, and I'm going to read you the following. You won't be surprised. I told you this morning that what I'm reading isn't true or will not hold. So, the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission proposes: "The Commission of the National Assembly for Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs has forwarded seven proposals on the election of candidates to the judiciary for the 14th meeting of the National Assembly on a proposal from the Judicial Council. I propose that the National Assembly decide on the proposed decisions today. In view of the need to invite a representative of the Judicial Council to be considered, I propose that this proposal be submitted in a decision of the State Assembly before the conclusion of the morning session of the National Assembly and that the hearing be held at 2.30 p.m. I thank you for your understanding, President Joseph Scholch." We have a procedural proposal to make a point, seven proposals for the election of candidates to the judiciary today at 2.30 p.m. I put this proposal to the vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 68 present, 40 voted against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 24.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. So at 2.30 p.m., we first vote on the election of candidates for judicial office, and then we proceed with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u167	I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall because I'm going to be there! Colleagues and colleagues kindly come to the hall! It's 3:00 in the morning. Mr. Breznik, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Please take your seats. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Please take your seats. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. Please, if everyone makes sure that the card is inserted into the voting device. Please take your seats! I'm picking up a presence in the hall! I'm picking up a presence in the hall! Please, please, please, please, please, 49 colleagues and colleagues are present. Before we move on to the 33rd item of the agenda, this is for elections and appointments, or on the proposals of the Judicial Council for election to judicial functions, I must remind you that colleague Kremžar and colleague Barovič will not be with us this afternoon, colleague Barovic from 17:00 p.m. on. We are therefore moving forward, as we decided at the end of the morning work, before the 27th item of the agenda, is the adoption of the Rules of Procedure, at 33. At the time of the Court of Justice, the Council submitted to the National Assembly seven proposals for election to a judicial function, namely, the District Court of Justice in Novi Gorica, the five District Judges in the District Court in Lendava, Ljubljana, Novi Gorica, Piranu, Šmaru near Jelšah and finally, the Judge for Offences in the Judge for Ptuj’s Offences. Does the representative of the Judicial Council want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposals were addressed by the committee responsible. Does the president want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Does any of the Messengers want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We're moving on to decision-making. May I have your attention, please? We will vote on seven proposals, first of all on the decision to elect Ms Suzanne Contestabil to serve as a judge at the district court in the District Court in Novi Gorica. Let's vote! We vote on the election of Mrs. Suzanne Contessabil! 57 present. 49 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Andreja Granfol Cizej to the judicial office of the District Court in Lendava. We're voting. 52 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Ms Mojce Rape to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court of Ljubljana. We're voting. 55 in attendance, 47 in, no in. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Polona Klančič to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Novi Gorica. We're voting. 53 present, 47 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Dragica Umek to the judicial office of the District Court in the District Court in Piran. We're voting. 50 in attendance, 43 in, no in. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I am voting on the motion for a ruling on the election of Mrs Carmen Kus to the judicial office of the District Court in the district court in Šmarje pri Jelšah. We're voting. 49 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Finally, I am putting to the vote the motion for a ruling on the election of Mr Miha Žnidaršič to the judicial office of the Judge for Offences in the Judge for Ptuj offences. We're voting. 53 present, 49 for, none against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. This allows us, colleagues and colleagues, to go back to the 27th TIME OF THE DAY, to debate and decide on the amendments tabled. We are in the middle of second reading when adopting the Rules of Procedure and Article 65. Three amendments are tabled under Article 65. Anybody want to talk about them? I'm guessing we won't and we'll move on to decision-making. Let's go in order. First, we vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 65. We're voting. 59 present. 57 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Let's vote on the amendment under order number two. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 2 to 65. 55 present. 15 for, 40 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We also decide on the third amendment tabled under Article 65. Let's vote! We are in the middle of the vote on the third amendment to Article 65. 59 present. 15 for, 43 for. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the proposal did not receive support. Let us vote on Article 65 as a whole. Let's vote on Article 65 as a whole! 59 present. 51 for, 7 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have three amendments tabled for Article 68. Anybody want a word about them? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the first amendment. It is, of course, excluded by amendment number 2 and 3. Let's vote! Peace in the hall! Let's vote on the amendment under order number one! 60 present. 13 for, 43 for. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Protty 43.]] I take it that the amendment's proposal has not been supported. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! Let's vote on the amendment under order number two! 57 present. 49 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still have an amendment under order number 3, which we are voting on. Let's vote on the amendment under order number three. 59 present. 46 for, 8 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote on the whole article! I'm asking for peace in the hall! Let's vote on the whole article! 60 present. 51 for, 6 for. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have two amendments to Article 69. I'm opening a debate on them. Nobody wants a word. We will first decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 69. Let's vote! Let's vote. 61 present, 52 in, one in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has received support. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. 61 present, 13 for, 44 vs. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. This way we can vote on Article 69 as a whole. We vote on the text of Article 69 in its entirety. 62 in attendance, 52 in, 6 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the text is confirmed. We have two amendments to Article 71. The amendment is being ruled out. I'm opening a debate on them. Comrade Sok wants a word. Only colleague Sok has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u168	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I think that this is also one of those points that we have dealt with for a very long time in the previous proposal of the Rules of Procedure. The point is that this Rules of Procedure prevent Members from being able to replicate if they assess that their statement in the debate of the other Member has not been correctly summarised or correct. The applicant proposes that the replica is not allowed, except for the President’s assessment that the references in the replica were incorrect. We wonder, however, how it is possible for the President to assess whether the references in the replica were incorrect. In fact, this will repeatedly put the Chairman before, I would say, the dilemma of what to do because it is easy for Members to challenge his decision. We therefore propose that the last sentence of Article 71 be deleted, which means that the replica would be allowed. The same proposal, just slightly differently written down, and also suggests a customer of young people, so a replica of the replica is allowed. Given that there are two amendments that are being excluded, we are withdrawing the first amendment to this article and are proposing that only the second amendment, the amendment tabled by the youth party, be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u169	You withdraw the amendment under order number 1 so that only the amendment under order number 2 remains in the discussion. This must be taken into account. Comrade Jerovšek, you have applied for your word. I suggest there's no interference with your performance there. Please. Just a minute! My friend Jakich, please! Comrade Jakič, colleague Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u170	Thank you very much. This Article is also one of the key to understanding parliamentary democracy and the breadth of the thinking of this National Assembly. In fact, it has often been stated here that in other parliaments replication is not possible. I can personally see that this is possible in a country with an extraordinary parliamentary tradition, and therefore, of course, I am against the fact that I remain a diction and written down as it is written here. My colleague Sok wondered how, if left like this, the chairman would assess that the references in the replica were incorrect. In fact, it's a unique thought. However, in terms of what has been written here, the previous Rules of Procedure have already been misused. Unfortunately, I have to say, it's often happened to me that someone in my head saw me, said, "I don't allow a replica because what you're going to say..." or something like that. It's been abused so far. I hope that we are democratic in this House, that there will be no excuse for not knowing how much time it takes or what it takes. It's a classic institute, and I hope he stays. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u171	Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on the only amendment tabled to Article 71, which is now an amendment under order number 2 on which we vote. Let's vote on the amendment under order number two! From 61 present 22 to 38. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the amendment has not received the necessary support and we therefore vote on the text of Article 71 in its entirety. Let us vote on the text of Article 61 in its entirety! 63 present. 45 for, 17 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it you need a majority for that. One amendment has been tabled for Article 72. Anybody want a word about him? I conclude the debate and decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 72. 62 present. 39 for, 19 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 19.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. Let us therefore vote on the text of the article in its entirety! 70 present. 58 for, 10 for. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have three amendments to Article 73, colleagues and colleagues. We're on page 10 of the review. Anybody want a word on the amendments? A colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u172	Thank you very much. In the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia we have tabled two amendments to this article. The first concerns that before the final vote on the proposal for a decision, the representative of the Group of Members has time to explain the vote of the Group of Members. We believe that 3 minutes to explain the parliamentary group are absolutely too short a time and we went here in a still short time, but after my assessment of the satisfactory time, 5 minutes. It's the first amendment. I hope that the parliamentary groups will also support it. However, the second amendment concerns the right to explain the vote of all Members, not only if the Member does not agree with the explanation of the vote of his Group of Members expressed by the Head of the Group or by the representative of the Group of Members. I think that I should have, and should have, the right of all Members to explain their voice in a really short time, these are two minutes, as proposed here. I therefore believe that these two amendments are very important and, of course, worthy of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u173	My friend, Dr. Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u174	Well, surely the words 3 minutes long are too short to present the opinion of the entire parliamentary group. About our second, here's the third amendment, but that's what I'd say. Many times, and you also see that, honourable Members of the ruling coalition, you agree in principle with the opinion delivered by the representative of your parliamentary group. You can see that these presentations and these opinions have a lot of shades, and sometimes, you feel it yourself, complement it, or give another personal connotation to it. Here in Parliament, however, the explanation of our vote is so important that we should not let it go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u175	There's too much commotion in the hall to listen to. We have three reports. Comrade Sok, colleague Drobnic, colleague Barovic. In a row, Comrade Sok, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u176	Thank you. It seems to me that the wording in this proposal, which states in the second paragraph, that a Member may explain his vote only if he disagrees with the explanation of the vote of his parliamentary group, is incorrect. However, the parliamentary group does not vote, but each Member votes for itself, and each Member should be so independent that the vote can be decided and voted on its own conscience. You keep telling this story in this House over and over and over again. That's why I think this third amendment needs to be supported. The amendment under number 2 and 1 also states that, of course, each Member has the right to explain his position, his voice before the vote and how he will vote. Once again, however, the Member is autonomous in this matter and is not linked to the Group of Members. However, as regards three minutes to explain the vote on behalf of the leader of the parliamentary group, there is, of course, no explanation for the vote in three minutes, not even five minutes. If we wanted to make some progress in the Rules of Procedure, we could give unlimited time to explain the vote of the Group, not to foresee this rule of procedure for three minutes; in fact, in three minutes we can only say hello and thank you for getting the word, says two more, three sentences and three minutes passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u177	Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u178	Thank you so much for saying that. In order for the Member to have the opportunity to explain his vote only if he does not agree with the explanation of the vote of his delegation, it is totally unacceptable. Even in terms of three or five minutes, I think we're too hairy here and limit it to three minutes -- this is just going to whistle. As a rule, however, by explaining our voice at some normal time, I think many times in three minutes. However, if there is something more in-depth to be explained, let us leave three minutes for the President not to interrupt and we will not have a problem with it. I think it's pointless to give three or five minutes and give a little more. This will not save time, but especially if we act on other things, when submitting a law to make it better. So, [[...]] [[Sound signal.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u179	Thank you very much. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u180	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm going to say, I'm going to say, very patiently, that all three amendments are worth considering. In particular, I estimate that the second and third amendments are identical. I would certainly say that - let's leave it first, my assessment is that the proposal of the first amendment is correct and smart, let's leave this assessment to each individual - the second and third are certainly worth the attention. I appreciate that, at least in a democratic country, in Parliament, every Member has the right to explain his vote before the final vote on the motion for a decision, whether he agrees or disagrees. I am sure that, despite all the efforts that we have to make, the applicants will also understand that this is perhaps the right one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u181	Anyone else want a word? I note that no and that I can conclude the debate on the three amendments tabled under Article 73, but I note that the second and third exclusions are the same in their Consequence, so that in the event of a second vote the vote on the third would be irrelevant. We shall first vote on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. Out of 67 present 20 for, 46 versus. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We are voting on the amendment under order number two! Let's vote on the amendment under order number two! 69 present. 24 for, 40 for. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. Let's vote on the whole article! I'm sorry to consult. Just a minute. I'll put the third amendment to the vote. I'm putting an amendment to the vote under order number three. 66 present. 58 for, 5 for. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment under order number three has received support. We are now voting on the whole article! Let's vote on the whole article! 65 present. 57 for, 7 for. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that we have adopted the text. One amendment has been tabled for Article 74. Anybody want to talk about him? My friend Dr. Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u182	It's probably just a correction. There are many times no leaders of the parliamentary group, but he is his deputy, who is named here as a representative of the parliamentary group. This is probably how the proposer felt that if there was no leader of the parliamentary group, then someone else could take over his post, following the delegation's internal agreement. I therefore suggest you support this amendment. I warn you only because it is in effect that anywhere below is written by the SDS, NSI, votes against. It doesn't make any sense here. That's it. It's a routine, so I'm warning you, it's a smart amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u183	Please, please, please, please, please, I'll wait for the hall to calm down. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 74! 63 present. 37 for, 22 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 22.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. Let's vote on the whole article! 60 present. 43 for, 15 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 15.]] I understand that we have voted on this proposal. One amendment has been tabled for Article 92. Anybody want a word about him? Please, Comrade Sok. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u184	I would like to explain the amendment to Article 92. The fifth paragraph of Article 92, which is bound by secret ballots in the National Assembly, states: "The unfulfilled voice and the voice from which the will of Members is not clearly indicated are invalid." We propose that this paragraph be amended. So the amendment by the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party says: "A voice that is not fulfilled in accordance with the preceding paragraph is invalid." So this is a known situation in the previous Parliament. We are convinced that a more restrictive rule should apply to the votes of Members than is the case with the general elections. Indeed, what is enshrined in this draft Rules of Procedure applies to elections or applies to all citizens. It is said that every ballot from which the will of the electorate is reflected is valid. However, for professional policies such as Members, this should of course be more precise and we have therefore written down that any ballot which is not completed as stated in Article 92, paragraph 4. We propose that you support this amendment and that we leave it written down now, in the present Rules of Procedure, the established way of voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u185	Thank you. My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u186	I think this amendment, however we look at it, makes sense because I have participated in these procedures many times. In the last election, it happened that someone must have made a mistake, and he crossed "against" and he circled "against" and we considered it invalid. That's what happened. And now that the Commission will always say, from case to case when it is elected, whether it is clear what he was thinking and saying at the time, because no one can know what he was thinking or what his will was in different cases. Sometimes they're drawing with their hearts, and there's some adjectives and so on, and I think that what a colleague has said is that if we're Members and professional Members, we need to know how to round these things up, and that we don't have to go to the election boards to make all kinds of complications, it seems to me that this amendment, at least for me, if we were ever on an election committee, or any of you would be on an election committee, would leave all the doubts behind. That's why I'll back him up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u187	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u188	In principle, I do not object to this matter, but this provision is prescribed from the electoral law to the National Assembly, the election law of the President of the State, the election law to the State Council and so on. So for all citizens there is a provision and it is also prescribed for this national assembly. This is the case here when the will is clearly expressed, and if someone else is mistaken in the first round, there must be a possibility of this judgment. I say that in principle I do not object, but the provision which is prescribed in at least three general laws on elections in this country and is valid for all elections and I think it would be right to apply to the National Assembly as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u189	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u190	The question here is whether a Member may be wrong. Of course, anyone can be wrong. However, one can make a mistake on purpose and then cause a complication such as it was and could be monitored by the whole of Slovenia at the time. I was not a Member at the time, but as an ordinary citizen, I would say some form of farce as to whether or not the voice is valid. To avoid this, of course, there should be a more restrictive provision for the National Assembly, once again, for professional policy. If the messenger is wrong, he still has the chance to report it to the election committee and then he can get it, I'd say new [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u191	I'm asking for peace in the hall! Could not close temporary folder: %s
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u192	I think anyone can replicate and answer me, and then you can sign up. So, I'm sure it should be clearly defined because we know this complication and this complication has had certain consequences and we know, let's say, how did the public react to a particular situation at the time. As a result, since we know this complication, this possibility should be prevented in the new Rules of Procedure. It is said that only the voice on which it is clearly surrounded by "for" or "against" is valid. If the voice box is otherwise completed, it shall be void. And if we put it in the rules of procedure and stick to it all, there is no dilemma. Besides, if we don't stick to things, then whatever we write, it doesn't matter. I agree with that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u193	Just so there's no misunderstanding, Comrade Sok. If, in the case of your amendment, the Member or Member State has erred or erred, it is entitled to clarify its will regarding the question. Pika. He can't make up his mind. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will vote on the amendment proposal under order number 1. 66 present, 22 for, 43 versus. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let's vote on Article 92 as a whole! 63 present, 47 for, 12 versus. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the article has been voted out. For the next amendment on page 11 of your review, we have one amendment to each article. First, I am opening the debate on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 99. Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u194	The delegation shall withdraw this amendment to Article 99.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u195	The withdrawal of the amendment. Let's go to the amendment to Article 102. Anybody want a word? My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u196	Well, maybe I don't fully understand. What about the retreat? Are we at the 102nd? 7
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u197	We're at Rule 102. Please don't disturb Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u198	An amendment is submitted here to delete the last sentence in paragraph 3. In fact, a meeting of the home working body or of the national assembly may be held on a proposal from the chairman to close the public. However, this latter part states that the decision to close the meeting to the public shall be taken without the presence of journalists. So I don't know, I don't understand how this can be done. So when this proposal comes to light - I don't quite understand the interpretation of this provision - when it comes to this proposal, the decision to remove journalists is taken first, and then a closure decision is taken - or what is voted on first? So I don't know, I'm asking the proponents what they meant by that. That is why we propose with this amendment that this sentence be deleted because it is obvious - I do not know whether I am wrong in interpreting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u199	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm asking for peace in the hall. We are at the amendment to Article 102 and I put this to the vote. Present 62, 13 for, 44 versus. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it that the proposal did not receive support. We are voting on the whole article. For 48, 6 out of 58 present. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. The Rules of Procedure Commission has tabled an amendment to Article 108. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 108. We're voting. 67 present, 59 for, one against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 108 in full. 56 for, 3 to 64 present. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I'm guessing the article's been confirmed. We have an amendment to Article 109. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 109. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to 109: 58 for, 3 against 67 present. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on the full text of the article. We vote on the full text of the article. 52 for and 2 for 60 present. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against two.]] The text is fully adopted. On the 11th and 12th pages of the review, two amendments have been tabled. A colleague of mags. A visor. Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u200	Thank you so much for saying that. This article discusses the content or the elements to be covered by the proposal for a law. Here we propose in this amendment, because this content is a little more complex here. I believe that if, when a text is tabled or the bill does not contain all the elements or some elements are assessed, it may also be lacking that it has only a transitional period or a time limit for supplementing this proposal. Because otherwise someone could have estimated - I don't know that, for example, the display of regulation in other legal systems is not properly defined and would have rejected this initiative. I don't think that's right and we could follow the example of imperfect roles here and of course of a time frame within which this application or this bill should be completed. In particular, I think this is important for the opposition Members, because we do not have the source of information that the government has. And it seems to me that some of the elements that should be covered by the introduction of the bill - we should also have some reserves to complement it, so we propose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u201	Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] We shall first vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 116. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 116. 59 for, 2 to 62 present. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment received support. Amendment under order number 2. We're voting. Amendment number two, we vote. Peace in the hall. 40 versus 18 for 60 present. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] He didn't get any support. We are voting on the whole article. For 57, 5 to 65 present. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against the 5.]] This means that we have a full vote. The two amendments are also tabled in the text of Article 118. Anybody want a word about them? I'm guessing, Comrade Rokavec, I'm just warning you that you're shutting down. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u202	Thank you for your word. The Group tabled an amendment to Article 118, in particular on the basis of the Secretariat's warnings on legislation. Indeed, it is only a warning that I quote: "Re-warning given under the previous procedure to re-examine whether the proposed provisions establishing the order of treatment of laws governing the same social relationship sufficiently ensure the realization of the right to legal initiative." And then finally, "the college sets a timetable for dealing with all such bill proposals". In fact, both the Rules of Procedure amendment and our amendment are different. In particular, the difference is that the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Commission makes it possible to deal with as many of the content of the law as possible at the same meeting. In the parliamentary group, we point out that, for the first time, either there is a lack of clarity or a question here, I would also like to have the answer from the secretariat for legislation, how it will be possible to include both laws under one point. Proposal to deal with both draft laws governing the same social relationship. And a second time. In fact, this way, the decision of the college, which was originally meant to set its own order of laws, can be passed on to the parental committee, of course, because it will also be possible for the majority to actually merge both laws, and in the end, it is likely that only a proposal that, to the extent of the majority, will actually vote and conclude the legislative procedure. It is said that it will not be possible for this particular case to be discussed only on an individual proposal for a law. I therefore believe that there is a much clearer provision with the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, which clearly delimits what is the procedure and order of the examination of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u203	Thank you very much. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u204	I would support this amendment if I had a real chance of getting support. However, since the Commission has followed both the opinion of the Secretariat and the will, let's say conditionally, the majority of Members in the National Assembly, has actually settled the issue in a way that leaves the initiative on the one hand for Members to make laws and, in any case, comes first. And if, for example, five laws have been tabled, in this case, both yours and ours, or the Rules of Procedure Commission, that, like others, it is always a government law, except in the case of urgent procedures. And since we are rational, it is also right, in this case, that if several laws have been tabled that regulate the same social relationship, that everyone should be treated, but certainly also the government at the same time, that the mother's labour body should determine how it will prepare the final proposal for the assembly, that all the laws that have been tabled by then go to the assembly. So that the assembly decides, let's say, on the law passed by the xy MP and on the law that the government has laid down by means of a rapid or now urgent procedure to decide both at the same time. I come when it comes to regular procedures, but always the first one to come into the procedure is the first one to come into the procedure, and secondly, the government, if, say, some other laws had already been introduced. And this, I think, is rational and correct, that on the one hand, the initiative of Members to invest in laws is intact and on the other hand, the government is given at least enough opportunity in urgent procedures to come to the labour force to deal with it and then the assembly is decided between one or the other law. This solution is also in line with the opinion of the secretariat presented on the Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u205	A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u206	Well, because, colleague Anderlič, the third paragraph of the amendment of the parliamentary group to Article 118 defines this possibility - that, in case of urgent proceedings, the Government's proposal has priority in any case. But fear is next. In fact, if the mother's labour body decides to consider both laws or more bills - to merge this consideration. I do not think that it is clear in the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Commission which law or proposal of law will be followed up and so on. I think that this matter is not sufficiently fragmented and that there is actually a lack of clarity in the implementation, I point out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u207	Did we explain everything? Can we make a decision? Please. We will vote first - I ask for peace, I have not given a word to anyone! - the amendment under order number 1 to Article 118. 67 present, 11 for, 50 versus. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 50.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We will now decide on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 118. The amendment was not supported by 58 votes to 65. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. Now we're going to the whole article, and then we're going to go to the bound amendment, which means, to the 140th Article and to the new 127th Article. We will first vote on the whole article. The article has been voted on. 60 out of 68 for, 3 against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're going to page 14 now. Could you please be careful? On page 14 of the review, where we will decide on the proposal for a new 127.a. because it is linked to the previous one. Let's vote! I ask for peace and attention, because we are now jumping over the pages in the amendment review for connection. 58 for and 1 for 66. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We're going to page 17 of your review. We're on page 17. The amendment was tabled under Article 140. We will vote on it. I'm asking for peace in the hall! We're on page 17. We are voting on the 140th article on the amendment. He's got support. Heading 53 for, 1 to 61. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I suggest that the article remain open, i.e. 140th, and we will make a full decision on it. Now we're going to page 13, 120. Anybody want a word? My friend Sok. Peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u208	Thank you for your word. Given that Article 25 has not received sufficient support and, therefore, the possibility for the college to also decide when a preliminary hearing is to be held, we propose that this amendment be supported and that the last paragraph of Article 120 should be adopted by the competent working body. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u209	Anyone else? Nobody. Let's vote! Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 120. He didn't get any support. 42 versus, only 21 for 67. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let's vote on the whole article! Watch out! The whole article. 49, 12 to 64. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 123. Anybody want a word? My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u210	Thank you very much. I propose to my colleagues and colleagues that we adopt the proposed amendment to Article 123. For the parliamentary group is a whole at this time, there are also parliamentary groups that have, I don't know, 4, 6 - however - in the coming period, parliamentary groups that will have a different number will be possible. With a certain number of restrictions, as proposed in the Rules of Procedure, I do not think, and I think it would be good if the amendment to the 123rd Article, which is proposed, were also accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u211	There's too much noise in the decision room. I'll wait a second. Anyone else want a word? I'm closing the debate. We are going to decide on the amendment to Article 123. We're voting. Peace in the hall. 68 present, 24 to, 41 to. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 41.]] He didn't get the support he needed. We vote on the text as a whole. We vote on the text as a whole. He received 48 votes in favour, 9 against 60. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The text is fully adopted. We go to the 14th page of the review and to Article 126. I'm opening a debate. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 126 on the 14th page of the review. Peace during the vote! 66 present, 22 for, 39 versus. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 39.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We vote on the text of Article 126 in its entirety. I'm asking for peace. 63 present, 50 for, 8 versus. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The article has been voted on. We have already decided on the new 127.a. Thus, we can now move on to two amendments, which are tabled under Article 129. I'm opening a debate. Since no one wants a word, will we vote first - do you want a word, Comrade Barovic? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u212	Once again I call for the understanding of my colleague and colleague, and sometimes it comes to - if I take this case, allow me this case, just the internal policy committee that has, I think, as much as 2/3 of all the committee work. There are many times when amendments, as far as they are concerned with Article 129, are made on different requirements and requirements, at different times. And again I call for understanding: not to limit because - well, I understand 2/3 logical options - not to limit to such a long period. I suggest to my colleagues that we just consider the amendment, the first amendment to Article 129, and that we also take it into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u213	Anyone else? My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u214	I wonder if the invitation and the material will only be four days before the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u215	That was the question? Or a rhetorical question, colleague Tsukati? Proposaler, matter of construction four days before the meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u216	This article is, of course, designed to foresee and require and must happen that the material must be at least seven days earlier, and everything is linked to the timetable. And since you will know one month earlier which item will be on the agenda, which day in one month, you will be in that time - but from that planned time you will count down so many days ago. Most of the problems, I believe, are that we allow both the government and ourselves, that we receive amendments to the meetings of the assembly, that we do not have quality secretariat positions, that we do not have quality government positions and so on, and, of course, if this were planned, organised and planned, then these things would be more thorough. It is true that they are forcing greater organisation and that they require these things to be prepared in advance and not in the last moment. However, as far as the specific question is concerned, the material must be essential earlier, otherwise it cannot reach the point if the material is not available, since other articles stipulate that the item on the agenda should not go at all. And more, even the government, for example, must not make amendments to their laws and so on, which is now often at the last moment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u217	My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u218	Well, the point is that the rules of procedure provide all the services with sufficient time to prepare materials for the meeting. And here they'll have five days to set up, coordinate the amendments, collect them, and so on. That's very nice and good. I wonder how long it has been given to the Member from the moment he receives the last material for the Committee's meeting, and until then who has to make the amendment. It must certainly be at least ten days if it takes a secretary five days to arrange the amendments and give them in a row - at least ten days. Please, where does this say and where is this guaranteed? That's why I'm asking. I think we're really moving around here with the rot and we're gonna find after a few months that these things can't run like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u219	Yes or no? Yeah. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u220	See, the timetable assumes that there will be no laws in the deadline that will not have any material and that will not be able to go into procedure. It's here for the candidates and for those other, I'd say, discounts along with, if this goes - say - for the law of parliament or for the government. But I think that within the procedure and within the other rules governing the convening of the sitting, whether the parent working body or the assembly will be provided for this reserve, in which all of this should happen. If there are no restrictions, then of course everything will go on the last day on the tables as it is happening to us now. That's the point.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u221	Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, But the replica isn't a controversy. I think the views were exchanged. Only if there's any other explanation. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u222	I don't think I understand. On the contrary, I have read this text several times, and I have not found anywhere to assure Members that they will receive the material in time so that they can table amendments five days before the performance or before the meeting of the committee. However, one day, two days, is not enough to submit an amendment. I couldn't find a guarantee anywhere. Please tell me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u223	My friend Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u224	Thank you very much. In principle, I am pleased that we have also begun to discuss the legislative process, which is a serious and major change in the rules of procedure. So far we've only talked about things that, as far as I'm concerned, were relatively much less important. But with regard to this specific provision, I explicitly support it, because there will be no chance for Members to prepare themselves for the debate. The Member will receive the law on the legislative procedure, a group of Members will be able to request a general debate within 15 days, and will then be present at the assembly. Otherwise, the deadline will provide for when a law will be dealt with. It's gonna be great. Without the law being promulgated; it is not possible to talk about it being classified at all. And ask if we'll have a law at our disposal to prepare the amendments. Of course we will! We'll have at least one month before that, and we'll be able to prepare for the amendments. And we'll know it's going to be in some kind of session. Why does it take five days now? For two reasons. Because the members of the coalition and the opposition will have to decide on the content of the law at this meeting. And we also need to know about the amendment so that we can decide whether or not to support it or not, or whether we will come up with a working body and we will not be able to make a qualified decision. And the last thing that is, say, less important to us Members. On this basis, too, the applicant will have four more days to say, to study the amendment and then to submit his amendment 24 hours before the meeting, which we have to get back to the Members, otherwise it is not possible to make a quality decision. Once again, I am pleased that we have begun to speak in the legislative process. From the start, I say that this is the most demanding chapter and the most difficult change in the rules of procedure, and I am also afraid of how and how long we will get used to it in a new way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u225	First of all, it's too chatty. Secondly, two colleagues were reported for discussion. In the order of colleague Barovic and then colleague Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u226	Once again, dear fellows and colleagues! I fully agree that the Rules of Procedure introduce some order. I agree with everything that's been said, but we don't live and we don't work in ideal conditions. I'll give the case one more time, and the president of the Internal Policy Committee can confirm it. This committee has a agenda - I'll give it a case because I have to give it. This committee has some agenda that was set a month ago. But we're jumping from point to point on this agenda. I happen to know four days before the point - I will say - of public self-government in this session, that we will move from the agenda set to a point four days before the meeting. I have no opportunity to make any amendments in four, five days, I can make an amendment the moment we discuss matters when these matters are clarified. This is a picture of practice. And in fact, here I have to stress again, Dr. Sugar is right, we don't have any previous guards. We don't. We don't have guards to work normally. If we were to work normally, I agree. Five days earlier, the Member may normally read the amendments in order to harmonise them. I agree. If we regulate all procedures as we speak. Look at what is happening today in this session: at half past three or at the end of the session we are, I still say, and this is not a criticism, nor does it judge here that we have violated the rules of procedure. We agreed that we would, I don't know, place a point at half past three, but it wasn't agreed on either at the College of the National Assembly or anything. I understand, if I am in a hurry, I am also in. And yet, we break and jump. Jumping from point to point and this is impossible - to demand then through the rules of procedure! Because then, let's say, today, four days before the treatment of public administration, we're going to want to table an amendment and they're going to say: you can't, because the rules of procedure stipulate that you have to put it in five days earlier. I want all of us to understand this together, dear colleagues and colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u227	Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. So when I did a little math, what does five days mean? This means that when the parent working bodies are in session: Wednesday, Thursday and Friday - this means that someone will have the opportunity to submit on Friday, under the date of Friday, some changes, amendments and then the matter is closed. That is to say, whoever could possibly intervene will not have this option. That the government will probably be the last one to give up hers is perfectly clear. That is to say, the reply of the Member or the Group of Members will not be possible! That's the first one. It's just a finding, by the way, what five days means. That's what I'd say. What Mr Anderlich and Ptrč said at first glance would be accepted in theory with open arms. For I am also one of those who criticizes that we receive just as much on the bench of various amendments or on the working bodies. So after this salary theoretically everything is great. But I'm just afraid you've probably talked about some other government or you're going to change the government. Because, otherwise, I can't imagine the government changing its ways. And also this claim: the government will not be able to make a proposal and we will not put it on the agenda at the national assembly. I can't imagine. And I really want to experience this. And if this rules of procedure make it possible, then I am already looking forward to this new rules of procedure. Or, I don't know if those words that have been spoken here in this House still apply, that there is no god to convince anyone. But I fear that this will not be the case and that this article - which is theoretically very good - I must admit - will in practice be very problematic and I am a little afraid of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u229	Thank you very much. Just a minute. I think there was someone else in front of you. Comrade Visak? No, no, no. Comrade Visjak, you have the floor. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u230	I will tell you just one example that I felt on my own last week, 14 days ago, or even three weeks ago, when we were considering the amendment of the Public Finance Act and we practically rewrote this novel on the Finance Committee, and when I asked the State Secretary from the Ministry whether they knew that there was going to be some change in the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which also affected the functioning of the government. She said, "Yeah, we heard something, but this is your business, you'll take care of it." In short, it is clear that we will be able to have, in particular during the transitional period, this transitional period will likely be until the end of the mandate, with some difficulties in implementing this legislative procedure. My colleagues' thoughts are in place, and I have a lot of them myself. Whether and how we will improvise at some point until, of course, we get used to this new legislative process. Not just us. We will probably get it faster than all those proposing - especially those proposing to force matters through the emergency procedure. That is why I think that it would be appropriate to have a minister, or a Prime Minister, here and there, in order to understand the seriousness of these changes, which are promised by this Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u231	I'm closing the debate. We are in Article 129 and two amendments have been tabled. We shall first vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! May I have your attention, please? He did not receive support: 39 votes in favour, 26 against 66. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 2 you have on page 15. It has not been voted against by 44 votes to 20 with 68 votes. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are now voting on a full article of the text. Let us vote on the article in its entirety! The article was voted 49 votes in favour, 18 against 69. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 18.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We move on to the only amendment tabled to Article 131. There's no debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 131. We're voting. He didn't get any support. 42 versus, 18 for 61. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are voting on the whole article. The proposal received support: 49 for, 14 to 64. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the proposal has received support. Article 132 is the amendment under which this Article is deleted. Anybody want a word about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to delete Article 132. He didn't get any support: 46 versus 22 for 69. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We therefore vote on the whole article. He's got support: 54 for, 13 for 70. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 13.]] I'm guessing the article's got support. With regard to Article 134, we have three amendments tabled on pages 15 and 16, which are mutually exclusive. I don't see any deadlines raised, which means we can get to the vote. We move to a vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 134. We're voting. He's got support: 49 for, 3 for 60. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against three.]] I find that the amendment has received support; the last two have thus become irrelevant. We are voting on the whole article. 46 for, 6 for 63. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against six.]] I'm guessing the article's got support. On the 16th page of our review, you will find three amendments to Article 135. Anybody want a word about them? [[Nobody.]] We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 135. He didn't get any support: 45 versus, 16 for 62. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. There's too much noise in the Assembly Hall. Nor did this one receive the necessary support: 42 vs., 14 for out of 63. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 3. 52, 6 versus 59 present. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let's vote on the whole article! He received support: 46 for, 8 to 61 present. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. On page 17, you have one amendment to Article 136. There's no desire to discuss it. Let's vote! Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 136. Please do not receive support: 40 vs, 16 for, 58 present. [[...]] [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I assure you, the amendment has not been accepted. Let's vote on the whole article! Let's vote on the whole article! 64 present, 48 for, 10 versus. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Let's go to Article 138. We have an amendment. Nobody wants a word. We decide on the amendment. We decide on the amendment to Article 138 to delete it. Against 43, for 17, 64 present. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let's vote on the whole article! Let's vote on the whole article! 48 for, 11 against 63. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. At 140th, we had already decided on the amendment. We are now voting only on the text. Is it clear? Okay. Let us vote on the text of Article 140 in its entirety! Order! Let us vote on the text of Article 140 in its entirety. We've already decided on the amendment. 64 are present, 49 for, 9 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I assure you, the article has been adopted. We have two amendments to Article 143. Anybody want a word about them? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u232	Thank you. I would only ask the proposer if, perhaps by one case, he or she is working on what "hard-to-reparable consequences for the functioning of the country" means. Maybe with one case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u233	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u234	Yeah, I think we've got quite a few cases of practice so far. For example, I see a minister there waiting for the next item. Yesterday it came with one request for an extraordinary session, because it would probably have a difficult remedial effect on the country if the assembly had not responded to such a proposal. There's probably something else like that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u235	Are you satisfied with the answer? Two reported. Comrade Sok, colleague Visjak. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u236	Thank you for your word. If you look at the review of these amendments by the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party, we propose that this debate be deleted from the proposal for this Article. It is said that this Article deletes what was asked by colleague Barovic and then leaves paragraph 1 that the urgency procedure is possible when it comes to the adoption of a law on the State's security or defence purposes or to remedy the consequences of natural disasters. So what has been added here is to prevent the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country, under this company, and, of course, it is possible to include everything under this dictatorship, including this matter, which is now pointed out by Ambassador Anderlič as an example. Thus, the development plan, the construction of motorways in 2002, must be adopted on 31 and 28 March in order not to have a severe remedial effect on the operation of this country. So, under [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u237	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u238	Such excuses will, of course, also take place when this Rules of Procedure are adopted. [[...]] Most of the laws in my experience, in one year in this House, I was able to learn and learn that everything under this cover was accepted by a rapid procedure. So now instead of the term "swift procedure", the word "emergency procedure" is introduced. And in order not to have a difficult remedial effect, every law that the government remembers will be adopted by means of an emergency procedure. So if we really want to prevent the irreparable consequences for the functioning of this country, then this 2002 plan should be adopted at least in December 2001. This would be some normal adoption of plans and laws in some country. However, it is not that the plan for 2002 is adopted on 31 March and that the quarter of the year is over when this plan starts to work will be over for more than a quarter of a year. So, this case, of course, is not an example of the urgent and irreparable consequences for the functioning of this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u239	Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u240	Thank you very much. I would like to comment somewhat on the second amendment to Article 143, which speaks of the possibility for Members to propose the adoption of a law by emergency procedure. It is true that the government is responsible for the functioning of this country, although we want to collect or dispel this guilt on a number of occasions when something goes wrong; we want to collect or scatter this responsibility as widely as possible; we are all, because we are all little guilty of it, and this responsibility is often rather vague or vaguely presented. Nevertheless, I am convinced that we are members of the group, in particular the opposition Members and the parliamentary group, those who can and can detect these proposals, which are an argument for urgent procedures. I think it would be bad to prevent this initiative for Members of Parliament. Therefore, we propose that this amendment should only remain in this possibility for Members to propose it as a matter of urgency. It is true, however, that, I would say, the law enforcement service, which will assess what has been put in place on the ground of urgency and what is not, will have to be more active and stricter here not only to the proposals put forward, but mainly to government proposals. I therefore believe that, in order to avoid the use of this urgent procedure in the context of the government, it is right and proper that the applicants may also be Members. I think that if for reasons we increase this approach or the entry into the law by emergency procedure also into the parliamentary procedure, we will do the most. Therefore, let us maintain this possibility for Members to propose laws following an urgent procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u241	My friend Peterle. Oh, I'm sorry! My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u242	Perhaps it would be better if something else had to be explained, but it is a typical replica that is likely to be established in the future. I was not even talking about the annual highway construction programme for 2002, but I was talking about the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, which we had yesterday at 5:30 p.m., when we adopted the law following an urgent procedure to extend the guarantee of the state of Adria, so that it could fly to certain countries. And I really don't know, but I'm sure there would be very difficult consequences for the country if the national carrier couldn't, say, fly to a country I don't know, not just because of tourists, not just because I don't know what, but because of something else. This would be difficult to repair for the country, and I think it would be the only country that would not handle it in this way. However, this is something that could not be predicted, and even yesterday we have found that we cannot predict what will happen after the end of this law. So that such an example - and this is probably the most typical example - cannot be plunged into natural disasters, even though it could be for security reasons, even perhaps I do not know the defence and so on. In short, there are things that are somehow predicted in this way. And yesterday we had a case like this, and that's why I referred to Mr. President, who defended this law here yesterday.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u243	Look, about cell phones, I don't want to warn more than I need to, but I would ask you to keep your strength down so that you don't disturb others. Here we go, Comrade Peterle, colleague Barovic, colleague Sok. That's how you signed up for the word. I can't help it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u244	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am afraid that if the practice of law becomes law, then only the laws proposed by the opposition will follow the normal procedure, and anything else will be possible after the emergency. By allowing this to happen again, I repeat, if what happened again was what took place in the two mandates - a different coalition here than in the government, that government, even when justified reasons, would have to go through the law by emergency procedure, the college would have decided not to go. I therefore propose that, however, as many objective criteria as possible be laid down and that we in Parliament only determine whether the applicant should be a government or someone else - to see if he meets the criteria which are necessary for the procedure to be followed. Otherwise, there can be a lot of arbitration here. This amendment, at least to some extent, excludes this possibility. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u245	My friend Barovic is behind you, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u246	Thank you. I'll be very brief and constructive. Even if the first amendment, which I myself said was worth thinking about and supporting, would not be accepted, it would seem right for me, colleagues and colleagues, to draw attention to the second amendment, which speaks of the fact that in addition to the government we are talking about in such a case, the laws or amendments to the laws, or anything else, can be proposed by Members. At least this reasonableness should be considered and accepted by colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u247	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u248	I wanted to point out earlier to Mr Anderlich's implementation that the overly loose formulation in the law, of course, always offers the possibility of being used for manipulative purposes. And this case yesterday is not the real case. For yesterday's law was passed at an extraordinary meeting, and the Rules of Procedure set out specific deadlines, different hands and also different ways to deliver materials and process when an extraordinary meeting is required. We are thus more concerned that laws such as, say, simplifying the artificial fertilisation law and the like will be adopted under the cover of emergency proceedings. So there were no effects, and there were no reasons why we should be accepted in such a way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u249	I don't know if it takes so much discussion. I don't want to judge, it's not my jurisdiction, but it seems to me that everything was told if I may say so. Comrade Tuck, please. Please. You have the floor, of course. My friend Tuck. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u250	Look at this; I reiterate: we have very tightened the working conditions of Members and have very disciplined them. We didn't write anywhere "right to broadcast" or "propose amendments", "right" these days or anything like that. We haven't left them any maneuverable space. We've sharpened their working conditions. I repeat. Experience has so far shown that the government has practically shamelessly abused business regulations and has put every other law into action quickly. That is also a fact, gentlemen. This is our experience. What's in it for us? By not adopting this amendment, the government, we will not discipline in anything, it will continue its sleazy work, or even: we will have more laws by fast procedure, because it will have to make proposals even earlier, according to our requirements. And that way, we'll be in the middle of nowhere. On the one hand, we will have Members of the less maneuverable space; we will have to react more quickly to all materials. We'll get the materials later. All the materials will go as quickly as possible. I fear, my fellow Members, that in six months we will experience the collapse of this National Assembly if we leave our hands open to the government without stricter criteria for determining what it can and should not follow a swift procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u251	Please, Comrade Beumann.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u252	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I didn't mean to advertise, but the word "klaps" did upset me to the point where I had to replicate my respectable colleague Tsukati. On the contrary, I ask him, what is more than a collapse of what is happening to us at this meeting, when the rules of procedure are being abused on average and on and on and on and on and on and on again we will move a whole bunch of agenda items to the next meeting and so on. In short, it's a collapse. With this rule of procedure, however, we want to at least try to prevent future collapses. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u253	I suggest we keep our distance from the subject of discussion. Mr. Petty Officer, you wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u254	This is exactly why I wanted to intervene, Mr President, just to stop people who don't stick to the rules of procedure. And such arguments are completely irrelevant. So, here we are pulverizing, for the second time there's a rule of procedure, for "free," and we really do have laws. By calling on you to point out that Members do not discuss other matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u255	There are no further applications for discussion. I'm closing it. We are in Article 143 and the first amendment, which we are voting on immediately. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to 143! He didn't get any support. 39 were against, 17 for, out of 59 present. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. Amendment under order number 2. We're voting. He didn't get any support. 42 versus, 19 for, 62. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 42.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We vote on the text of Article 143 in its entirety. 47, 14 versus 62. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are going to the 18th page of the review, to the 144th Article and to the proposal of the Rules of Procedure Commission for the amendment. No one raised their hand for the word. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 144. Of the 62 present were 48 for, 3 against, which is enough. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the full text of the article. Present 59, 49 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We go to 147th Article and to the proposal of the Group of Members to delete the article. My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u256	On behalf of the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party, we withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u257	Withdrawal of the amendment to Article 147. We go to paragraph 153 and to the amendment to this article. There's no debate. My friend Juice, I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u258	Thank you for your word. I would just like to briefly explain the amendment to Article 153. We propose that the second paragraph, "Officially purified text be confirmed by the State Assembly without discussion", be deleted. Therefore, we do not understand why the National Assembly would confirm without discussion the officially consolidated text of a law, because in fact, then the National Assembly assumes responsibility for something that Members cannot influence. But we are in favour of this, of course, that the officially refined text is published. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u259	Thank you. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] Can I please have peace in the hall? We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an amendment to Article 153. Let's vote! 60, 37 for, 20 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 20.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. Let's vote on the whole article! 57 present, 42 to, 13 to. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Let's go to paragraph 154. There's an amendment. I'm opening a debate. There's no debate. We're moving to the vote. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 154! Present 61, 16 for, 45 versus. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 45.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. Let's vote on the whole article! 56 present, 48 for, 5 versus. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it we voted in. We're going to the 19th page of the review, Article 155. I am opening a debate that no one is asking for, so I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 155. 58 present, 45, 4 up. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the proposal has received support. Let's vote on the whole article! We are voting on the whole article. 61 present, 49 in, 4 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We're going to 156th. Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u260	Thank you for your word. Therefore, we propose to the two groups that the budget memorandum and the draft state budget, in addition to the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance, be explained by the Governor of the Bank of Slovenia. Of course, we have had such cases in the past, but then we wanted to shorten. This was probably because the Governor of Banka Slovenije was sometimes critical of the budget and, of course, we have now made this impossible and we believe that the Governor of Banka Slovenije has such a role, such power, such weight that his word needs to be heard. In the past, we have had other editors, and we believe that at least the Governor of Banka Slovenije deserves to present his view to us, showing his view of the budget for the year coming. We believe that this is completely justified and not only justified, it is a need. We therefore propose such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u261	Anyone else? I conclude the debate, we vote on it at 156th Article, the amendment and we vote on it. Peace in the hall. 63 in attendance, 24 in, 36 in. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 36.]] He didn't get any support. We are voting on Article 156 as a whole. We are voting on Article 156 as a whole. He was supported by 48 votes to 14, from 63 in attendance. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 14th.]] He's got support. Here we go to Rule 159 and on the proposal of the Rules of Procedure Commission. There is no requirement for discussion. We are voting on the proposal by the Rules of Procedure Commission for the amendment to Article 159. This one's got support. 50 for, 4 for, 60 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] He's got support. We vote on the text as a whole. We vote on the text of Article 159 in its entirety. He's got support. 43 for, 3 for, 51 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] He's got support. In Article 160 - Peace in the Chamber of Hearings - in Article 160 we have an amendment which is excluded, and we will first vote on the amendment under order number 2 and then on the amendment under order number 1. Is that clear? Yes, it is. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u262	Thank you. I would just like to remind my colleagues that we have talked a lot about this article all the time when we have talked about this Rules of Procedure. Finally, I think this is a reasonable proposal from the Rules of Procedure Commission. I therefore hope that my colleagues and colleagues will, of course, accept this amendment. For at least part of the role of the Group in this Parliament is visible and tangible from the proposed amendments, but not as it is in the proposed Rules of Procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u263	Good. My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u264	The budget is undoubtedly the key content of Parliament's decision-making. And what is happening on the subject of simplifying, deciding and limiting the parliamentary initiative on the budget is unheard of for parliamentary democracy. I mean more, of course. In order to maintain the opportunity for the Member to make amendments without having to be resolved by a quarter of the national assembly or now, as proposed by the Slovenian National Party, by a parliamentary group. That would be an extreme minimum to at least do that. That's why I support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u265	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u266	Yeah, I guess I've got to take a look at such important and elementary things. Article 160 speaks of the supplementary draft budget. So the whole procedure has already gone through. The MPs have tabled amendments. The mother's working body processed it. This was decided by the assembly. On this basis, the government has made a supplementary budget. And then, if we go again from the beginning, that everyone has that option again, it's never over. Therefore, this majority or this sharpness required for a change must be extended to a larger qualified majority, because otherwise the first reading and the second reading loses its logic. For all that Members wanted to change would be taken into account, and it would be unhygienic, if you wanted Members to, say, give no amendments at first reading and then make amendments to the supplementary budget. And in order for this to be settled in some way, it is right that the different majority for the supplementary budget is also now taken into account. Even so far, we have understood that there has been a higher required majority in the supplementary budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u267	First a colleague - I think someone has asked from here - a colleague of Peterle and then a colleague of Barovic, then a colleague of Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u268	At the beginning of Slovenian democracy there were no such restrictions, and the citizens, our voters did not elect parliamentary groups, nor did they elect a quarter of the national assembly at once, but everyone elected the MP he wanted. And the ruling majority have already chosen very cylindrical ways that "one bloc" has rejected everything that has been proposed, and it can still do so. Well, I'd just like to speak for the MP's right.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u269	My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u270	Thank you very much. Well, if you would let go of what your colleague, Mr Lois Peterle, has said, I would like to tell my colleague Tonet Anderlich the following. I fully understand all the descriptions and orises of the procedures we are talking about in Article 160, but in this House there is a parliamentary group - at least let's stay here - one parent unit, one parent cell representing some structure, some number of people, some political option, some political view. It is not right to start a group of Members anywhere, in any article of the Rules of Procedure, which relates to decision-making, regardless of height. That is why I continue to say, colleagues and colleagues, that we should accept at least this minimum, as set out in the three amendments to Article 160. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u271	Article 160 A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u272	Thank you for your word. Well, I don't think it's worth mentioning why such a dictatorship in the 160th article has been so far and why it took place in the revision of the Rules of Procedure last year and who took it all in this House to be such a dictatorship. In fact, such a dictatorship has discriminated against all those parliamentary groups that were not associated with formal or informal coalitions. It is said that they were not associated with the opposition in the coalition. Among those, in particular, it was discriminatory to the status of the parliamentary groups. And here, my friend Anderlich must be right. An amendment to the Rules of Procedure Commission shall be convened by the Group of Members to allow amendments to be made to the supplementary draft budget in the same position as in other legislative procedures. That's all it is. And I think it makes sense that this amendment is also supported in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! I'm sorry. I am revoking the vote because it has been announced that we are voting first on the amendment under order number 2. We vote on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 160. Let's vote! There are 60 Members and Members present. 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We now decide on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote! There are 63 Members and Members present. 59 votes against 1. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! 66 Members and Members are present. 61 votes against 2. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision on Article 161 and Amendment under 1, the Rules of Procedure Commission and under 2, the two parliamentary groups, the New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! 65 Members and Members are present. 58 votes against 3. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote! There are 64 Members and Members present. 20 votes to 43. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! 61 Members and Members are present. There were 53 votes against 4. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the article has been adopted We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 163 and the two amendments. Under 1 is the amendment of two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party, under 2 is the amendment of Tonet Anderlič. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u274	Thank you. I would like to explain the amendment, the first amendment to Article 163. When we adopt this Rules of Procedure, we will probably have to hire someone in this National Assembly who will look at the hour and have this task to pay attention to how much, on behalf of the Group of Members, one can discuss the supplementary draft budget, in the budget itself, how much it can discuss when presenting the views of the Group of Members on the law and so on, because in each of these matters you have written down your time. Once 3 minutes, once 20, once 5, once 2, once 10. So it will have to be someone who will make sure that this criterion in this Rules of Procedure is respected. See, the last sentence of paragraph 5 states that the Group of Members may make a position on the harmonisation amendment of the draft State budget in 5 minutes. I don't know why this is necessary, because, however, it can be a harmonisation amendment to the state budget proposal, I would say, such a material that needs to be discussed and given a broad view. However, you are trying, through this proposal for a Rules of Procedure, to limit the debate of the groups of Members. I don't know if that makes sense. Therefore, at least on behalf of the groups of Members, we should allow these eight groups to use time to give their views to the entire groups of Members, but not allow such an important act as the harmonisation amendment of the draft budget to be discussed by the leader of the Group of Members for 5 minutes. This, of course, is a step back in improving, I would say, some parliamentary work. We propose that this last sentence of paragraph 5 be deleted or amended, and, as in the supplementary draft budget, allow the panel discussion for 20 minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u276	In the case of the harmonisation amendments as a rule, and it should not at all be a debate, but on the proposal of the secretariat we should prepare a harmonisation amendment and remove what is inconsistent and prepare the government clearly to prepare it, but the secretariat should point out that the matter is not coordinated, or that the government itself can be established and prepared - and, as I said, it would normally be reasonable not to prolong the debate which was already twice or three times in the working body in the assembly and again in the working body in the assembly, but also in the harmonisation of the amendment. [[...]] That's not the point. The purpose of the harmonisation amendments is to eliminate non-compliance and, of course, to make a statement by the Group of Members in five minutes about whether it will support it, will it not support it, or why it thinks that this harmonisation amendment is not appropriate. However, this is not the stage in which the debate would take place.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Since no one else wants Mr. Peterle, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u278	Thank you for your word. This new eighth paragraph really worries me. Parliament will now be involved in the obvious affairs of the executive power, without it being written that one of these two members of the opposition must be -- this is all in the family again, with one little more work. The Government is obliged to make a clean slate, as it should, in accordance with the decisions of the National Assembly, there is no need to interfere with the competences or the common business. I object to that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u280	I suggest that the secretariat may help with this, but we did so after the meeting of the business commission on the proposal of the secretariat, because so far this has been done from case to case, 'ad hoc'. Some groups have done so, and it has always been so, even for 2002, 2003 and 2001. I don't know if any of the opposition was there or not, I don't mind, but in fact, it's just written here what's going on and what's needed to work. But this is what the secretariat suggested. It's not my whim or any special wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u282	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In fact, at the initiative of the secretariat, there has been a practice of preparing the original budget according to a specific procedure. Otherwise, the secretariat shall be empowered to act as the originals of the draft laws. However, we have assessed and also faced problems that, of course, the secretariat has neither the tools nor the necessary, I will say, the skills to verify the budget as a number document. And because of this, a group of Members, who took care of this, was formed, first in support of us, but then transferred it to, say, the framework of the competence of the mother's working body, with us working together, in particular because of relations with the Official Journal and the Secretary-General, who is responsible for the publication of the acts adopted by the National Assembly. That is why we have assessed and also suggested that it is appropriate that the existing practice be written down so far, and we do not have any, one would say, preferences, depending on how this group is to be composed. It is essential that the writing prepared by the government examine the national assembly that it has accepted and then send it out for publication. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Mr. Peterle, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u284	I see of course a great deal of difference in whether to examine or prepare. The amendment is meant to prepare this group. I think the government is preparing it, but I want it examined here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 163. We're voting. 66 Members and Members are present. 17 votes against 46. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We also decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present. The vote was 47 to 12. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 46 votes to 13. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 164 and the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Commission to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. Excuse me, Mr. Contic, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u286	Thank you, Madam Vice President. An amendment to the Rules of Procedure Commission has been tabled under Rule 164. I suggest you correct the text. In the first paragraph, in the second and not the first sentence, the word "accepted" is replaced by the word "proposed". Article 164 would thus read: "The law on the implementation of the budget must be in line with the state budget adopted. If the proposed law is not in line with the adopted state budget, the government must propose a harmonisation amendment to the draft law on the implementation of the budget. If the harmonisation amendment is not adopted, the state budget shall also be deemed not to have been adopted." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, we are moving on to a decision. The president of the Rules of Procedure Commission has completed the amendment, amended the amendment. We decide on the amendment. There are 67 Members present. 56 votes against 1. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 63 Members and Members present. It's 51 votes against 4. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 165 and the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Commission to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision on the amendment. Let's vote! 62 Members and Members are present. He voted 49 against 1. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 58 Members and Members present. There were 47 votes against 4. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 166 and the two amendments. Under 1 is the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Commission and under 2 amendments of two parliamentary groups, New Slovenia and the Social Democratic Party. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. Let's vote! 65 Members and Members are present. It's 52 votes against 3. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under 2. Let's vote! There are 63 Members and Members present. The vote was 16 to 44. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 44.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u288	My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u289	I'm going to vote against this article because I don't think it is. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u290	Comrade Peterle, we voted on this. You probably signed up in the middle of a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u291	I signed up before the switch. In view of the fact that we are allowing the possibility of proposing a budget here with the Rules of Procedure, it is really none of our business. It's in another marriage. This is not a matter of rules of procedure that says the government can propose a rebalancing. The government's proposing it if she thinks so. It's not up to us to decide. I'm up for it, but it's not an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u292	Thank you very much. A vote was taken at that time and the proposal was adopted. Now we're at 167. We have an amendment. You have it on the bench, two parliamentary groups, the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia. Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u293	Thank you for your word. So, when accepting or in general, when handling the final account in Slovenia, we have a situation where we accept the final account three or four years ago. Of course, this has not received any attention at that time, which is a major mistake. This is a waste of the state budget, which is so much and so much over 1000 billion, we are now talking about this. And that is why we wanted to make a commitment that the National Assembly would be discussing in some real, meaningful time the funds spent for the past year. We have now corrected this amendment and have aligned it with the law on public finances. Indeed, our first proposal was not in line with this law and we have now, of course, made a correction, so that we also have some support in this law on public finances. That's why I don't think there's any problem that we can't accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u294	Anybody else want a word, or are we gonna decide on Article 167? The amendment was also given a correction that we are taking note of. We decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 167. 58 in attendance, 16 in, 40 in. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 40.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We vote on the text of Article 167 in its entirety. Procedurally earlier? I'm calling off the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u295	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I know it's hard because there are so many amendments, but I've also checked with my colleagues -- we don't understand what you're saying. So I ask you to speak more clearly into the microphone so that we know what amendment we're in.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u296	Thank you so much for the heads-up. We're at 167. The amendment has been rejected and we are now deciding on the full text of the article. I can talk even louder. I just think it's rude for those who listen to me. Article 167 as a whole. The amended amendment was rejected. We are voting on the whole article. Please. Just a minute!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u297	The device's not working.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u298	Comrade Anderlich, did you want a word? Let me get this straight if anything's wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u299	In this case, I am joining Mr Visiak and in another. Well, I thought this amendment should be accepted, but because I thought the amendment was an amendment - I don't know exactly what we voted on. If we voted on the amendment to Article 167 of the SDS and New Slovenia parliamentary groups, then I am mistaken and would ask that we repeat the vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u300	Look, it's right. Well, it's time to clear up the situation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u301	But if you think we're over it, we're over it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u302	I'm the one who warned. Please, I have warned that the parliamentary group in the document you received on the bench has been signed by two parliamentary groups, has corrected its amendment, tabled under Article 167, and we have voted on it. If anyone thinks that there was no clear vote, we will repeat it if no one objects. We will vote once again, colleagues and colleagues, that there will be no misunderstandings about the amendment to Article 167, which has been corrected. Is he okay? Now there's no doubt about what we're voting on? Okay. Then we will first vote on the amendment to Article 167, which is corrected. We're voting. 62 present, 61 for, none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] Now we can vote on the whole article. We're voting. Present 61, 59 for, 1 for. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of the Article has been adopted. Look, I'm trying to talk with normal voice strength. I can speak louder, but it will only seem rude to those who do not talk and listen to me. I don't think that's right. You do not have an amendment tabled under Article 168 in your review, but you do have it on the bench. This is an amendment of two parliamentary groups, the Social Democratic Slovenia and New Slovenia. Social Democratic Parties and New Slovenia. Anybody want a word? Please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u303	Thank you very much. The amendment aims to give a slightly more thorough consideration and, of course, also to the final bill for the previous year in the National Assembly. In this amendment, it is proposed that the final accounts of the State budget be adopted in accordance with the way in which the European Community is established and prescribed in most Member States of the European Community and expected of candidate countries. The treatment of this closing account must take place in two stages and the amendment also prescribes how and how. Look at the legislation, both on public finances and on the law on the implementation of the budget, we grant and give the government powers and, of course, also to individual ministers for redistribution and, of course, some other powers, for borrowing and so on. Let's just remember that flexible budget stabiliser, or what it's called. Furthermore, this national assembly must have a clear picture of the closure of the accounts for the previous years before the adoption of the final adoption of the State budget. Of course, we have not paid serious attention to this so far, and it has been the adoption of a final bill of some kind of formality. With this amendment, we want this to be a serious and responsible action and, of course, to be presented by the most responsible people of the government. And of course, even the most responsible people of the audit, this is the President of the Court of Auditors. It is only that we have a clear, transparent picture of public finances in this country, that we have a clear basis for public finance planning, including for the future. And I think that the proposed reception of the final account offers this basis, offers and provides this sharp picture of the resources spent back and, of course, the proper treatment of that. The objective of the amendment is only to make public finances more responsible and transparent, of course, on a clear basis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u304	Anyone else want a word? My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u305	I believe that it is too much to deal with the closing account twice at the meeting of the National Assembly. Anything, a preliminary hearing could, and it would be appropriate to have it done by the mother's working body and then by the national assembly, if you have already submitted a report by the President of the Court of Auditors and so on, that this is in a single act despite all that is sufficient. However, this part, which talks about the preliminary treatment before the budget changes for the following year, is adopted or amended, depending on what year we are considering so that it can all be complicated and, in this regard, is practically given weight as the adoption of the whole budget. We also have two stages there, and I believe that the mother's working body is sufficient to be dealt with in advance. That the assembly will do it in a single session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u306	Anyone else? A colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u307	I would add here, yes, of course, it would probably be a lot easier. However, accountability to public finances requires some attention and also certain procedures. When we proposed this amendment, we have, of course, also examined some examples of arrangements in the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, France, Spain, Portugal, Belgium and in these countries know similar two-phase arrangements. Of course, they did not enforce or accept them in order to complicate their own lives and jobs, of course, but accepted them because this is important, responsible and necessary for planning public finances. Therefore, I just think that this amendment in this context would be worth accepting and, of course, paying due attention to this, the adoption of the final account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u308	Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] In order to avoid misunderstandings, we decide on the amendment you have on the bench without being in the review of the amendments. This is an amendment to Article 168. We decide on him. Please. We decide on the amendment to Article 168. 63 in attendance, 17 in, 45 in. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 45.]] I note that the proposal did not receive the necessary support. Let's vote on the whole article! The text has been adopted. 47 of us voted in favour, 13 against 58. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 170. We have a proposal from the New Slovenia Group and the Social Democratic Party. Please, Comrade Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u309	On behalf of the motioners, we withdraw this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u310	Fall back. So there's no debate. There's no discussion at Barovic's because he's withdrawn. There's no debate. He's been removed. Let's go to paragraph 171. Who wants to discuss the proposal of the Rules of Procedure Commission? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 171! The amendment was accepted. 51 for, 2 for 62. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us vote on the full text of the article! 56 present, 43 in, 3 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 175. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing it and we're moving on to a decision. Let's vote! Excuse me? Excuse me! I'm calling off the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u311	I would like to draw attention to this amendment of two parliamentary groups, the Social Democratic Parties and New Slovenia. In Article 175, we propose that the majority of the votes of the members present of the Constitutional Commission be replaced by a majority of the votes of all members. So it is, of course, that if the Constitutional Commission fails to comply with this requirement that most of them decide on a matter, then such a proposal probably does not have a guarantee of adequate support in the National Assembly itself. Otherwise, I would ask the proposer why they proposed that the Constitutional Commission decide on proposals based on a two-thirds majority vote of the members present but not all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u312	Does the proposer want to answer the question? My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u313	Because we simply wanted to somehow build up decision-making and increase the complexity of the previous phase, to check sometimes. And even now, in procedural matters, the Constitutional Commission also votes by a simple majority of Members, and in decisions of a substantive nature by a two-thirds majority of those present. For if nothing else, it is always a problem to provide this two-thirds quorum so large that it is decided at each session of the Commission. However, this is a sufficient journey for the two-thirds majority of all to be assured of such a change when the National Assembly decides to do so. However, at the absolute stage of the preparation of the act for the National Assembly, this is only a preparatory act and everything, i.e. for the initiation of the procedure and then for individual amendments, is decided by the National Assembly. That's what counts. No decision of the Constitutional Commission is final; it is not one that has the weight of reception or rejection, but only the preparation of material for the National Assembly. And that is why a special procedure is prescribed for the constitutional audit procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u314	Anyone else? Comrade Companion, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u315	Thank you very much. I won't be long. Article 175 of the Rules of Procedure fully transposes the provisions of the Constitution. The Constitution speaks of this majority and we must change it. But I would also like to talk about the following article, which is related to this article. It's about most of them. If the Constitutional Commission adopts the decision referred to in the preceding Article, it shall hold a debate on the draft constitutional law. Then there is another paragraph which says: "The Constitutional Commission shall, after the discussion referred to in the preceding paragraph, adopt by a majority of the votes of all the members of the position on the draft constitutional law and prepare a report thereon for the meeting of the National Assembly." I'd have thought about it here. If we say, with a simple majority of votes, we're adopting positions for the draft constitutional law, it'll condemn the majority that will come to the spoils. Here I would consider supporting the amendment proposed for the next Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u316	Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u317	Thank you. So, now I've got an answer to my question that I've asked at a meeting of the business commission, why the validity of constitutional matters - I'm naming constitutional matters, so that I can say more quickly that I won't waste too many words - on constitutional matters, I think 14 days after or after publication, and for the rest in early autumn. And of course I didn't get an answer there, but now I understand. That is to say, we will now be able to accept substantially more easily, even if some members of Parliament are not, who are also members of the Constitutional Commission, here, a two-thirds majority will still be found for the proposal to open the procedure for amendment. This is said to be a little easier to come by, or there may have been some other changes, which may have come a little bit more biobiologically because we know that there are sometimes a third or more members missing in Parliament, and I know that sometimes it has been difficult to provide a two-thirds majority of all present, but it is a little easier. That's what they say. That's the answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u318	My friend Anderlich, then my colleague Potch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u319	Not applicable. This content is governed by this Rules of Procedure and has not been provided for in the present Rules of Procedure. And this is one of the fundamental points that we have been listening to for some time now that we should settle this with an act, i.e. with the highest act applicable to the procedure in the National Assembly, it is with the Rules of Procedure. That is why this is regulated, not for any other purpose. However, in order to prepare for a new process, it is a fact concerning other decisions and it is an ideal time that, if the National Assembly closes the spring session on 15 July, all these preparations can be completed for the first autumn session, that is, September. However, I am confident that the Constitutional Commission will start a procedure at that time, which it will not be able to or would be pointless not to take it through a procedure which will be envisaged and which we can foresee and can arrange to the end until the debate is concluded and the final decision is taken at the meeting of the National Assembly. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u320	My friend Potts, my friend Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u321	Thank you very much. This part of the Rules of Procedure is explained and explained on the Business Commission, only if anyone wants to believe will he believe, or he will continue to say what is not true. But the second question, if I have understood Mr Petan correctly, was when he raised the question of how to decide when to take a decision to initiate the procedure. This is simply, Mr Petan, constitutionally determined by 2/3 of the majority present and there is no desire in this Rules of Procedure, however to decide when someone is present or not. This one's a little too heavy. Please don't discuss it this way. No, no. I mean, when it comes to debate, there's also a need to know the constitution. If not, do not claim something which is distinctly inconsistent with the facts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u322	Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u323	Thank you. Well, if that's the case, then I don't know why there has to be a difference. When a difference is made, the question is automatically asked why. Then one thinks of a lot of things. I just thought about it. Now, please, I can accept your argument or not. But the rest of what I also wanted to say earlier than some kind of replica of Mr. Anderlich. So if this constitutional matter has not been properly regulated so far, let's say, as we would like, ideally. This is now the real thing until 2002 if two more months were left like this. It's irrelevant. In addition, the Constitution, the change of constitution for me is such that for two months, I think the difference is 40 days, is no problem, no obstacle. Unless someone thinks that the Constitution is something like, I don't know, a simple change in a law or maybe the constitution is, like, the rules of a local community. If so, then I understand why a 40-day difference in the entry into force of this Rules of Procedure is necessary. Otherwise, I just don't know how to explain myself. That's my explanation. I can be wrong. There could be others. But that's the way it is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u324	Comrade Rockhead, first. Well, then, buddy Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u325	Thank you for your word. Yes, look, I think it would actually be useful to listen in this case to the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia. In any event, if someone would like to bypass 2/3 of the majority, the proposal will come to Parliament in this way. And it will take 2/3 of the majority of all Members and Members of Parliament. Therefore, it would actually make sense to follow the 2/3 consensus throughout the whole part. Because there's going to be more trouble, and there's going to be benefits if we just define 2/3 of the majority in one part, but not in the other. It would therefore actually be useful to support the amendment of the groups of Members. No, that's 176.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u326	My friend Run. 175.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u327	Oh, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u328	My friend Run.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u329	I really don't know if we're listening. I firmly believe that this provision has been transferred to the work of the Constitutional Commission from the decision-making process in the National Assembly. And it is guaranteed the same quorum and the same majority, and it seems to me to be correct. As for previous enforcement or not, Mr Petan. I would also personally like the Rules of Procedure to be applied earlier than the National Assembly, if that were true. But thank God we have found together that it requires such preparation in the services, in the working bodies, in the parliamentary groups, in the national assembly, to wait for us to use it in the autumn when we return from vacation. This is not the case with the amendment of the Constitution. Because the procedure, for the first time, is not that complicated, it has not been so far and it would be wise to implement it as soon as possible, or we will have some stages. Because the beginning of work on constitutional changes is here. The Constitutional Commission has been set up and we are already discussing some proposals through public presentations. Next week we will start a debate on this international issue. Why should we conscientiously delay this if we agree with the content? I really don't understand. However, if we were to assume that the content is inadequately arranged, but that I do not know how to think, it is another matter. And another one. The Constitutional Commission, on a proposal from the section, explicitly put forward a proposal to draw up the rules for the decision of the national assembly on the procedure for amending the Constitution as soon as possible. This, at least in my opinion, was attended by representatives of all parliamentary groups, members of the Constitutional Commission. There was no objection. Reverse! A common conclusion that it would be good for the Constitutional Commission to have as soon as possible the rules under which we will work.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u330	Can I close the debate? Yes, you can. We're at 175. This is at the end of the 22nd page of our review of the amendments and in the only amendment tabled by the Socialist Party and New Slovenia, we decide on the amendment under order number 1 to 175. Excuse me? Was it a retreat? We're making a decision. Against 46. 15 for 62. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 46.]] We decide on the full text of Article 175. The text has been adopted. 44 votes for, 13 against 58. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 13.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are going to the 23rd page of our review, Article 176, to which an amendment is tabled. Anybody want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u331	Thank you very much. I think these are very important questions because we have a constitutional change procedure ahead of us and, as has already been said, will follow these rules, as we now set out. My opinion is that we will have a complication when we reach a decision in the Constitutional Commission to initiate a constitutional change procedure. It will be accepted by a two-thirds majority of those present on the Constitutional Commission. We will then draw up a position on the draft constitutional law to the Constitutional Commission for a meeting of the National Assembly. However, only a simple majority is required for these views. There will be a complication here and on the spoils the matter may fall - the content of the positions will not be supported. That's one dilemma. The other one's next. If I am reading correctly, it is not clear from the Rules of Procedure when the National Assembly decides to initiate a procedure to amend the Constitution as required by the majority. Do not say that, but say that - perhaps it would be good to write - only that the National Assembly adopts the views set out in the preceding paragraph, and these are once again views on how to prepare a constitutional law with a simple majority, that is, with the majority of all Members. Here I would suggest that, however, it should be written if the constitutional dictatorship is set out in Article 175, in order to also write here what majority is necessary for the decision when the procedure for amending the Constitution begins because it does not contain this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u332	My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u333	I think that we could follow the same logic, even though this proposal has its own logic, because this is a point of view at this stage, it is not yet a matter of change, as is Article 175 of the opening of the procedure. So that logic is. I propose that the Group of Members amend the amendment so that the two-thirds majority of the Members present, as in Article 175, but not the two-thirds majority of all Members, all members of the Constitutional Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u334	Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u335	I see for myself the solution to support this amendment and to amend it accordingly in the third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u336	Now I can do it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u337	Here we are two motions, two parliamentary groups, it takes time. Okay, please take a 20-minute break to prepare an amendment. [[...]] Is that better? Well, then, five minutes off for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u338	I'm taking five minutes off. We'll continue at 5:18.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u339	The amendment can be made orally, Comrade Visjak. Of course you must prepare an amendment, Comrade Visjak. Comrade Vizjak, the amendment must be prepared. You give it to the Bureau by mouth and then file it with the Bureau. Please, if you come to the hall, because I will determine the presence. Please come to the hall. I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. It's 17 and 19 minutes. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. I recognize the presence in the hall and demand peace. This one would be very welcome to gather. I'm gonna rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. There are 51 present and we can decide. Would you like to make an oral amendment now, Comrade Visjak? Please. I'm asking you to listen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u340	Thank you very much. Otherwise it is in preparation and will be distributed in short also in writing. Nevertheless, we propose to amend the third paragraph of Article 176, which reads as follows: "The Constitutional Commission shall, after the conclusion of the debate referred to in the preceding paragraph, adopt a position by 2/3 of the majority of the members present on the draft constitutional law and prepare a report thereon for the meeting of the National Assembly."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u341	The amendment was orally reasoned. Does anyone want to discuss it now? Is it clear which text we will decide on? Please. Then we decide on the amendment, which has now been tabled, which has been replaced. There is no objection to this by any of the Members. The amendment that has now been read by the Magi. The visionary is the amendment that we will decide on, not the amendment that is under order number one. There'll be no misunderstandings. We decide that. 61 present. 58 for, 1 for. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've accepted the amendment. We can vote on the full text of the article. Let us vote on the full text of the article! 60 present. 56 for, 2 for. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the text has been adopted. By 177th Article, the Rules of Procedure Commission had tabled an amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Let's vote on that. Let's vote on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Commission! The amendment was accepted. 49, 2 to 58. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Let us vote on the text as a whole. I'm asking for peace in the hall! Let's vote on the whole text! 51 present. 45 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the text is fully adopted. We decide on Article 178. We have an amendment. I don't see anyone who wants to discuss it. Let's vote for the amendment! Let's vote on the amendment! Article 178, amendment. 62 present. Nineteen, 40 against. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let's vote on Article 178 as a whole! 51 present. 43 for, 7 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. Look, Comrade Visjak. I hear your comment. I'll take her into account. I will only be longer at a time that I will set aside for Members and Members to decide whether they want to justify their vote or to give their position. Oh. K. Please. Okay. I'll take longer. We will now vote on Article 181. I'm having a debate about him. Who wants a word? [[Nobody]] . Then we'll vote. First about the amendment under order number 1 and then under order number 2. First, on the amendment tabled by the Rules of Procedure Commission. Let's vote! 57 present. 46 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still have the amendments of SDS and NSI. Let's vote! 60 present. 12 for, 45 for. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 45.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let us vote on Article 181 in full. 55 present. 44 for, 7 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're moving on to 187. I'm opening a debate. Nobody wants a word. Let us vote on the amendment under order number one. I'm asking for peace in the hall! We're in the middle of a vote. 63 present. 17 for, 41 for. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We vote on the text of Article 187 in its entirety. There's not enough peace in the hall to make a decision. One more time. We vote on the full text of the article. 67 present, 50 for, 10 versus. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the text of the Article has been adopted. By 208th Article, we have an amendment. I'm opening a debate. Nobody wants a word. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment under order number one. 69 present, 62 in, 3 in. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the full text of the article. 65 present, 60 for, one against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the text of the Article has been adopted. Article 288, and an amendment to the Rules of Procedure Commission. I'm opening a debate. Nobody wants a word. I'm closing the debate. We're voting. Please, did you sign up for the word? I'm calling off the vote. I give the floor to explain my voice, but I will also have to wait a little longer at this point. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u342	Is that already Article 288?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u343	Sure. Sorry, article 228, you did, didn't you?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u344	Ah, excuse me!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u345	Article 288. Comes in three pages. I accept your apology, Comrade Rokavec. We vote on the amendment to Article 228. 67 in attendance, 52 in, no in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the full text of the article. 61 present, 49 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the text of the Article has been adopted. We go to Article 244 and the amendment tabled. I'm opening a debate. 242, yes, in my first attempt, I said exactly - 242. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 242. Let's vote! 63 present. 17 for, 41 for. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. Let us vote on the text of Article 242 in its entirety. Let us vote on the text of Article 242 in its entirety! 65 present. 50 for, 12 for. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 12.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We move on to Article 244. Now, yes, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u346	Thank you for your word. In this article it is clear that the Rules of Procedure are prepared for the current state of the force relationship in Parliament. We therefore propose in this amendment that the word "four" be deleted. In this term, we have argued that there are four opposition parties. If the text were to read that it must be: 'compliance with the order of the issues reported, by asking first questions by members of the opposition and a member of the coalition'. This would tell everything, even for any other relationship, no matter how many opposition parties there are. This would be universal, and we believe that such a solution would be more universal. This solution, which is now, is based on the current situation in Parliament, because we believe that the Rules of Procedure are such an act that is supposed to apply for a longer period, but not only for one mandate period, then such a text as is now less appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u347	More mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u348	Thank you very much. I see that, from now on, if this standard is established, the Prime Minister will answer the first three questions of the opposition and one question of the position, if I understand that. I don't know, I'm surprised that way. It is true that some government presidents communicate more poorly with their Members or with their coalition colleagues, and that is why they probably have the only place here that this may seem rather unusual to me and I know that this is probably not the case. [[...]] This is said to be the fourth issue for one type of marketing prime minister. This is a basic purpose, as I see it, and in fact it would be against this, because the institution of the parliamentary question is something completely different than marketing for the prime minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u349	Anybody else want some? Is it explained? I'm closing the debate. We're in the 244th section of the amendment. We will vote on it. Let us vote on the amendment to Article 244. Please vote! Vote the amendment to Article 244! We're voting. 65 present. 39 for, 22 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 22.]] The amendment was not voted out. That is how we vote on the whole article. We are voting on the whole article. Presence 60. For 44, versus 14. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're going to the back of the exam. We are therefore on page 25 and Article 245. There's an amendment to the Rules of Procedure Commission. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We decide on the amendment to Article 245 of the Rules of Procedure Commission. We're in the middle of a vote. Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. The amendment was accepted. It was 51.5 versus 62. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now voting on Article 245 as a whole. We vote on Article 245 as a whole. Of the 52 present, 42 were voted against, and 6 were opposed. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] The article has been voted on. We're at Article 274. I'm opening a debate. No one wants the word, so I will put to the vote the amendment tabled by the Rules of Procedure Commission at Article 274. Please. The amendment was accepted. The vote was 49, 2 against 61. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] We vote on Article 274 as a whole. 56 present. Forty-five, three against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against three.]] I understand he's been accepted. Let's go to Article 284. The Rules of Procedure Commission has an amendment. I'm opening a debate on him. Nobody wants a word, so I'm closing the debate. We are going to vote on the amendment to Article 284. 63 present. 54 for, 2 for. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I understand he's been accepted. Now we're talking about Article 284 as a whole. We're voting. We vote on Article 284 as a whole. Peace in the hall. 56 present. Forty-nine, one against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I'm guessing we've accepted the article. We're at 287. The Rules of Procedure Commission has tabled an amendment. I'm opening a debate. You want a word? Look, be collegiate with everyone. I too find it difficult to monitor whether someone just talks to someone and raises his hands or wants to sign up for the word. You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u350	[[...]] [[He started talking without a microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u351	Microphone!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u352	that Article has only two paragraphs. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u353	Just a minute! The chairman of the commission. Did you make a mistake? No, wait! It cannot insist that it has not erred if it claims that Article only has two paragraphs if it has three. Do you agree that you've made a mistake? Attention, please. Just a minute! Perhaps there is a misunderstanding, we have different texts of the rules of procedure proposals ahead of us. Please, please, please, please, please, Please, Comrade Jelinčič, do not raise your voice without need. Well, it's a good thing we cleared up. He's right, our colleague, that's right. Comrade Gasparini, thank you for that precision. So he's got two paragraphs, and that's going to be a third, right? The second paragraph is deleted - this will be a proposal. Is that right? The second paragraph is deleted. That's right. This is a technical error in the preparation of the report. Please, let's calm down. The mistake has been made, we're fixing it. The text of the Rules of Procedure Commission shall read: "The second paragraph shall be deleted." Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. 63 present, 47 for, 7 versus. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. We vote on the full text of the article. 56 present, 43 in, 4 in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're on the back of the exam. Now we are, Comrade Rokavec, at Article 288. You want a word? [[Yes, you do.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u354	Thank you for your word. I would briefly, honourable Members, explain this amendment or amendment to the amendment. Much has been said during today's day about what this Rules of Procedure bring and what are essential changes and that the way of functioning of this National Assembly will also be fully changed. If we want work to actually be able to function in Parliament and that it will also be of quality, then the whole way of organising work will also need to be changed. On this basis, I estimate that the actual time frame for the implementation of this Rules of Procedure could be 1.1.2003. I fear that any urgency will only bring the opposite, so that the quality of marriage solutions adopted will be worse than at this time. On the other hand, we also give the necessary time to everyone concerned by this Rules of Procedure, both to the Government, both to the Assembly of State and to the Council of State, and to all others, to engage in the work of the National Assembly. That is why I think it would make sense to think and I propose that you support this amendment to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Commission.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u355	Good. Article 288. Three amendments, four has been withdrawn. My friend Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u356	Just because of what Mr Rokavec was talking about, it is right and necessary that we start to implement it with the autumn session of the National Assembly, because there will be a month and a half at that time, because the early days of September will only be the preparation of the meeting, so it will be time for all things to change and to move on to a new process. This will be easier than during the new year, when things were still a little bit easier at the end of December and the beginning of the first days in January. Thus, the arguments are mainly on the side of some adjustment and preparation during the break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u357	My friend Jelinczych. Then it's Comrade Petty Officer. We're just waiting, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u358	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, I advocate our amendment, which says that the Rules of Procedure shall enter into force on the day of the entry into force of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that, Mr Anderlič, in his explanation for adopting the law on a rapid basis, stated that a substantial change in the rules of procedure in the adaptation of the Slovenian legal order to the legal order of the European Union. The European Commission considers that the legislative procedures in the Slovenian Parliament are too slow. And yet these European Commissions of Slovenia are imposing increasingly problematic demands, hitting on the Slovenian economy, asking us to change a lot of things, now the Rules of Procedure, we have closed the Duty free, we have accepted the Spanish compromise and I do not know what else. And yet we have no guarantee that Europe will please us to accept each other. Therefore, I think it makes sense that Slovenia's legal order, okay, should be prepared, but let it change when we join the European Union. Until then, I think that we can respect the Slovenian Constitution, Slovenian laws and regulations that have enabled us to maintain our independence, independence and sovereignty for 10 years, which is true that each day is more frail and falling. The adoption of this Rules of Procedure would also be a step backwards in Slovenia's independence and independence. I therefore find it reasonable to support the amendment to Article 288 tabled by the Slovenian national party. I'd say once again, I don't think the rush is going to lead anywhere. We can do things peacefully, slowly, soberly and at a time when the Slovenians decide we are ready to make a change, not subject to the dictatorship of the European Union and through it the dictatorship of the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Drnovska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u359	Please, you have the floor, Dr. Gasparini.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u360	Thank you. I think Mr Jelinčič is a bit of a joke, so I'll skip, but I'll go back to the proposal, for the first, for the third. Well, if you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u361	No, please, Comrade Gasparini, we're at the end of the decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u362	I'm just gonna say one thing. We don't have a calendar year meeting, but we have the fall, spring part. I don't think I know why you didn't say 31.1. That's why I think what's written here is better than your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u363	Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u364	In this darkness, I would like to say the following. Most likely, the majority will not support the proposal of a fellow Member, Rokavac, who is in fact a good proposal. Most will most likely win, as proposed by the Rules of Procedure Commission. Tonight I feel that we are approaching such an atmosphere that we can take a step further in the procedure for adopting the Rules of Procedure. But in this place, I'd like to say that it's likely to be the next time. The Rules of Procedure shall enter into force on 15 July. We will begin to prepare for the September meeting following the new Rules of Procedure and, despite all the good will and the profession that has been entered into the Rules of Procedure, we will find some other shortcomings in it and we will have another point by the end of the year, which will be referred to as amendments and additions to this new Rules of Procedure, and perhaps we will start working with all our energy after it indeed from 1.1.2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u365	Good. We'll do it in a row. Just different than the amendments in your review, so there won't be any misunderstandings. May I have your attention, please? We will vote first on the amendment under order number 3, then on the amendment under order number 1 and finally on the amendment under order number 2. Four has been removed. What kind of misunderstanding? [[No, no, ……]] If adopted by the 3rd, i.e. by 1st vote, the other two are irrelevant. Let us therefore vote on the proposal of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group for an amendment to Rule 288 of the Rules of Procedure. There's 68 in attendance. For 18, 47 against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 47.]] I'm guessing he wasn't accepted. We are voting on an amendment to the Rules of Procedure amendment to Article 288. This is an amendment under order number one in your review. Let's vote! Franci Rokavec, of course. I'm calling off the vote. Just a minute. Look, there's a riot in the hall. Just like you're looking for, so everything has to run fine here. Please don't disturb the work. We have previously voted on the amendment under order number 3 and we have rejected it. We are now at the amendment under order number one, second in turn, this is the amendment to the amendment of the Rules of Procedure Commission tabled by Franci Rokavec. Let's vote! 68 present. 25 for, 39 for. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get the required majority. We are now voting on the amendment under number 2 of the Rules of Procedure Commission. Let's vote! 67 present. 46 for, 18 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that this proposal has received the necessary support. We are now voting on Article 288 as a whole. Let's vote! 66 present. 46 for, 17 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Then we will vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote! Let us vote on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. 66 present. 48 for, 17 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the Rules of Procedure. There's no desire to discuss it. Excuse me? There is no desire to discuss, so we are moving on to a decision on the title of the Rules of Procedure. I put this proposal to the vote. There's 70, 50 for, versus 18. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against 18.]] I note that the title of the Rules of Procedure has been fully adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the draft Rules of Procedure. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u366	Thank you very much. Dear President, look, we've combed 27 pages of the amendments today. I think that the rules of procedure are such an important act that it would be necessary to give us time before the third reading to further examine what has been adopted and how the text may be improved. Therefore, I would ask you to continue the third hearing at the following meeting or at the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u367	Do we consider this a procedural proposal that I will put to the vote? Please, colleague Anderlich, you're the proposer. Please, what is your position?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u368	Otherwise, I think that one of the amendments that would regulate the content will have to be in another reading or harmonisation, not anymore, because we have carefully monitored what has been adopted and what has not been adopted; I am talking about consistency and I am talking about what has been expected of the proponents. Several other amendments have also been adopted to improve content. From this point of view, we don't need time. Although I do have a proposal which is related to tomorrow, that nevertheless [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] - not the fifth reading - but to prepare the amendments by tomorrow and someone else and to continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. and finish the third hearing. [[...]] I have to say that I voted for myself the last time, as I thought before. In these two days, however, there has been quite a public criticism at the expense of our decision not to work on Friday, i.e. Friday, 29th, which is working day after all our calendars. If these two things could be brought together to do this third treatment and we are doing it tomorrow - otherwise, of course, I believe that there are no conditions today to finish this, because obviously there is no will. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u369	Order! Order! Look at Mir! [[...]] I'm in charge of the session, and I'm gonna ask for your attention in the hall. Are you finished, Comrade Anderlich?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u370	My procedural proposal has complemented the previous procedural proposal to put an end to this. For us it would be 10 minutes for the amendments, for the others probably more because they need to study.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u371	First of all, there will be no misunderstandings if Mir, come on, please! [[...]] I'm in charge of the session and I'd like to take it all the way. My friend Visjak didn't announce that they're going to table amendments, they just want to study. Have you also announced the submission of amendments for third reading? Because then I have to give you time anyway. Please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u372	Look, I have to repeat what I said again. It's 27 pages. A lot of amendments have been accepted. I've been here the whole time. I've been following this, but I can't answer your question right now whether we're going to table an amendment or not. However, I believe that it is necessary to complete this important work, which will greatly shape our future action in this national assembly, only to take some time to get through the abundance of everything. The motioner has announced an amendment. I think this time for the amendment is necessary. However, I think I have made a procedural proposal and therefore I ask you to put it to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u373	Now, before I put a procedural motion to the vote, I will propose that in 5 minutes we gather the leaders of the parliamentary groups at 217. Please. At 217 for 5 minutes, the leader of the parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u374	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. I'm asking you to come to the hall. I'll let you know what we've agreed on. I think that we have worked very intensively for two weeks and that we must now wisely bring this conclusion of this session under the roof. Please come to the hall. With a little patience, we will also conclude this fairly regular 14th session, or at least we will interrupt it for today if we so decide. We have met to discuss how best to resolve the issue that we have faced today, the end of the work and the plan and programme, and the end of the envisaged work for the 14th session, in line with the conclusion of Tuesday. If colleague Vizjak and colleague Anderlič withdraw their procedural proposals, I will propose that we stop the meeting today and continue with this item on Tuesday at 2 p.m. and finish our work on Tuesday with the motorways and that is also the conclusion of the 14th session. The other points would have been transferred to the next session. This is a proposal, if, of course, colleague Vizjak and colleague Anderlič withdraw their procedural proposals, then it is my turn. Please. Comrade Vizjak, do you agree?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u375	Yeah, yeah. I agree.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u376	Comrade Anderlich, do you agree? You agree. Then I am putting my proposal to the vote that we stop and continue on Tuesday for today. Please, I put this proposal to the vote. There is no debate on the procedural proposal. We're voting. I'm breaking up first. We'll be able to determine the presence first. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Just for a moment, there will be no misunderstandings and misunderstandings. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. 61 present. The assembly is adjourned. My procedural proposal is now on. He was as coordinated as he was with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, so we are working on Tuesday ahead. We're voting. Please make a decision on my procedural proposal. 64 present. 46 for, 14 for. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. So we'll continue on Tuesday. She's Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u377	Thank you very much. I wanted to make my vote with a procedural proposal earlier so that certain points, or half of the points left since the 14th meeting, would continue at tomorrow's meeting, exactly 14 out of 33. The reason is enough. I assume you overestimated yourself the last time you voted not to work on Friday.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u378	Just a minute!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u379	Perhaps even in the sense of thinking that our work would turn out faster. [[...]] But it's not. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u380	Please, please, please, please, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u381	menu [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u382	Please! I haven't stopped the session yet. I think it's right to give our word. Then, of course, I will tell you what we decided once again at the recently concluded meeting. Please, colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u383	In addition to the argument that we have no reason to take the day off tomorrow, I have the following argument - that work at the 15th, 16th and all other meetings will burden us so much if we look at the convening of the next meeting, we have very difficult laws, by transferring 14 more or 13 more to the next meeting, there will be an overstretched situation in the National Assembly, for which we will also have to answer. [[...]] I therefore propose that we continue tomorrow with these items on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u384	Can I please have some peace?? Of course, look, the meeting's still going on, because I haven't finished. Please! Please, can I finish this session as I have to? At the meeting of the leaders of the groups of Members, such a compromise has been reached that resolves the issue previously raised. I propose that we discuss the items on the agenda that remain tomorrow at 11 a.m. at a meeting convened on behalf of another matter, the leadership of the National Assembly and the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Work plan, work plan didn't anticipate work on Friday. Nevertheless, after consulting the leaders of the parliamentary groups, without all clear consent, there was an opportunity for this proposal to be supported, I put this procedural proposal to the vote on Tuesday. He was rejected. I propose that, in this sense, we no longer vote on this proposal, which has not been rejected, and that tomorrow at 11 a.m. with the leaders of the Group of Members, we find out how we will proceed with the meeting. I think it's okay, Shirtz's colleague. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u385	Given that my proposal differs from what we have just voted on, and given that new circumstances have arisen, as I said before, that you may have overestimated yourself in thinking how much we can do, I would insist on voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u386	I will put this procedural proposal to the vote, but please, I must say this - wait, please, for a little peace in the hall, well, I haven't finished the session yet; if someone raises his hand, yes, you also want to get the word when you ask to get it! Please, just a moment. I will put this proposal to the vote. However, I would say that when voting on this, I think, it is necessary to take into account the proposal that we adopted earlier at the meeting, otherwise it is likely that such an agreement, which was previously voted, would not have been adopted. I will put this proposal to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u387	My procedural proposal is that we continue to deal with the remaining items of the agenda tomorrow, except for that point that we have previously decided on, the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-28-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u388	I will put this proposal to the vote. Let's vote! [[A voice from behind.]] Yes, you can. It is a procedural proposal. We have voted several times. [[...]] [[A voice from behind.]] We have voted several times. Peace in the hall! I'm gonna find out again! Order! I'm going to find out one more time about the presence in the hall! Order! Let's vote please! Ten minutes? You don't have to. Tuesday. We'll get back to work on Tuesday. At 2 p.m.
