ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u1	It's 2:00 in the morning. I invite colleagues and colleagues to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly. We're about to begin our 21st extraordinary session. Several colleagues and colleagues are excused, mostly in Brussels and will be back tomorrow. Before I tell you who's missing, I'll find out who's here. To be able to do this as soon as possible, I'm once again inviting everyone to come to the hall. Please. Please also place your cards in the voting devices so that I can have close control of the quorum. Can I ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to warn Members and Members that it is a few minutes after 2 p.m. and that they would like to start the meeting? Please. I would like to ask my fellow Members and esteemed colleagues to put their ballots in the voting apparatus. I will begin the 21st extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I convened the meeting on the basis of Article 51, paragraph 1, and Article 54, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that several colleagues and colleagues are absent and are unable to attend meetings, mainly due to working-body meetings in Brussels. These are colleagues: Janša, Brejc, Rupar, Sušnik, Petan, colleague of Potrata, Possonec and Krebs, colleagues of Diaci, Gračner, Battelli, Fabjan, Bozič, colleague of Zalokar Orazem, colleagues of Zamernik, mag. Vizjak, Barovic, Germić, Lavrinc, Celigoj, Peterle, from 4 p.m. on from colleague Brenčič and from 5 p.m. on from colleague Franci Rokavec. These are colleagues and colleagues who have announced their absence for justified reasons. I invite everyone else to come to the hall to be able to determine the presence and to start the last session in advance of parliamentary holidays. Please all colleagues from the lobby. I'll just wait a minute or two, then I'll determine the presence, and if the National Assembly is not adjourned, I'll order a 15-minute recess. [[...]] I don't think it would be good to witness this obligation. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the National Assembly Hall. Can I ask the secretary of two parliamentary groups, our colleagues from the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia, if you could warn colleagues and colleagues that the meeting is about to begin, to come to the hall. Please. Are all the cards in? We have to wait a few more moments. I ask colleagues and colleagues to come from the offices to the large debate room to postpone all other obligations and to now devote themselves to the work in the plenary. Please! Once again, I ask the secretaries of the parliamentary groups to help inform their colleagues if they are detained because of other obligations to start the meeting. Good. If we're all going to be involved in reporting presence, we're going to be 46 of us every minute. This could make it possible to start work. Please, everyone, put your cards in the voting device. I'll be there any minute. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" key. I'm picking up a presence in the hall! I'm picking up a presence in the hall! Colleagues and colleagues! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Next time, I'll find out who's in the hall! Next time, I'm picking up a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" key. Please press the “quorum” button, we are in the middle of determining presence in the hall. There are 48 colleagues and colleagues present. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. At the meeting, I welcome the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We will proceed to the establishment of the agenda of the 21st Extraordinary Session. You received the draft agenda by reference to 5 July this year. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 64 of the Rules of Procedure. First, we'll come up with a motion to withdraw. I didn't get any withdrawals. My colleague Peca suggests at this point that he withdraws - which point, colleague Peca?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u2	On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, we propose the withdrawal of the law supplementing the law on temporary shelter, which is submitted for consideration at the preliminary session following a reduced procedure. Slovenia and its new fiscal policy or public finance policy, led by the Minister for Finance, has created a sort of class movement in our country. On the one hand, those who do not actually have a livelihood are unemployed, and they also have a poor education, and this country does not allow them what they should be able to do as a social state, and on the other hand, of course, that class of rich people who are more or less politically connected and are in a minority. The trend I'm talking about will increase in terms of increasing social weaknesses, especially when we look at the structural budget cut, only the evolution of the budget, how it changed from 93 to last year 2001, when we see that the three segments of the budget in 93, wages, interest and social transfers, reached a total of slightly more than 30% in total last year, and all of these three transfers together already nearly 70%. We see that this country is not actually getting into something new that would improve it, but we see that we are only getting worse. In spite of all this, the government of the Republic of Slovenia or the government offering admission is found, following a reduced procedure, a new law on temporary shelter, which should normally have only one basic norm or one basic tendency, is to reclassify the status of temporary shelter as a permanent residence status for 2,307 people. Of course, we stress that, in our opinion, the Slovenian National Party, to which we hope you will listen to the members of the National Assembly, grants them a privileged stay or privileged position. As you may, honourable Members and Members, have read in your explanation of the law on temporary shelter, and the ratings that this National Assembly is supposed to legitimize on the proposal of the Government to these people are in an area that the Slovenian citizen cannot even dream of. This country, through fiscal policy, will provide them with social security, employment, work, health care, school fees in secondary schools, universities and universities, and, of course, with free accommodation and care. Perhaps all of this would have seemed fine to anyone, perhaps even to government representatives who might have traveled abroad and talked about how good our country is and all of this offers 2,000 and a few others, whose status should have expired long ago and should have returned to their homeland. But if we look at our country, where we see that the unemployment rate is still exceptional and is tried by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with so-called [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] standards to hide, and we see that in this country we do not do or do all those who type deafly on keys, as proposed by the government, other than simply turn our citizens into second-class citizens. [[...]] With the bill, as it is now at the table, we will once again fail Slovenia and Slovenia, and this is not the purpose of the national assembly. This is not the purpose of democracy, this is not the purpose of concern for all those who have chosen us. I am convinced that it is more reasonable than a financial gift for all the conditions that I have listed, these foreigners, by staying temporarily, that these possible funds that you intend to introduce into the new budget are intended for all those places where unemployment is so high. For those tuitions to those Slovenian children who are unable to pay, and not to do so to foreigners. In the Slovenian National Party, we propose to withdraw the law from the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u3	The Slovenian National Party's emissary group therefore proposes the withdrawal of the bill. The chairman of the committee, Comrade Lavrinco. Is there anyone else who would like to say the position of the parent working body, the internal policy committee? [[No, no, ……]] Does the government have a position on this issue? [[No, no, ……]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? I guess not. Okay. Then we will move on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw that item from the agenda. We're voting. 57 present, 15 for, 41 versus. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 41.]] I find that the motion for withdrawal has not been put to the vote. I'm asking, does anyone else want to make a motion to withdraw any of those points? Please, mate Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u4	I propose that point 12, the proposal of the Water Act, the third reading, be postponed. Why? Because we are working on this point for the second time in the Infrastructure Committee today, we have not reached one third of the amendments. So the material is more than just a second reading. I think the material is also poor, untransparently prepared. Whatever we do now, it's going to be all right, and if this law is being prepared since 1997, and we have to take a third treatment on the nose now, I don't think that's good, because if the marriage is bad, it's better that it's not. I therefore propose that you move on to the next meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u5	We have heard the proposal to withdraw this bill from the hearing. Does the President or the rapporteur of the competent working body want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Would you like a representative of the government? Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u6	Thank you very much. Please, I'm really asking you to keep this marriage on the agenda. I think we're just before the hearing ends today. If the Committee had not become inconclusive because several committees had been convened at the same time, this consideration would have been completed. I think we have only five amendments to discuss and the continuation of the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee has already been called for today after the meeting of the National Assembly. So I'm sure we'll be through now. Why does that matter? It's about two things. One is, of course, because it is one of the important laws that the European Union reminds us of, and even more so for internal reasons - until we have this law, we cannot activate the resources of the water fund. And right now, the state of investment in the water economy is zero this year. And if this marriage is gone, it'll be nothing by the end of the year. And that really is a big problem. So please, if this can remain on the agenda, and I am sure that the matter will be ready, I hope, by tomorrow's meeting of the assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u7	The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They want to.]] First of all, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members, please, Comrade Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! What the proposer has proposed is certainly true. He also holds what he proposed or said by the Minister, a representative of the government. Now, how to decide is of course very difficult. One thing and the other is important. If we force the adoption of this law, I do not think that the law will be adopted with the best decisions or solutions will be the best. I firmly believe that if we are to adopt this law, there will certainly be a proposal for amendments in the near future, that is a fact and we must be prepared to do so. Our constituency is at stake here and everyone will decide on the basis of their own judgment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Please, colleague Mamić, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u10	I reiterate that the law or amendments are not ready. And, as Mr. Secretary, five amendments says, that's not true at all. In my opinion, there were twenty, if not thirty, I didn't count them, but if there were five, I'd be quiet. I don't think it's good to be quick to accept something that's so important. I don't know, maybe the president of the Infrastructure Committee could also say his opinion. I don't want to provoke him, but someone else can. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u11	Anyone else wants to do it on behalf of the Members [[Other options are over]] ? Does the proposer want to make further arguments, given the debate he had had, or do I understand that this was your final word at the same time? Okay. Then we can move on to a decision on the proposal to withdraw the draft water law - this is the proposed item 12 - from the agenda. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal to withdraw the draft water law, item 12, from the agenda. The proposal did not receive support. Out of 57, 13 and 43 voted against him. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 43.]] We are moving on to a proposal to expand the agenda. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on succession issues for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes that we extend the agenda by considering this. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat, Madam Secretary? [[No, no, ……]] I ask, do representatives of the parliamentary groups want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to include on the agenda a proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement on succession issues. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. The proposal was adopted. Of the 57 present, 41 and 5 were against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] The assembly will consider this bill as item 14th of the agenda. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Trade Act, following a reduced procedure. The Council proposes that we extend the agenda by considering and adopting this. You received a proposal from the Government by letter dated 8 July this year. Does the government want a word? Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u12	Your Honor! We propose that the agenda for today's extraordinary meeting be extended by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the trade law, for the reason that, as of 27.7., the 27th month shall expire on the basis of the decision of the Constitutional Court of 17th paragraph of this Act governing the operating time of retail trade. These amendments will re-arrange this area in accordance with the requirements of the Constitutional Court decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u13	Do qualified debaters want a word on the agenda? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda by proposing a law amending and supplementing the trade law. We're voting. 55 in attendance, 22 in, 25 in. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 25.]] The proposal to include a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Trade Act has not been adopted. Ambassador Bojan Kontič submitted a proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly for consideration by the assembly following a reduced procedure. The Council proposes that we extend the agenda for this meeting. You received a motion for an act today on the bench. Would you like a word, Comrade Kontic? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[Neither do I.]] The government. Representatives of the parliamentary groups. [[Nobody.]] Yes, please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u14	Thanks again for saying that. I'd like some listening from my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u15	I ask for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u16	Mr. Anderlich, I'd like to ask you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u17	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u18	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u19	Please, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u20	Thank you, Mr. Anderlich, for your understanding.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u21	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u22	In the Slovenian National Party, we oppose the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, although what Mr Kontič wrote in his explanation is true. To allow for a normal transformation process resulting from the new Rules of Procedure through this amendment. It is incomprehensible and unacceptable, however, to us the procedure proposed by Mr Kontič or as you proposed together in college, namely the meeting of the President of the National Assembly. Even more incomprehensible is the behaviour of the Legal Affairs Secretariat. The way you touch it is, and I'm going to use the same term as I used it on the business committee, because I think it's perfectly appropriate, is "hokus-pocus". It's a magic you're trying or you're going to be able to avoid procedure. You're changing the old rules, which we've already changed a few days before the new ones were put into effect. Thus, this State Assembly has not yet worked in this mandate or in previous mandates. And I hope that I have already expressed this wish on the business committee that we Members will have at least a written opinion of the secretariat as part of our decision-making. However, I am speaking mainly because I would like my words or views to go to the minutes of the Slovenian National Party. For the procedure, as we introduce it this time in the House of State, is incomprehensible and beyond the Rules of Procedure, whether it is existing, valid, or one which will enter into force on the 15th. All this in order to cover up the inability of the candidates who proposed the novel and, on the other hand, the urgency and incompetence of the secretariat. If they didn't notice what they were supposed to notice. We will therefore not support the proposal of the new Rules of Procedure in the Slovenian National Party to the draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u23	Does any of the other members of the group want a word? Please, my friend Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I would expect the drafter of the new Rules of Procedure to pay attention to this initiative and to, of course, monitor and also acknowledge that, in fact, what we have pointed out to some Members at the time of the adoption of this legislation or the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the new Rules of Procedure, the fact that a wide range of solutions are not fixed that problems will arise in the implementation, implementation of this Rules of Procedure, this has started to happen. Before this Rules of Procedure entered into force, problems began to arise. Please, Commissioner, how did you predict that they had occurred in such a short time before the new Rules of Procedure began, that such problems had arisen and that we now have to change the old rules on our noses so that we can start implementing the new rules in general. That's unacceptable. And so many big words have been made at the expense of the new Rules of Procedure, which we still doubt how it will be implemented in practice. I, myself or our Group of Members, will certainly not support this proposal. We are confident that we have until 1 September time and that we can normally implement this new rules of procedure and that there is no need for change. We will therefore simply not support this proposal to amend the old rules of procedure. We have a new one planned, and let's make it happen if we want to make it happen. But if not, say that you have made mistakes, that you have already made the initial mistakes, the key mistakes, and that we will, in the spirit of these expectations, as we are now on the agenda, be able to implement the new rules of procedure in the future. In short, one big mess. I hope you'll take that responsibility for yourself. Our parliamentary groups cannot support such incomplete proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u25	I'm asking for peace in the hall! He's got a word. I think he's a colleague of Anderlich's. Comrade Anderlich, you have the floor. You don't want a word. Anyone else? Please, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u26	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u27	You can finish your conversation there in front of him, please, so Comrade Sok can speak in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u28	You're talking very quietly, so don't bother me. Thank you very much. It is true, therefore, that we have adopted the rules of procedure as we have adopted them, and it has already been shown from the outset that there are certain provisions incorporated into the adopted rules of procedure that will cause problems in the implementation of the new Rules of Procedure. I have already asked this question on the Commission today to the Secretariat of the State Assembly, because I explain that if, in Article 285 of the new Rules of Procedure, it is stated that the National Assembly must, within 15 days of its entry into force and enter into force on 15 July, establish a mandate-holder committee, which will somehow replace the current Kviaz and the mandate committee, that even if the old Rules of Procedure are amended, it is said that we are now establishing this mandate-voluntary committee, which should then be established once again after the new Rules of Procedure. If that is not the case, then it means that we will not comply with Article 285 of the new Rules of Procedure at the outset. Even if the Commission remains exactly the same as we will now call it after the revision of the current Rules of Procedure, it will have to be, in our opinion - I don't know, we may be wrong, obviously the secretariat interprets this matter differently, but we are interpreting it in our Group - so that it will have to be named again in accordance with the new Rules of Procedure. Or we can find that we will not stick to the new rules of procedure at the very beginning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u29	Any of the other MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I will then put to the vote the proposal to extend the agenda of this meeting by means of a proposal for amendments to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. That proposal shall be put to the vote. We're voting. Out of 55 attending 40 for, 13 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that this proposal has broadened the agenda. We will also decide on the proposal to adopt this proposal in a reduced procedure. The mother's working body agrees with the proposal. Excuse me? Please, colleague Jerovšek, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u30	With regard to enlargement points. Intruder [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u31	We're done with the expansion point. There is now a proposal for a shorter procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u32	Then I'll make a procedural suggestion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u33	And what's the suggestion?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u34	Let me explain. At this point, I have seen that there will be insurmountable problems and at the beginning of the implementation of the new Rules of Procedure, as Mr Sok stated. Therefore, Mr President, I propose that we change the additional agenda and that we decide on a smarter solution, a cleaner, legal solution. In order to amend the Rules of Procedure, the new Rules of Procedure, in Article 288, which provides that it shall enter into force on 15 July. I propose - anything can be carried out in the course of this meeting - that a revision of this Rules of Procedure may be drawn up, in order to say that this new Rules of Procedure are not enforced by 1.1.2003. A more clean solution, and we have already proposed this, which we have taken a slightly broader approach to this rule of procedure in the course of the debate, but of course we have been over-voted, and now to avoid all the infringements already in place, I suggest that this point, too, is a genuine change to the rules of procedure, be placed on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u35	You will understand that there is no procedural proposal under the Rules of Procedure. I can't put it to the vote. We are now in the middle of a decision on the shorter procedure. I ask whether I can now put a proposal for a reduced procedure to a vote. I would like to point out that this will not be accepted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. Proposal for a shorter procedure, we vote. 57 present, 41 for, 13 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We will now move on to a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws in a fast procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Services. The Council proposes to adopt it on a rapid basis. Does the government want a word? No, no, no. Do they want a word with qualified speakers? Secretariat? Emissary groups? Nobody? Then we move on to decision-making - please? Dr. Tuck, please. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u36	Yeah. Thank you for your word. We therefore have before us a law on changes and additions to the medical service law. The law does not, even though it does say the EU, deal with problems that would be in any way linked to the entry into the European Union. Secondly, the law deals in two-thirds of its provisions with a problem that is of a highly trade union nature, it is a matter of working time, it is a matter of conditions under which sentences or forms of sentences may be carried out, or how doctors are required to work at the time of the strike, certainly on highly unional issues. And we would expect, if we are already talking about coordination with the European Union in this meeting, that even in the area where we are talking about labour rights, we would require the proponents of similar laws to have a little bit more sense of social coordination, for partners to actually listen to those who are also involved in these developments. In the Health Committee, we found that the text was not in any way coordinated with the social partners, with no medical institution, although the law was talking about doctors. We believe that such an adopted law will certainly not be effective without harmonisation. It won't be effective, it won't have an effect. On the contrary, we fear that it will have a negative effect and will further deepen the great conflict that has already emerged between the executive branch and the medical profession. For this reason, we believe that it is necessary to buy time and room for manoeuvre in order for the applicant to find contact, to find the courage and will, of course, to find contact with the social partner and to bring the text into line with European standards for the second reading. Of course, this is only possible if we place this law in a regular procedure instead of a rapid procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u37	This was the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members on the proposal to deal with this law quickly. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? He does. Please, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. We have also reviewed these laws in our parliamentary group. We note that it would be much better to adopt this law in a normal manner, because it touches a very sensitive area in certain cases. Indeed, for years and years we have been accustomed to one working time and the leap to another working time is problematic. We think that we should go slowly at this time of work and that is why we should take the law on a normal basis, because it would make it easier to reach consensus, including between the social partners and others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u39	Thank you very much, colleague Tisovic. Does any other group of Members want a word? [[I guess not.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We are voting on the proposal for a rapid procedure for the adoption of legislation amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Services. 55 in attendance, 40 in and 14 in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I note that we have accepted the proposal for a rapid procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Safety Act. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? Your mother's working body? Secretariat? Emissary groups? [[Nobody.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal that the proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the Road Safety Act be adopted in a rapid manner. We're voting. We're voting on the proposal. 54 in attendance, 41 in and 4 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against four.]] I note that this proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law on radiation protection and nuclear safety for consideration by the assembly. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? Mother's working body? Secretariat? Emissary groups? [[Nobody.]] Okay. Then I will put the proposal to be adopted on a rapid basis, for a vote. We're voting. 54 in attendance, 42 in and 8 in. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that this proposal for a law will also be dealt with quickly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2002 and 2003. The Assembly proposes that we adopt it quickly. Does the proposer want a word? A representative of the government? Your mother's working body? Secretariat? Emissary groups? [[Nobody.]] Okay. Then I will propose that we adopt the law in a swift manner, to a vote. Please, we are voting on a proposal to decide on a proposal for a fast procedure law. 54 present, 40 for and 11 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 11.]] This bill will be dealt with quickly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on compensation to victims of war and post-war violence. The Council proposes to adopt it as soon as possible, following a rapid procedure. Do qualified speakers want a word? Nobody wants a word. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. The proposal for adoption following a rapid procedure was put to the vote. 51 present, 47 for and none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] We have thus come to a decision on proposals for the adoption of laws following a reduced procedure. First of all, we have a proposal from the government to consider, following a reduced procedure, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on medicines and medical devices. Does the government want a word? It is a proposal to deal with it in a simplified manner. [[No, no, ……]] The mother’s working body agrees with such a proposal. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Other qualified debaters? [[Nobody.]] Then I propose a reduced procedure for examining the bill for voting. We're voting. 52 present, 43 for and 3 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against three.]] I note that we have adopted this proposal for a reduced procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on employment and unemployment insurance. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Qualified debaters want a word. [[They don't want to.]] Then I will put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. The proposal will not be adopted if at least one third of those present oppose it. 51 present, 40 for and 1 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a reduced procedure has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending the Law on Agricultural Lands. It suggests that we adopt it in a simplified manner. Do qualified speakers want a word? [[Nobody.]] Okay. I'm closing the debate. I would like to point out that the proposal must receive a majority which must not be opposed by at least one third of the present. We're voting. The proposal was adopted. Of the 54 present, he was supported by 49 colleagues and no one opposed him. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Forests and has proposed that we adopt it in a reduced procedure. Do qualified speakers want a word? Then I conclude the debate. I caution that at least one third of those present must not oppose him and we vote on him. 47 present, 41 for, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a reduced procedure has been adopted. We have a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the real estate tax law. The government proposes that we adopt it in a short-term manner. Any of the qualified speakers want a word? I'm guessing there's no one. Then I will propose that we adopt it after a reduced procedure, for a vote. Please, we are voting on the proposal for a short-term hearing. 53 present, 44 in, 3 in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] The proposal was adopted. We have a proposal for a law supplementing the law on temporary shelter. For him too, the government proposes that we adopt it in a short-term manner. Any of the qualified speakers want a word? No, no, no. Okay, then I'll put it to the vote. In order to be adopted, one third of the Members present and Members present must not oppose him. We are voting on the proposal for consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. 50 present, 39 for, 11 versus. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 11.]] The proposal was adopted. Thus, we now have before us a draft agenda, as we have received by reference and amendments and additions adopted. Voice explanation, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u40	Notwithstanding the practice that has been put in place today, so that the existing Rules of Procedure are not respected in any provision, I would also like to partially violate the Rules of Procedure by giving an explanation of my vote for the Group of Members. I think we're going to save some time with this, like all three Members of Parliament. We do not intend to support the proposed agenda or the voting agenda in the Slovenian National Party. We do not intend to support this because the possible adoption of points, the positive reception of items on the agenda, will further push our public finances to a negative level or negative balance, and the structure of revenue and expenditure that I have announced or that I have already identified in the consideration of the temporary shelter law, will deepen even further in that direction so that it will be more than 68% of the budget earmarked for only three directions of expenditure. These are interest, wages and social transfers. Where, then, this country of ours, which is given the sails by us Members, does not wonder at the end, at the end of our term or this year, when we will really push this country to what you have all promised we will never do. It is also more than an important argument that we cannot agree to such a agenda, even if it is now public or public, because they did not hope from themselves, the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, to give a document confirming a decision or proving a decision to violate the Rules of Procedure even in that provision when the old Rules of Procedure are being amended, despite the fact that we have already adopted the amendment. This is also the incomprehensible conduct of this national assembly. Mr Borut Pahor, however, you have a statement from the Slovenian National Party that you do not want the Secretariat to submit a written report to the National Assembly when it decides on such important matters as the agenda and thus the classification or non-grading of a particular point, in the event of an apparent breach of the rules of procedure. What does that mean? This means that you are participating in this work as President of the National Assembly and then it is no wonder that this National Assembly is famous in this country as that institution that is not worthy to be trusted. We will not fully support the draft agenda in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u41	Is there any other group or colleagues who would like to explain their vote in the vote? [[No, no, ……]] Okay, then we'll vote on the agenda for this session. We're voting. The agenda is adopted. Between 55 colleagues, 42 colleagues and colleagues supported him, 10 opposed him. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 10.]] I take it that the agenda of the 21st Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been adopted. As you were already informed by letter of 27 June this year, the assembly will meet today and tomorrow until 7 p.m., on Thursday we will work until the end of readings 17, 18 and 19 on Friday until 2 p.m. I think we will start today with point 1 and then point 1.a, by starting with the proposal for a law on ratification of the Convention on the Granting of European Patents, and then continuing with the proposal to amend the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and on the agenda. These were therefore notifications. That way we can move on to 1. Agenda item - Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Convention on the Allocation of European Patents. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The draft law was examined by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Does the chairman want a word? Please, Comrade Kacin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. President. At its 30th extraordinary meeting on 2 July 2002, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Foreign Policy considered a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Convention on the Granting of European Patents. After the discussion, the members of the Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee agreed with the proposed law and therefore proposes that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia consider the proposal at its meeting and adopt it. The rapporteur for the National Assembly will be the chairman of the Committee." In accordance with this Decision, I ask that you consider the proposal favourably and support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u43	Thank you very much, Chairman of the Foreign Policy Committee. Would you like a word with the secretariat, Madam Secretary? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. Doesn't anyone want to? Okay. Then I'll close the debate. By the beginning of the hearing, the amendments had not been tabled, so I propose to the assembly that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we conclude that we will only vote on the proposal for a law in its entirety. That proposal will not be accepted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. May I remind my colleagues that we will now be on the agenda before the first vote? I'm asking everyone to occupy their seats in the hall. Please! I am therefore putting to the vote a motion of procedure to vote, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 213, only on the proposal of the law in its entirety. I am putting this motion to the vote. Excuse me? We are in the middle of a vote on a procedural proposal. Can I ask my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats?I will call everyone from the lobby to the hall again. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Secondly, I shall put to the vote a procedural proposal, as provided for in Article 213, second paragraph. We're voting. We are voting on a procedural proposal. 46 in attendance, 41 in and 2 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] I note that this procedural proposal has been adopted. This way we can move on to a decision on the proposal of the law as a whole. Can we vote? Okay. We are voting on the bill as a whole. Please. We are in the midst of a full vote on the bill. There's enough of us in the hall. Colleagues and colleagues, there are enough of us in the Chamber if we all take part in the vote. Colleagues and colleagues! Secondly, I will put to the vote, inviting everyone who is in the Chamber to take part in the vote. Please, we are voting on the bill as a whole. 47 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. Thank you very much for your participation in the decision-making process. We move on to the 1st A-point of the agenda, that's on the proposal to change the operative. My colleague Bojan Kontič has tabled these amendments into the procedure. Would you like a word, Comrade Kontic? [[Yes, you do.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! With the proposed amendment to the Rules of Procedure, we are allowing the appointment of a mandate-holder commission already under the current rules of procedure. In fact, we are preventing the situation arising from the implementation of the new Rules of Procedure, which provides in Article 285 that, as from the date of the entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure, the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission and the Commission on Mandate and Immunity will cease to work. The National Assembly should appoint the President and Vice-President of the Election Commission no later than 15 days after the entry into force of this Rules of Procedure. This is the time when the new Rules of Procedure do not provide for a regular meeting of the National Assembly. I therefore propose an appropriate adaptation already in the framework of the current Rules of Procedure in order to amend it by following new requirements that are not yet in force. In this way, at this meeting, which we have started today, we could adopt these amendments to the Rules of Procedure and allow the 21st Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly to be held at this extraordinary meeting, including the appointment of a President and a Vice-President or the establishment of a Commission on Elections. In doing so, I would like to stress only that I am assessing that there will be no financial implications, except for those positive ones, because it actually allows us to carry out all these activities at this meeting and does not require an extraordinary reference or a call for an extraordinary meeting after 15 July. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u45	I ask whether the Rules of Procedure Commission, which has considered the proposal for an act, has appointed a rapporteur. And if he wants a word. He doesn't want a word. No, no, we're in the middle of a hearing. You don't want a word. I'll give you my word. I'm just trying to run this session right. Please, my friend Peca. Now you have the floor for procedural. Please. If I ask the rapporteur of the working body, if he wants a word, I would like to hear his answer first, and then I will give the floor to the person who wants the word for procedural. You have it, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u46	In view of the practice so far, I am making a procedural proposal that the item you have placed on the agenda of today's meeting should be suspended for as long as the Members in their parliamentary panels receive the report of the Legal Affairs Secretariat. I think it would make sense that, at least this time, today's meeting should follow established practices and some order, if we already expect that from the people for whom we are supposed to work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u47	Can you explain that, Madam Secretary? You asked for my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u48	Mr President, I would like to have the floor, as usual, for each proposal for an act at the outset, with regard to the opening presentations. The Secretariat shall explain in an introductory manner, giving its views by the Rules of Procedure. It is not bound by the Rules of Procedure to give written opinions. Usually, according to established practice, he gives them. However, we can see that the proposed act is not a normal practice. The opinion was delivered by the secretariat on the proposal for this act to the Business Commission as a parent working body. He did not oppose the proposed changes for legal or constitutional reasons. However, it did not explicitly support them, as is the case with the report of the parent working body, because it is indifferent to these changes. He made two concrete comments on the text itself, both of which were taken into account under the amendments of the Business Commission. In the end, I'd like to give this explanation. The rules of procedure in force are in force in full and in all dimensions and can therefore be amended. The new Rules of Procedure are not in force and cannot be amended for legal reasons at this time. There are no confirmed violations in these respects, as have been stated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u49	He suggested that we obtain this opinion in writing. Isn't that right, buddy Peca? I will put this opinion to the vote. I ask you to vote that this opinion be obtained in writing, which has been said orally.48 attended. 14 for and 33 for. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 33.]] The National Assembly decided that this opinion should not be given in writing. Would you like a representative of the government? I now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members, if they so wish. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. I will support the proposed amendments to the Rules of Procedure. If you remember, this deficiency was mainly due to the change in the provision that later referred to when the Rules of Procedure entered into force. That's why there's been this awkwardness, if I may say so. We are talking about the transitional provisions of the future rules of procedure. I want him to live well in the National Assembly in September. There will be something waiting for us, in my opinion, that's a very difficult day to bring him to life. And allow me here, because the report of the Rules of Procedure Commission also speaks of transitional provisions, one that could become somewhat controversial in September. We have one law in the procedure that will break with the rules of procedure and we have interrupted it in the middle of the second hearing, this is the War Cemetery Act. There are several amendments to this law, I think we have a few amendments to Article 13. I would ask if perhaps the secretariat could provide an answer to the question of the status of the amendment of the Government. I have in front of me the transitional provisions of Article 284 in particular point 5.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u51	Comrade Podobnik, can I just warn you kindly, because you know that this is not a proposal for this subject of change.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u52	I think it is because it speaks of transitional provisions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u53	No, no, no. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u54	The transitional provisions are the content of the revision of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u55	It's only one article in transit. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u56	Yeah, maybe it would be good to get this answer, or it'll be a dilemma in September. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u57	Anyone else want a word from their colleagues? [[He does.]] Comrade Kelemin and colleague Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u58	Thank you very much. In my name, by such a way of changing, adapting the current situation to what the National Assembly currently needs and so on, I do not agree. I strongly oppose this way of working; if this is now a practice, as I have already mentioned, even in advance, that we will not be able to solve any of the problems in which we are facing or are not sufficiently resolved in the provisions of the new Rules of Procedure, to amend the Rules of Procedure again and so on, I do not know where this will lead. It appears that, as you were used to before, in the previous and previous terms, we will always be in breach of the provisions of the current Rules of Procedure and adapt them to the current situation - a hundred times and a hundred times the Rules of Procedure have been violated. This is the fact that - so now immediately in the beginning, before the entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure, such things are beginning to happen. I don't know how you can afford such things, how? If I were to propose a new Rules of Procedure myself, I would not have foreseen such solutions, where we would have known that on 15 July we would have set off the holiday of the National Assembly, which will continue until 1 September, which, according to my assessment, is unacceptable, a month and a half now we will be paddling there, I will be waiting until 1 September when I come back to the National Assembly - this is unacceptable to me. And now, because you didn't know exactly when the vacation was about to start and so on, we're having this kind of trouble now. Let's wait until August 1st, and then we'll go on vacation and we can accept it in peace! We have a lot of work to do and we can work until August 1st. Why does the old rules have to be changed on the nose now? This seems to me to be a pure act of the current situation, and I firmly believe that this will happen in the future. But remember well, the new Rules of Procedure will be studied thoroughly, each word individually. If you continue to do so, you will, of course, have all the levers, for the first time most of them, for the second time there are many such provisions in the new Rules of Procedure, where you will silence us so that we cannot speak and so on. I hope that the Slovenian democratic public may also turn around once and say that that is enough. I don't know. I'm expecting this. Maybe I'm wrong. I really cannot accept such very bad solutions, and I am very disappointed in this way of working. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u59	I didn't want to interrupt you, colleague Kelemin - we're changing the existing rules of procedure, it's not about changing the new rules. My colleague Sok wanted a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Of course, we all understand, Mr Anderlič was appointed rapporteur on the Rules of Procedure Commission, and he did not want to report then, but he could have said that on the committee that he would not, and would have appointed someone else. We all know that we are changing the current rules of procedure and that the electoral commission is called Kviaz, and we are merging the Commission's mandate-immunity committee into one, which is a mandate-holder commission. In this way, we will change the rules of procedure and, if I understand correctly, we will appoint members of this Commission immediately after the publication of the decree. However, the new Rules of Procedure states in Article 285 that, within 15 days of the entry into force of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly shall appoint a Election Commission for a term of office. In my opinion, it would be legally clear if this 285 article were to be written in the same way as that of the Secretariat of Law, it is said that the Commission's mandate-holder is to continue its work. That would be - the secretariat claims otherwise - legally clean. It is understood that, in any event, the National Assembly should appoint a mandate-holder commission, although in the same composition, the same members to be appointed in accordance with this correction during this week. Otherwise, I cannot explain this business arrangement. However, if we go in a different way, then of course I find that Parliament will not respect Article 285 of the new Rules of Procedure at the outset. I would really like the secretariat to answer this dilemma, because I have not yet received an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u61	My friend Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u62	Before the first decision, I would refer, on behalf of the Group of Members, to paragraph 72, to see whether it is the right decision or not. That is why we would like to have a break for consultation in the parliamentary group when there will be a position on the tape record that the secretariat does not wish to make in writing so that we can at least study it in the parliamentary group. Please take this into account before the first vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u63	How long will it take?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u64	Until the magnetic record is defined.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u65	Good. Someone else wants a debate. Please, Dr. Cuckoo's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Well, we have now experienced the first problem facing the new rules of procedure. The new Rules of Procedure provide for a leave of 15 July. During vacations, things calm down, but at the same time they predict and somehow require the state council to appoint a new commission within 15 days. That's an awkward dilemma. I don't know, it seems strange to me that some people actually feel or wonder at the moment that we haven't seen this before when we've adopted the rules of procedure. The opposition saw these things. She asked, she pleaded, she proposed, but no proposal was adopted. Finally, we have proposed that the rules of procedure should enter into force on 1 January 2003. That was taken, too. And now we find ourselves in a situation where we need to change or change the old rules of procedure to avoid the conflict that has led to such a vote on the new rules of procedure. Okay, this is for us. We're gonna have to eat this hot soup. Everyone, of course, including the opposition. After all, we want the National Assembly to function as it should. But at the same time, we are also enacting laws by voting on all the opposition's kind warnings. At the next point of the Medical Service Act, that's how it's gonna be. The hot soup will have to be eaten by others and, of course, we will have to correct our decision at the request of the Constitutional Court. As far as the rules of procedure are concerned, it is likely that what is proposed is the only way to correct the first mistake. Which will be next, we'll see in the fall. Sorry, that's right. As I said, there is still a lot in this hot soup that ours is coming in the fall, but luckily we will have to process the mistakes of the Rules of Procedure ourselves and not carry these mistakes on our shoulders, as will the next items of this session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u67	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u68	Thank you very much. This discussion, I will say, is particularly important for the reason that it is trying, in a formal corrective way, to resolve a situation which is basically very simple, not to say bizarre. The new Rules of Procedure have a clear and clean solution regarding the transition of working bodies from the previous system to a system that will enter into force after 15 July. There is also a clear solution in this point of the new Commission. Therefore, it is not a matter of any play here, but it is in principle a very simple question whether, in the old rules of procedure, this new commission is allowed to be mandated or, as it is said, I apologize for moving into the new system in the same way as all the other working bodies of the assembly, or moving under the terms of Article 285. These are the only two bodies that will terminate the new Rules of Procedure on the day of its entry into force. This means, for all those who claim, especially for Mr Kelemino and his fellow Members, that it is not necessary for the new Rules of Procedure to lead to any breach. However, this means a very clear obligation to convene a meeting of the assembly by 30 July or to appoint this new working body within 15 days. This is the hidden reason for this, in my opinion I agree with the criticism of this solution, even unnecessary operations, because it could be written there instead of in 15 days, say, at the first regular session or whatever. But also to this detail, I must say that in the debate on the new rules of procedure, in fact, no one has warned or there has been an amendment which would have foreseen this solution, it was clear that the same would happen. Therefore, the dilemma is very simple: whether it is accepted and reduced, it is necessary to remove this requirement after the reference of one sitting or, to say the least, it is not necessary to waste time in doing so, since the new Rules of Procedure make it absolutely clear that it is necessary to convene this meeting within 15 days. This should be in front of your eyes when it comes to making decisions. If these decisions are not taken and published today in the manner that any amendment to the Rules of Procedure must be published, the procedures by the end of the week cannot be carried out and the President of the National Assembly will have to inform us on Friday which of those days will be set for the meeting of the National Assembly, and thus I will say that he will be satisfied with all the solutions that are perfect in here, but unfortunately humanly impractical.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u69	Anyone else want a word? Please, Comrade Kebrich. First of all, we have a proposal here to set a holiday for consultation. Is half an hour enough, buddy Peca? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u70	Mr Pahor, I ask you to order such a long recess until there is no magnetic record of the Secretariat's position, given that the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members needs it in its decision-making.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u71	Look, fellow Peca, an oral opinion has been given. I believe a magnetogram is being prepared. I suggest we set up some time. If you want to hear the secretariat's opinion once again, he can give it to you. If the tape isn't ready, I'll ask the secretary to dictate this. I would like to continue the meeting in order not to delay decisions for such or other reasons. Just a minute. We'll wait for the magnetogram. I suggest we set up a half-hour break first, see if that's enough. Comrade Kebrich, have you had any further suggestions? Please. After this performance, I'm going to set a half-hour break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u72	Thank you for your word. I ask whether it would be a solution - I ask the secretariat, procedurally - that if we cannot agree on anything, this matter can be resolved at a correspondence meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u73	No, no, I can answer that myself. There's no way. So I conclude the debate. I'm doing half an hour's rest. At 3:52 p.m., we'll continue the session until then.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u74	It's 15.52. I'll be there in a few minutes, so I'll ask all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. I would like to remind you that, on the basis of Article 94 of the Constitution, all substantive decisions relating to the consideration of this proposal, which is on the agenda, will be taken if two thirds of the Members and Members vote for them, so please all if they wish to participate in the decision not to be absent from the National Assembly. I would like to remind you that we have concluded the debate so that we can move on to a second reading. Can you please, colleagues and colleagues come to the hall? While we are close to being present, because this is a decision under Article 94 of the Constitution, I would like to ensure that everyone who so wishes attends, so I will wait a minute. We have a two-thirds quorum. Please, I won't wait long. It's been a while. We'll go to another reading. Colleagues and colleagues, may I establish presence? Please press the "quorum" button. Please, colleagues and colleagues, we are in the middle of reporting. Press the quorum, please. There are enough of us in the hall, 47 colleagues and colleagues. We are at the point when we move to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on the individual articles of the draft act. Once again, I would like to point out that we will take a decision on the basis of Article 94 of the Constitution and that we will adopt all the substantive decisions concerning the consideration of this proposal of the Rules of Procedure if two thirds of the Members present and Members present vote for them. I will first propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles, we discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We have a procedural proposal. We're voting on him. The procedural proposal shall be put to the vote. 47 present. 38 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against three.]] I understand he's been accepted. We will now turn to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We have a proposal to amend Article 3. That's what I'm putting into consideration. There's no wish for a word. Let us vote on the proposal to amend Article 3 as set out in the report of the Rules of Procedure Commission. Let's vote please! We have an amendment to Article 3 amending this Article. Let's vote! 51 present. 40 for and 7 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have an amendment for the new 7a. Nobody wants a word and I put it to the vote. Let's vote! It's on page 2 of your report. 49 present. 40 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] I understand he's been accepted. We will now decide, in accordance with the procedural proposal, to vote on the articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Nobody wants a word. Let us vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote! Please, colleagues and colleagues, for your attention. 50 present. 42 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I'm guessing we're in. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the act. I'm putting to the vote the title of the act. Let's vote! 49 present. 37 for and 4 for. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the title of the act has been fully adopted. The third hearing is in front of us. Would qualified candidates like to table amendments? [[No, no, ……]] That way we can move on to decision-making. Is there a problem with compliance? [[No, no, ……]] Then the National Assembly may proceed to the decision on the act in its entirety. Let's vote on the whole act, please! Let's vote on the whole act! The Act has been adopted. Of the 54 attendings, 39, 11 were opposite. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 11.]] I understand that the act has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Thank you very much. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY — DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE HEALTH SERVICE LAW. In accordance with the decision of the National Assembly, we will decide on it quickly. I ask for your attention in the National Assembly, including the governments we are expecting in the Chamber. Mr. Secretary is on his way. I'll ask him if he wants a word. [[Yeah.]] Then we will wait for the Minister to come to the bench and explain the reasons for the bill for the main speaker and the National Assembly. Minister Dr. Keber has the floor. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u75	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Service Act. At the outset, I would like to stress, the Medical Service Act, not the Doctors Act - this is the law on how doctors serve their citizens. A law which, of course, included the rights and obligations of doctors, but their rights and obligations vis-à-vis the two million citizens served by these doctors. I think that's why doctors, or this job, are one of the few people who get their own marriage as a profession, with few rare exceptions. I would therefore like to start by saying that the law, which brings in addition to urgent changes due to European legislation, has also been supplemented by some, is rare, which has proved to be meaningful, which, last but not least, some of them have been promised this year by the government during the doctor's sentence, that this is the right way to get to this law. Allow me in the general debate - because I want to have some comments later on the individual articles, if necessary - I will say the main solutions to the law. First of all, what the law needed to be adapted to the European Union. This is working time and working restrictions over full-time. A provision has been adopted in the European Union saying that a doctor should not work more than 8 hours a week over full-time. In view of the fact that even in Europe where on average there are significantly more doctors than in Slovenia, this law could not be implemented immediately, the Directives of the European Union provided for until 2011, when these provisions are adopted, saying that these provisions in the European Union are only for the youngest specialised doctors, whereas in our resolution of the law we include in these transitional provisions all other doctors, but only until 2004, and later set by 2011, when the last deadline is to limit the full-time work to 8 hours per week and apply to all others. In addition to this working time, we have introduced some more accurate descriptions of what on-calling is, what readiness is, because in the present law this has been inaccurate, perhaps I am, and also irregularly there, but it has certainly been possible to have a double understanding of what on-calling is. Let me mention, once again, I refer to the debate of the last year, whether on-call work can be described as a work consisting of effective work and inefficient work or not, or whether the European Union may even oppose it and perhaps this is even the reason for this law to fall before the European Court of Justice. Allow me to say here that Europe also knows the division of hours on duty in this way. Europe also knows a different payment for these hours, that in Slovenia we even belong to countries that pay better on-call hours than elsewhere. If we did not have this provision, there would be no reason for us to know the watch at all, since then it would be easier to solve the problem by more doctors and by working in shifts. Thus we have defined this provision in this law, but it does not mean anything new. This definition makes sense in the previous collective agreement, not by these terms, but in the everyday jargon, this nomenclature has already been applied in an effective and ineffective hours. Then we added to the working hours because it aroused objections by medical organisations, the possibility that the morning work would normally not start before 8 a.m. I would like to draw attention to the definition of ‘rules’. In doing so, we also wanted to resolve the question from the point of view of the public system that it is necessary to increase the efficiency of the use of equipment and premises and that we have identified that where such parts are used more than 12 hours a day and work in such places is organised in the alternating work, the work can also start before 8 a.m. in the morning. We think that, in fact, we are satisfied with the criterion that we are actually proposing a very gradual and meaningful start with this so-called shift of working time to 8.00, allowing myself one mild anecdotes. Many people, of course, are not only concerned with health, already starting in a European way at 8 a.m. The problem is that it ends in a European way. We just want to write what is necessary in this law. The second thing that the law is needed for is not European, but is necessary, is the general situation. This year, we had to make it public that we have a delay in hiring the youngest doctors. In the past, this country has already done again for this profession as an exception because education is expensive, because we cannot afford to see graduates of the medical faculty be a year, two or more unemployed, covered by its own resources from the budget of the salaries of trainees and second-graders. At the same time, the salaries of the specialists have so far been included in the payment of health services by health insurance, but it is precisely in this area for known reasons, objectively, because of the lack of money, because they sometimes fall into the system of health care, sometimes in unjustified losses, that there has been a temporary interruption of continuous employment, which is what we want with the law at work when it comes to the salaries of the specialists, to prevent. The mercenary is still the same. The money is still provided in health services, but this money is granted when the employer actually employs a specialist. We believe that in this way we have simply enabled a federal transition from a diploma to a profession without any substantial interruption. At the same time, at the same time, I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Labour Relations Act, although we have proposed at the time, has not been adopted that doctors should be able to work additionally with another employer, of course with the employer's consent. This was then approved for some of the professions specifically listed, not for doctors. We're bringing it back into this law, as it was agreed then, I'll say, doomed. We do, however, because we believe that this is not a doctor's privilege, but that it is a simple act of the State at a time when we find that doctors are too small and that a doctor with two employers or three employers in the public system can also transfer his knowledge and work to other locations rather than ensure everything in one place. The third area covered by this law could be said to be partly challenged by this year, but not only this year, but also by a sentence from six years ago, is a clearer definition of what a doctor should do despite a statement. In doing so, I agree with those who believe that already in the present law, for someone who ethically and rationally looks at what the determination means that everything has actually been written in the present law. It has been written that a doctor with his sentence must not make the patient worse or bring the patient into a condition where the disease would get worse, not to say that she would end the patient's death. It turned out that there were certain specific situations where there were possible ambiguities. Most typical: the patient wants to order for an examination on the phone or for an examination and tell him that a sentence is made and that it should come at the end of the sentence. It is therefore stated in this law that despite the sentence, a doctor must carry out each first examination of his patient to the extent possible to rule out a condition that may make life worse for the patient. This is the essence of this description, the rest of which, of course, is a little wider, again only some states specifically define, and the most urgent one does not write. The most urgent are self-involved. The most urgent are described in the fourth indent of our Article 6 proposal, which states, "other emergency medical services". The first three indents describe situations where ambiguity occurred again - a fever or if it is flu and if it is found that it is probably flu, over the phone, it may be sufficient if the patient turns out to be snorting into a severe sepsis or a fever without examination. The same is true, say, for minor injuries. A minor injury does not, in principle, endanger health. However, a minor injury can lead to disaster. So it's clear that this has to be written. I would say, therefore, that when I conclude this paragraph, which is interpreted by some as being that it is almost impossible to strike under such an article, it will be as possible to strike under this Article as it has been so far if the doctor is aware of the mission of his profession. Thus, we are merely more precise and to avoid some complaints that would follow and to identify the responsibility of an individual or of an employer, we have also written these things down for the right purpose. The title area could be said briefly. Among the existing medical titles, we have introduced another model of Europe, a European country that was missing from the pyramid of medical professions. Doctors have rightly observed that their pyramid of professions and associated incomes has a broad base and a very narrow peak. We have included under the top of this pyramid a consultant specialist, who is expected to be approximately 20% of all doctors in this workplace, thus creating a normal pyramid, which also leads to the current highest-ranking term counsellor and doctor senior advisor. Allow me to finally say a few words about presenting this law to the public to partners, which is often evident. This law was presented on the social economic council and received support. It was presented only after a presentation on the Social Economic Council, including a union of health workers who have comments, but their comments, according to our opinion, are meaningfully answered in this law. The basic negotiating sides of the doctors cooperated with the law. I am thinking of a chamber that worked with us, but it did not agree with certain solutions. In the end, of course, the Fides union remains. At this point, I'd say very simple. All that is written in this law has been an integral part of the negotiation with doctors for many years. Last time I said a few months. Finally, in an attempt to conclude a collective agreement with them. It would be difficult to accept the claim that doctors are not informed of what the Ministry of Citizens and also for doctors in this law is planning and proposing. It is true, however, that this law is certainly written for all citizens, including doctors, and that so-called Members of the Tsukjati have heard, trade union items are sometimes not resolved in the talks. And these talks can take many years, and yet they are not resolved because, of course, the conflict of interest or individual interests are so great that this agreement is not being reached. Therefore, I would just say that, in many of its points, this law literally introduces good things for doctors as well, that perhaps from a union point of view it is the most questionable when it introduces some small orders in the field of working time, that from the point of view of the liberality of individuals between you it may seem controversial. At this point, I would like to remind you that this profession is a fully public service. It's not just his profession, but he has to be organised to suit his citizens. As we set the working hours of trade, as we set the working hours of many other services, it is necessary - and not only at the level of unionism, but also at the level of legislation - to convince us - to put at least the framework into law so that this working time, which clearly also includes a very large obligation of doctors, a 24-hour commitment and the provision of medical care, can be better achieved and that we can avoid what has prevailed, I can say, for the last 20, 30 years. Who will be the first, who will be among the hospitals, who will be the first to break the 40-year habit of starting at 6:00 or 7:00 in the morning and not moving to more normal parts of the day, as is usually the case in the vast majority of other countries, especially those with whom we want to compare. I would mention that the government fully agrees with the amendments that have also helped to shape, the Health Committee, the family and the social policy that are ahead of you. Today, at the letter meeting, she brought three more amendments, which I hope you have already received, in which I can only mention that we are fully responding to some other amendments that have emerged, such as the amendments by young parties and some others, which have also already been discussed on the Health Committee, but have not come to the text itself. In short, the three amendments before you and, if necessary, we will comment specifically on them in the debate on individual amendments, they also have our support, and I think they reflect what the Members have said and had comments on the parliamentary committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. At this point, our co-worker shares the amendments tabled by the government. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. It's a decent body. I ask if he has appointed a rapporteur? Please, colleague Danica Simšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u77	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr Minister and Representative and representative of the Ministry, distinguished colleagues and colleagues and representatives of the Secretariat! At its 13th extraordinary meeting on 3 July, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities discussed the proposal for that law, which is proposed in the parliamentary procedure following a rapid procedure. In addition to representatives of the Government and Members and Members of the Committee, a representative of the secretariat for legislation, representatives of the Medical Chamber, representatives of Fides and representatives of the Health Insurance Office also participated. In addition to the legal text, we received the opinion of the secretariat, the comments of the Medical Chamber, the Economic and Social Council and the position of the Young Doctors Section and the comments of the Health and Social Welfare Union. The introductory explanation was given by Dr Keber, the Minister of Health, and I would not like to summarize it right now, as the Minister was very exhausted in this presentation in the National Assembly. The law regulates a number of areas, ranging from the salaries of specialists to the working hours of doctors, limits work over full-time work, aligns with the European Directive, defines the work of doctors at the time of the sentence and the opportunity to work with another employer, in line with the Labour Relations Act. Members and members of the Committee have also been informed of the very broad and comprehensive opinion of the Secretariat and a number of comments. On the basis of these comments, the Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee also adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Act, supported by the Government. Therefore, on behalf of your fellow Members and colleagues, I ask you, on behalf of the Committee, to support these amendments, because in the end the Committee has adopted a proposal that it gives to the National Assembly for its assessment and consideration, namely to support the law in accordance with the procedure envisaged by the Committee's amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u78	Thank you very much for reporting to the committee. He wants the word "secretariat"? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They want to.]] First, I give the floor to the representative of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Comrade Tuck, please. Then Ana Maria Tisovic and forward in order.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. Your Honors are here! We have before us a law that deeply interferes not so much with standards and in improving health care as with the work of individual structures of health workers, that is, doctors. First of all, I'd like to mention that we're dealing with a lot of questions. Because of the diversity of these issues, we have already stressed at the outset, introductoryly, that such a scale of change should certainly be better weighed and not adopted in a rapid manner. Initially, the proposal regulates the financing of specialisations. This is an attempt to resolve a problem that we have been alerting for a long time. In this part, this Article, with improvements, could achieve an appropriate text. Here comes the second part, with Article 2, to which we have many concerns and allow me to summarize them in full. First, the law tries to determine the regular working hours of doctors. It is very embarrassing to set regular working hours with the law, because working hours are very different or worktime needs are very different. On the one hand, we have basic health care, outpatient activity, hospital activity, diagnostic drive. On the other hand, we also have other healthcare professionals who cannot start on their own and also have to regulate their working time, since health is a typical activity carried out in teams. On the one hand, the law says that doctors usually start working hours before 8 p.m. In the amendment that we received five minutes ago, a few applicants want to overwhelm this nonsense, I repeat, nonsense, by saying: "Doctors working at workplaces in clinics or in technologically demanding diagnostic therapeutic units and beyond can be deployed in shifts due to the greatest possible exploitation of premises and equipment. Their work can begin before 8 a.m.." I worked in the infirmary for a long time. It has been a long time since we introduced the order system long before the new health legislation, including in the general infirmary, ordering from 7 a.m. to 10 minutes. And I'll tell you, the most scheduled appointments were until 8 a.m. Since I worked on the tour, the most busy dates were again after 4:00 p.m. I don't think it's a question of taking advantage of the premises because I was alone in the infirmary, but it's a question of offering patient-friendly activities. Of course, these things cannot be determined by law. That doesn't make any sense. It's a unique. Next. Here, too, and as the proposalr has now observed, it was initially pointless to determine, as a rule, what everyone cannot do before 8 a.m., even though it is at the clinic and at the clinical centre pressure is right on the morning, on the morning, I stress, but he tried to fix it with some improvement. I am sure, I am sure, that in one year we will have a number of proposals to improve this nonsense, to save our working hours with the law. I think he's here in the middle of working time in hospitals. This was also recognised by the proposer in the debate on the Committee. However, I would suggest here that the Ministry be aware of its institutional responsibilities to hospitals and, in some way, in its policy, could otherwise, a more common way to resolve the issue of working time in hospitals whose founder is the ministry or government. The second question is, of course, on-call duty, where effective and ineffective hours are defined here. The Labour Relations Act clearly states that working time is the time when a worker is at work and is available to the employer. There is no difference between effective and ineffective. If a worker behind a running lane stands and looks into the air, he must be paid as much as he does when working. It's not his fault the liquid tape stays. And it is impossible and, of course, contrary to the Labour Relations Act, to make such a distinction. We already see here that this is a radical violation of the labour law. On the other hand, it has been explained that it is effective ineffective, so it is said that what the doctor is doing directly with the patient, from the moment he gets it, and until the moment he finishes, is otherwise paid, than when he waits for the patient, to the accident on duty or something like that, it's some kind of plot, some way worse due to the billing of duty. I think that the mode of accounting or the cost of a watch or whatever is completely different is a problem, and it needs to be solved differently, but not by this pivotal leap and conflict with the labour law. It is also, of course, also a strange approach to the definition of what a doctor is obliged to do at the time of the sentence. This is certainly a matter that must be defined. I have to say, when the Law on Medical Services was being prepared, there was much debate between doctors, all important European solutions were being compared, and the fact is, in fact, that the doctor's obligation is so extensive, and so, I would say, delicate that it is not possible to define it by listing the services or by listing the condition in which the doctor has to cut. And that's exactly what the minister was trying to do. In view of the fact that the previous Article 46 of the Medical Service Act said: "Doctor is obliged at the time of the sentence to perform those medical services whose suspension would soon lead to irreparable serious health impairment or death." And of course all hospital services for patients under 18 and over 65 years of age, this is said for all adolescents, children and elderly, and all medical services related to pregnancy and childbirth. That's what it says now. And I would ask you if during the two long sentences based on this article there was one case in Slovenia where there was a serious health disorder due to the failure of the doctor who struck. No, because we or doctors also have a code of medical ethics and similar more binding elements, which also define doctor's obligations in detail, even so far as a doctor has to provide emergency medical care when on vacation, even when he is on the road home, even when he is out of work. It must, however, not specify the individual services listed. That makes two mistakes. I'll take the minister's proposal into my hands. The minister says, "At the time of the strike, in particular, the treatment of heat conditions and infections is required." You know what that means. It means all the findings, all the ordinary viruses. This means that infection is also an infection of the skin, a stain or, say, fungal on the legs, for 10 years, it's an infection, it's an infection and so on. On that note, we're already running into a lot of nonsense. I don't know if it could have been written by one doctor, but I can't imagine. Still, performing first examinations without a waiting period. What the minister or proposer refers to as an extremely happy plot. You know what this means, doing the first checks right now. It's not happening outside the sentence either. Where, how? A dermatologist gets, say, 100 patients a day, and for the first time, he'll only be looking at 30 patients. Only 30, because he can't check them 100, and he doesn't have to. Everyone here, and the dermatologist will have to look at that nail. He'll have to, at the time of the strike. He won't have to go outside the sentence, but he'll have to look at it at the time of the strike. That's what the law says. We have emergency ambulances, and those at the time of strike or outside the time of strike, IPP and so on, you all know, these are emergency ambulances, and here work night and day without regard to strike. Things are a little different in life than they say here. I'm moving on, overtime. The Labour Relations Act states that a maximum of 8 hours per week, 20 hours per month, or 180 hours per year. It states in the law that a single document, an individual act, a law, may also be otherwise laid down. However, the Labour Relations Act is in its statutory nature a protection of workers' interests, a minimum of workers' rights. And no law or act may impose worse working conditions or deny rights to the workers referred to in this Act. And in article 81a, the proponent says, not 8 hours a week, but he can work 15 hours or even 25 hours a week. Is it really in the patient's interest that a doctor, or maybe a 60-year-old, tired, maybe because of all the things that are possible, will have to do another 25 hours a week if the employer invents himself, and that's unlimited, one year, otherwise the amendment says, in the new amendment, four months. Unlimited four months, every day, every week 25 hours of overtime. I don't know who's gonna make it, no big harm to the patient, no new medical errors that can be fatal. Of course, that's when someone's gonna answer, and they're gonna blink and point the finger at that mistake. The law states when a worker can be forced to work more than 8 hours a week in basic accidents, accidents, or disasters that threaten him. The duty is predictable. Traffic accidents are predictable things. Of course, if a car crash or a plane goes down, then all the teams will stay at work, but these are unpredictable things. Regular duty has a predictable spectrum of work, very predictable. Let me get this straight. In this respect, of course, it is also a wrong reference to the law on working relations in explanatory matters, then to the Directives of the European Union, to the case law cited by it. It is a European problem of lack or how to involve overtime or on duty in regular work or how to define the rights of doctors who are also workers in this case. This, as envisaged by the Labour Relations Act, is possible only in some consensus with operators, in agreement with the social partner, with a collective agreement and so on. Doctors have repeatedly said that the lack of doctors, a problem they are aware of, is that this needs to be addressed in some agreement, in some consensus. And that's not what this marriage is about. That is exactly what the proposalr did not do. I don't know why. But all medical organizations, from the medical community, the medical board and the Fides trade unions, have unanimously rejected such interference in their working relationships, such interference in their working hours, overtime, duty and the like. I believe that this is a poor journey in solving this problem, and I fear that we will soon be witnessing the need to change this, as we have changed the Health and Health Insurance Act in a few months, but it will probably be much harder now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u80	Thank you very much. You will be followed by a colleague Ana Marija Tisovic on behalf of the new Slovenia Group. I don't want to interrupt the introductory groups. I would like to point out that we are now in the middle of a general debate and that the position on individual amendments can also be presented later. I'll put my word behind you to my colleague Stemberger. Please, you have the word of a colleague of Tisovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u81	President, thank you for your word. The Parliamentary Group of the New Slovenia has decided to vote against the adoption of amendments and to supplement the Health Service Act by a rapid procedure. The legal complement and the changes affect a very sensitive area, such as on-calls, the provision of continuous first aid, also affecting the working time of doctors and working at the time of sentences. But we were outvoted. A legal proposal that is not best prepared in our opinion must be adopted in a form that is acceptable to doctors and, more importantly, to patients in order to be able to live. The law is supposed to be implemented with as few complications as possible. The bill provides that the money that is intended for specialisations and specialists is indeed spent for this purpose, which we agree, of course. However, I would like to highlight another issue that arises with specialists. Specialists, these are young doctors who are employed for a certain period of time, do not have the conditions to rent loans. When the young doctor finishes his specialty, he's 30 years old. Until then, however, it is very difficult to obtain any credit to equip an apartment or buy a car. The next thing you know, this law is doctor's hours. In early 2003, a new law, the Labour Relations Act, will apply to all employees and their employers. In view of the specificity of healthcare work, it is necessary to consider what can be done by means of sub-laws and what needs to be addressed by changes and additions to the medical service law. This should also take into account the opinion of the union, in particular in that part of the law governing work during the medical sentence. With regard to the regulation of medical titles, the new Slovenia's parliamentary group believes that this can be resolved by means of sub-legislative acts. Finally, I would like to point out once again that, in the opinion of our Group of Members, changes and additions to the Medical Service Act should be adopted on a normal basis, as this could avoid any later complications in the implementation of this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u82	Thank you very much, colleague Tisovic. Comrade Štemberger, now you have your word, I'll put it behind you to my colleague Squirrel. Does any other group then want a word? DeSUS's emissary group. First, my colleague, Štemberger. Please, on behalf of the youth group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u83	Thank you for your word. We have before us a bill amending and supplementing the Medical Service Act. On a scale, this is a short law, and the content of it is no less important. The bill successfully tackles the financing of young specialist doctors. Unfortunately, this is also all that good proposed changes in the law bring us. In the Young Slovenia Party, we are not quite sure that the working time and on-call of doctors is precisely part of this law. This is regulated by the new Labour Relations Act and the applicable health legislation. However, all open issues can be addressed through a collective agreement, of course on the basis of negotiations, and we therefore understand the fast-track enforcement of this law as an attempt to improve the government's negotiating bases to the social partners. As far as the working time of doctors is concerned, we will face the first sentence of Article 81.b, which states that the restrictions of working over full-time for secondary and specialised persons will not apply until 1 August 2004. Then, from 1 August 2004 to 1 August 2011, a gradual limitation of the onset or overtime of young doctors is introduced. Apparently, these doctors at work can be unlimited, so to speak, without rest. For each employee, this is totally lifeless, and this is a very dangerous way of working for patients, as a tired doctor cannot perform the work of patients normally and collectively. We are also reminded of this by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs of the National Assembly. Therefore, the Parliamentary Groups of the Party of Young Slovenia propose that this article be deleted from the law because it seems absolutely unnecessary for young doctors to be treated with some different criteria than others. If we are lacking in medical personnel, we should not substitute for this deficiency with unlimited duties of young doctors, that is, secondary and specialist. In the European Union, there is a guideline regulating working hours for all employees, the so-called The European working time directive, which has included young doctors since 22 June 2000. This Directive provides that the average working time for each 7-day period shall not exceed 48 hours. There's an 11-hour rest every 24 hours. An uninterrupted 35-hour rest period shall be counted for each 7-day period. There must be a break every 6 hours and all employees have the right to an annual leave of four weeks. At present, Member States of the European Union are in a transitional period which allows for the adaptation of legislation and the organisation of the health care of individual Member States in accordance with the European Guidelines. Until 1 August 2004, the government in the field of working time arrangements for specialists in the European Union will have some legal void. These guidelines do not say that the specialists can be burdened indefinitely, which we are now supposed to accept. We must take into account that these guidelines have been adopted by the European Union countries, which to some extent have a stable health system. In Slovenia, no specialisation was granted until recently in the year despite the lack of specialists and specialists. With too few specialists, we will now introduce an unburdened burden. For example, already in the clinical centre, the specialists are charged over 300 hours a month and on average exceed the burden of colleagues in other countries. In the current situation, when there is a general shortage of doctors, it is possible to expect from the employer the burden that young doctors will no longer be able to bear. It's inhuman, because they're just people and not machines. Since the specialists are obviously understaffed, the country should set a limit to which they can be burdened, both for themselves and for the sake of the patients. But no. We're going to solve the health policy flaws on the back of young doctors. It should be borne in mind that this is extremely dangerous for patients, as most professional errors are made on duty due to fatigue. Membership in the European Union should mean a change for the better. Unfortunately, however, the adaptation of our legislation to Europe is seen by some as the search for legal loopholes in Europe. The easiest thing is just before parliamentary holidays, following a rapid procedure under the cover of adaptation to the directives of the European Union, to adopt a law that is opposed by healthcare workers. The letter from the Medical Chamber of Slovenia, the Health and Social Welfare Union is proof that I am not talking about the section of young doctors at the Slovenian Medical Society, from which the letter was, for information only, the Minister at the meeting of the Committee drew only the part of the letter that is responsible to him and the rest was silent. As long as such differences are between, on the one hand, the uncompromising Minister of Health and, on the other hand, thousands of health workers, until then, bad times have been written for our health care.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u84	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. He now has the word of colleague Podobnik, behind him colleague Kebrich. First of all, colleague Podobnik on behalf of the SLS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! We have a law before us to regulate how doctors should serve their citizens, as Mr Minister said in the introduction. Members are supposed to adopt by law solutions that will be good for our citizens and that will also be good for our doctors. We don't want to, I would say, as a group of Members to step on one side. The messenger is always on every side. If we had only a law before us, as proposed by the government, then we wouldn't support it. It is true, however, that, at the advice of the secretariat, there have been some improvements in the work of the parent working body led by colleague Brenčič and with the cooperation of the Ministry. We expect that the National Assembly, so to speak, will accept all the amendments of the Committee, including the three amendments of the government that have been sent to the bench today, is particularly important first. If that happens, we'll push a grey button for the law in the parliamentary group. Since it is now an opportunity to express a few general opinions on the law, only this would be the case. As we said quickly, the current coalition treaty does not say that these issues will be resolved. This means that obvious problems arose later than this coalition was formed, or these questions were raised later. Secondly, some of the legislation's solutions are linked to the implementation of the European Union directives and, of course, we support them, and some of the solutions are those that have come along. It is said that there are several other solutions to the so-called EU law. Some are very sensitive and they have caused such unrest mainly in Slovenian medicine. Thirdly - we are concerned that the way this law is adopted will further deepen the gap between the Slovenian state and the government and Slovenian medicine. That's what we're worried about. The country must be so wise that it is always in dialogue with the medical profession that it does not pour oil on fire. At the same time, it must be acknowledged that the Slovenian medical profession is well organised in the union and in professional associations and in the chambers, so Slovenian medicine is also looking for a dialogue with the authorities. This law is particularly the case when this dialogue was absolutely insufficient. On the basis of the law, the Slovenian Medical Chamber also has public powers. In this case, the Slovenian Medical Chamber is, in some ways, a co-proposer of the law, because it also has public powers in certain areas governed by this law, so it is called upon to propose amendments. If it does not agree with them, then the government must pull the manual brake and do not defeat them by voting in the National Assembly. Fourthly, the tendency to hyperintention. We solve everything too much with legal solutions. The issue of working time is one of those who are rightly asked whether they belong to the law. We are obsessed with the European approach, the Brussels approach and, of course, all the solutions that are in the directives or any other of our own, we write them down and offer them as laws when we solve certain problems. We think this is the wrong way. As a rule, it is a path that later gives birth to a new conflict when a solution needs to be refined and changed. In the parliamentary group, we were very sensitive to information or we listened very carefully to the Minister, who was very clear, very bold, determined, because he expects to have the majority he needs behind him. A large majority is also a responsibility. Most of themselves are not justice. And, of course, we would like to know, Mr Minister, if you would specifically answer the following question: the Chamber has cooperated with the law, but it did not agree with certain provisions. We would like to know what were the provisions that the Slovenian Medical Chamber disagreed with. I'm not talking about Fides, I'm talking about the Slovenian Medical Chamber, which is essentially a government partner in solving some of the issues. If the Chamber did not agree with some of the key solutions to the law, then we should be very careful to seek solutions in the context of the adoption of the law so that the Slovenian Medical Chamber does not have a negative relationship with them. However, I conclude with the conviction that the Medical Service Act can also be adopted in a way that will enable doctors to serve their citizens and that citizens will have greater respect for their doctors and doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u86	Thank you, colleague Podobnik, for the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group. And now colleague Ivan Kebrich, on behalf of DeSUS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Minister and co-workers! The Group is aware of the importance of this law as all the laws that come to us in the National Assembly for admission and confirmation. A particularly sensitive area is health care. I personally argue that I also have a certain view abroad that our health care and the expertise of medical personnel are above average with or with the European Union. This is one way or another, indirectly and also directly recognized by all of us. Unfortunately, I've had to depend too many times on medical attention, too many times in the hospital, so I hope to say that I know certain things. We discussed this in the parliamentary group, because I also participate in the Committee on Health, Family and Social Policy, we discussed in great depth all comments from the medical union and other discussers invited to the meetings or meetings of this Committee, the parent working body for this area. The truth is that, in recent times, doctors have been particularly well organized in the union. On the other hand, from experience - I am not embarrassed to say, although I am aware that these words and findings will offend many people, although I will probably still depend on a lot of people - it is that in previous times certain doctors have not even allowed younger ones to come or to train themselves professionally in the commissions, but are determined, forgive the expression, under the terms, "such and other privileges" which have benefited them or stimulated them materially, exercised and held their places. Now there is no problem yesterday, and neither can we solve it overnight, or tomorrow, or tomorrow, that doctors are overloaded to eat too little. We need to be aware that medical education and specialization require a certain period of time, but someone's going faster, someone's going slower. It is essential, however, that when any adult who discusses himself thinks and decides which profession he chooses, he is aware of the beautiful and even the less beautiful, not to say the difficult circumstances of the individual profession. I respect the medical code of ethics and all that, but we cannot, on the other hand, recognize it, but we hope that this law will bring a certain better organisation of working time, as we are often aware that doctors in one area have exceeded time in one service at the expense of another, who should have started long ago in the infirmary. I do not wish to delay, but these are our concerns that we will decide in the parliamentary group that we will vote in favour of the proposed proposal and we will support all those amendments that we have formulated in the home working body. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u88	Thank you, colleague Kebrich. These were the views of the groups of Members. Any other parliamentary group would like to present their position? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. I conclude this part of the debate. Would you like some more? Yeah. They're coming. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I have not received any written applications, so I am limiting the discussion of the following applicants to 5 minutes. He was the first to apply to the debate by his colleague Rudolf Moge. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u89	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! He spoke about the problem that this assembly had already discussed many times, including the adoption of a national higher education programme. I certainly agree with Mr Minister when he said that in Europe they have significantly more doctors than in Slovenia. It's the same thing, say, on some average residents, say 100,000. I will illustrate this to you with data and you will see that only Romania from Europe is the one that, if these data hold, here I have a booklet from the statistical office that has worse coverage with doctors than Slovenia. And if Slovenia has such poor coverage with doctors per 100,000 inhabitants, this has two consequences. First, if doctors want to work on the same standard on humans, they need much more time to do so. And doctors who have licenses are overloaded. The other thing is, if we want to help each other now, in our present state, there is nothing to show us but what Mr Minister has already mentioned several times that we will only hire foreigners and that we will at this moment, because there are no other solutions, then we will solve such a problem. Just a few details. See, doctors per 10,000 inhabitants: there are 22, in the European Union 39, in Austria 31, Belgium 41, Bulgaria 34, the Czech Republic 34, Denmark 28, Estonia 32, Finland 31, France 33, Greece 43, Croatia 24, Ireland 25, Italy 57, Latvia 32, Lithuania 38, Luxembourg 25, Hungary 36, Macedonia 22, Moldova 32, Germany 36, the Netherlands 32, Poland 23, Portugal 32, Romania as I said before, in the Russian Federation 42, Slovakia 32, Spain 33 and Ukraine 30. So, such a standard as we have with regard to coverage with doctors per capita, we can then compare ourselves with only one other country in the lower part of the scale. And because it seems to me that it also has a significant impact on the working hours of doctors - the number of doctors we have. And if there were more of them, maybe we could adopt better legislation, at least we could adopt one that would be more patient-friendly and therefore more quality and even more friendly to those who work in hospitals. That is why, Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a question, given what this National Assembly has already accepted in this regard, how this law will also affect the number of doctors, or what measures and methods you 'undertake' at the Ministry, in order to improve this catastrophic situation somewhere. Dear colleagues, the numbers are real. They're pointing to disaster. And as a Member, it seems to me that I am obliged, given that we have talked about this quite a number of times in this congregation, even in this law, to draw attention to this. And don't mind me saying that because there's a college in Maribor, that's how you use it. However, I must tell you that, in the bottom of my heart, the behavior of some leading people in the field of medical and general education, when people who tried to get help to establish another medical university, get help in the river, get help in Belgrade, get help in Zagreb, get help in Hungary, get help in Estonia, get help in Finland, get help in Austria, and get help in Slovenia - if you looked at the reports - there was no help from the rector and the dean of the Faculty of Medicine. And it seems to me that this debate may also help to increase the number of doctors. And if we have more doctors, especially home doctors, we will also be able to solve this problem of working time of a doctor through another optics than today when we are on the tail of development by the number of doctors per capita. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u90	Thank you, Mr. Mogue. I'm giving my word to my buddy Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u91	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, with this discussion before me, my colleague, Mr Mojet, I would like to ask the Minister how accurate and sustainable this information is. Because if they are, then, of course, our health care is in a rather critical state, at least as far as the performers are concerned, the most crucial, that is, doctors. Because by the number of beds, the area of the hospital will not be likely to be able to measure so much, we will have to measure more by how many doctors there are. Or does this suggest, then, that if we have a good medical condition, as we stifle in Europe, our doctors are extremely successful in doing so? So now I'm a little confused about what that would mean. Well, I would like to discuss something else: working hours or working hours in public service. I somehow understand the Minister's efforts to regulate the good organisation of the executive service, including in this way. It needs to be handled. This cannot be left to the market alone, in another way to limit excessive operation. However, since public service is a matter of different, diametric opposites and the principles of the implementation of this public service, it is necessary, by the State, to provide this operating time, in particular, in order to protect the interests of clients. You know, here we can still choke on how the social partners negotiated. The representatives themselves, and therefore the clients themselves do not have the right representative in the negotiations. In the negotiations, the country is the owner and in the negotiations there are associations, contractors and directly doctors and other staff, of whom we know what interest it has. The task of the State, in particular the Ministry, is to identify where imbalances arise, whose groups are weaker. That's a mission! And I believe that the weak side is a client, so there is a need for greater emphasis and a greater opportunity for them to have better services. Because customers cannot influence the performance of the quality of services through this market negotiation, except for private ones. That's why it's our duty. However, I wonder for myself whether it is the right way to put these regulatory mechanisms into law. The minister obviously likes this, but if something happens to turn something else around, he'll have to come back to the National Assembly after his term of office. We won't be jumping around this marriage all the time. I would therefore strongly recommend that this be regulated by such edicts, but by means of a sub-legislative act - if possible. Rather, let him consider what is worth putting into the law itself. Because this provision - not constitutionally - is non-problematic, but is also operational. So, I'm more inclined for the power of performers or for the power of customers and for the performers who have now shown real power to balance themselves with the customers. With regard to doctors, if that is the case, I would also ask Mr Mojet, or I would like to replicate him: as I know, he has been leading this education committee in Parliament for several years, and I do not know why he has failed, as far as the descriptions concerning the development of the professions of doctors are concerned, the number of what he has achieved - where this has stopped. Now, falling on the government or on those who have worked before, it probably makes sense - or asking them why we don't have a bigger enrollment, why we create an artificial lack of doctors. Is that what doctors themselves want so that they do not have competition? Is that the reason? I can do that. Is it just a slump of a ministry or a government not to deal with this problem? Or is it because he may see the possibility of increased spending there, and this is how it is done to save money? It is certainly not right to let go, but to use such forms of regulation of overtime in terms of negotiations, as instruments to shove such things into someone's back to make it harder to negotiate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u92	Thank you. I give my word to my colleague Grošl.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u93	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Allow me, Mr. Secretary, to greet you as well as your associates. Colleagues and colleagues! In this implementation, I will try to define myself in two areas, so I may have a slightly different discussion or, if I may say so, a discussion. In any case, I will not negate, as my predecessors, of course, did when they were discussing or representing the views of individual parliamentary groups. In particular, I'd like to look at two areas. It has been said that things in life are different as they are in the law and, of course, the law interferes deeply with the working conditions of doctors. The two findings found here could be analysed - through regular working hours. We have very clearly defined first to say that I will give a partial assessment at the primary level that I know more than, of course, on secondary or tertiary activities. [[...]] We have very nicely written that the working hours begin at 6.00 p.m. and that work will be done by 2.00 p.m. and that the working time is 6.30 p.m. to 13.30 p.m. Let us look into the truth in the eyes and see that it is completely different. There is no system of ordering doctors, we have not performed the so-called so-called so-called normalisation, I would say, through a system of specific methodology, of course, we would also define it. After all, what it means to have so many and so many patients treated by a doctor, if I can use that word, in this working time. It's rumored to be from 33 to 35 patients. Of course, of these patients, there are those who come for the recipe, those who come then only the smallest service, those who come for the guide, of course, to do their service - quick because I see time running extremely fast - to do their service in the laboratory work and - I will try to finish this first part - so this time ends between 9:30 and 10:00. At that time, the standard of 35 to 50 insured persons was already processed. This is a fact and it would be very difficult to say that it is different, because, after all, let us give a thorough analysis to do on all primary activities, and we will find very quickly that there is very much in this truth. If we say that it interferes deeply with the working conditions of the doctor, I do not know why this would be so difficult if we set working hours because, after all, I use the same words as Mr Minister, where he says that the profession is essentially also a doctor. Why, then, should we be afraid of it? And if this primary activity is to be done, what the doctor has to do eventually to his patient - of course, we will probably set up a significantly different situation. Those who are employed in the public health service and, of course, those who have concessions, and those who have private offices before. In fact, why? Because there are more and more who have the money. Of course, they will seek their services through concessions or through private offices. Because if I say one example from my congregation: you know, people go to the infirmary at five to wait for it to open, and so on, because it counts so many and so many patients, and then it ends. So I will be very happy to support these things. I could talk more about duty. It is also very right to decide what belongs to the so-called - what are effective and also ineffective hours. I say that these things happen, too, that those patients, observers who simply don't come that day, because the standard is already met, are also looking for their solutions in looking for a duty. However, since we belong to that statistical region, which is only used in some cases, but not in others, because of the fact that they do not meet 15,000 insurers, but in the region there are about 48 000 of us, it means that we have to pay our own on-call service - from the municipal budget. Now I will tell you this: for the year 2000, we paid about 3,500 a year, and for last year these costs have increased to 6,500, 6 million and a half a year, only because this on-call service does not carry out what the law would allow. Because time is running so fast, I'm afraid I have to finish. I also do not understand the debate by the gentleman or I will not speak on behalf of the group, because it was on behalf of the group, that the law determining how doctors would serve their citizens and that it would cause a gap between doctors and citizens - if I understood correctly. I can tell you that's not gonna happen. There will be no panic, but, I will say, even recently, it has been that we have come to a change and a supplement to the medical service law, which will settle certain matters as is the case with all our citizens. For someone who performs medical work, it is different, it requires both knowledge and for someone else who has to work - and I also conclude - on the current tape. However, if things do not go well, sometimes some things need to be regulated by law. That is why I will fully support the law and all the amendments that have been tabled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u94	Thank you. I would give the word to two more discussers, and then together we try to get answers to these questions. Mr. Gasparini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Nice greetings, Mr. Secretary and others, colleagues and colleagues! I've listened very carefully to the representatives of the parliamentary groups, and that's what doctors think. Well, Mr. Podobnik - I find it difficult to criticize because he is not here, but still - I don't think anything has really been defined to the content of the law, he was talking about a coalition contract. But I'm surprised Dr. Cuckoo comes with things like this that don't have a base in health care. Health care doesn't work the way you showed it, especially at the secondary level. Of course, it would be too long a story if we went in line now, like you said, but some things I'll tell you anyway. You say, duty. How duty can be divided into effective and ineffective. I ask you, which intern, which surgeon, which dermatologists on duty, all together, will unite to have the same paid duty? Not at all. We don't even have an intern who leads, like, an intensive coronary unit, who doesn't want to have the same paid duty as a surgeon. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] So do I. The surgeon thinks he works more effectively on duty than an intern. That's what I always said, and I got it from the chairman when I was younger -- he said, why did you go to the surgeons? It was all about money. Well, we have to, I think that's the right thing to do, to make something effective when you're working, and the other is when you're sleeping, say. That's it. But the last time I said it was an easier way to figure out, I mean, how to pay -- I mean, it's simple: the duty hours are paid by 10 tolars, by a dot. Either you're working or you're sleeping, it doesn't matter. That's not fair. It's also not fair to have a higher-a-vis pension policy. You know that effective hours are also going to our retirement age, and that is also considered a pension. So, don't tell me that all duty hours have to be paid the same. It can be. How practical this is – I don't know if I have to interpret it. It's easy to say that there are five effective hours of surgery, there are one at a derm, there are two at a pediatrician. They are still paid for 150 or 250% of the base item of the hour. The other hours are paid, 50% of the normal hours. So what we already have is actually in this law. The second thing I heard. Like, young people say, after 18 hours, he'll be working as a resident. Do you know what that means? There's an on-call. So, in one week, he'll be on duty after 16 hours, and he'll stay for, say, two more hours in surgery. We've always fought to get to the surgery, stayed at night, and no one paid us. Even today these specialists want as much as possible - we're talking about their industry - I mean, as a surgeon. Of course there's an operation, it's coming, it's working, and so on. And in the end, there's something else about working time. We doctors have always fought to have this arranged. And now that some marriage has arranged it for us to work for so many hours and so many hours, it's a cry and scream from the chamber, Fides, and I don't know who that can be in marriage! I agree with Mr. Petty Officer that this could be a submarital act. So be it. I agree! Even in a submarital act, it would be good to have him in. But we have him in our marriage and we keep him in our marriage. I don't mind if it's a submarital act, but let it be settled. We wanted to know exactly how much I was working. Probably Dr. Cukjat worked, not from 7:00 or 6:00 to 2 p.m., but until 3:00 p.m., until the ambulance was empty. And he didn't ask for someone to pay him overtime. That's what we used to have. Today, however, we want this, and doctors want it to be accurate. This can be arranged because the number of patients per hour is determined. And today it's settled. Well, I don't think it's anything new. It's just arranged in here. And that's what you have to stick to. Secondly - we have also heard from young people - that in fact, except that specialization is paid, that the specialist is "nothing". But it doesn't count here that we're actually teaching him. I think we should take that into account, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Now we have a replica first, Dr. Tuckyat, of the previous performance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u97	Thank you for your word. Mr. Mario, I'm sure the watch must be paid differently. That's what you know. I just wanted to say that it's not the job of this law to solve the problem of financing and paying on-call. For this there are other things: these are collective agreements, this is the employer's thing and so on. I think it's just this mistake that you want to solve some things where there's no place to solve these things. Effective, ineffective, that's exactly what was introduced just because of the "collecting" of a key where on-calls could be paid differently. But this is now against the law on employment relations. You probably need to figure out another key. That's perfectly clear. Then, Mr. Groschel, who's gone. I don't know what kind of conflict they have with work discipline with doctors in their place. But again: this law does not solve this problem. He's not saving! If the law says it doesn't start at 7:00, but 8:00, someone's gonna be able to do the same thing. That's not what this law solves. That is why this is a foolish approach, because there is another way to resolve these matters. And that's why I also said: the problem of working discipline in hospitals and again, the minister, as the founder of hospitals, is solving it with the law. This is exactly what the conflict is: a wrong approach. I believe in the intention that it's good, but such an approach, not only is it awkward, it's wrong, but it's going to concrete some things that can't be concrete. Some things that are alive, from place to place, from office to office, from time to time. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u98	Thanks for the replica. Now I have two more interviewers. First, Mr Jerovšek, then Dr. Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Minister, co-workers. Today's debate also confirms me in the belief that something is wrong within Slovenian health care, something also within the medical profession and this year's shocks have clearly shown this. I am thinking here of course of a medical statement which, in my opinion, has had some positive effects for all people who are users of health services; i.e., there has been a demystification of the medical profession. I claim that in some ways the doctors were the most protected in the public opinion of the Slovenes and that some gaps, some weaknesses in the organization of the medical service, the operation of doctors, have also been shown, and I expected that this law would show a significant improvement. Not only will it be to respond to European guidelines, but you will also write in your explanation what it is that brings, which improves, how it will be reflected in the reduction of waiting periods. When a person sees this suffering of patients, serious patients in the corridors of hospitals, health homes, he cannot imagine that it is impossible to improve the organization. And one of the reasons is that, Mr. Minister, you, during this year, during the duration of the medical sentence, have repeatedly acknowledged in public opinion that the medical profession has consciously obstructed the education of doctors; that you have sought to ensure that doctors have the possibility of additional work on duty and all of this - double employment. And for that reason, I am also surprised that we are legally setting up this complementary employment. We know that they have been able to do this under various contracts so far, and in some ways you're lawizing additional jobs here. I would like this to be more precise in order to determine what the basic obligation of a doctor in the primary employer to do there is, in my view, the basic 8 hours, but not that there is often a fall in supplementary employment at the same time. In fact, it is a public secret that some ambulances were carried out in the same work, that this work was covered up. And in this way, we won't get rid of the species in the waiting rooms. And I really want to know what it'll bring to the cut. And these information that Mr Moge has mentioned here is extremely disturbing. And all of these responses to how to solve this lack of doctors, how to improve all of this - what Mr Mohe said - are extremely worrying. I note that there is no willingness, in fact, to take this issue seriously, to close the profession here. And I don't know, I don't see any solutions from this law that would make it possible to improve the current situation. I also ask whether, in accordance with the European guidelines, it is complementary work, if you say there can be additional work for 8 hours, we are further over it, and then another complementary work - I think this with the European guidelines is at odds. I think it should be the tendency of the Ministry of Education to educate additional doctors as soon as possible to define what the basic work of doctors is, so that these functions are not covered. And in this way improve access to the doctor and thus reduce waiting types. And if you do so, doctors, patients, people will be most grateful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u100	Thank you. And Dr. Bernick, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, ladies and colleagues I always thought that medicine was a free profession, and as such, it had been counted for many years. Undoubtedly Slovenian medicine has great reputation and abilities. And you could say that this quality could be even higher if you weren't constantly in a coerced vest. I can't understand how the things that are in this bill come into law at all. These are trinkets, some of the little things that a market or a chamber or anyone should arrange, not a law. I also highly doubt that some of the proposals are based on the European model. I'm sure they're not. Because if a man reads these things, he would think we're going back to socialist medicine, regulating doctors, and we don't give patients any advantage. As someone mentioned, this will not shorten waiting periods, will not reduce the number of patients and so on. Here, of course, I would like to ask the Minister what actually happened to private practice. If we are really talking - and all the parties here in this House are talking - about a private or market economy and so on; of course, it also has dimensions and must be made a human market economy, but even in medicine it can be done very well. Leave more freedom, more initiative. And I think here our medicine could have blossomed even more than flowers. See, I would say this, that doctors should regulate themselves and some practices or practices and ways of how they practice, regulate themselves, and the state must stand by to see that they do not get monopolies or other exploits. Finally, let me say something else about the debate on the University of Maribor. Unfortunately, we have a profession in all areas, and what the profession says, no one should be touched because it is already almost blasphemous. It seems to me that this should be a free debate, a discussion, and also the people who will serve them in this university should be able to express their views. But since we do not do this, it will look like we are doing what some hillmen who do not know what is good for all Slovenian people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u102	Thank you. In the meantime, I have another application, Dr. Merlo, and then I will really give my word to the minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u103	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello, government representatives! Colleagues, colleagues! I have just listened, certainly, to Dr Bernick's last words: very broad, general words, which I think we may be putting more emphasis on somewhere in some of the towers, and in this area may not be enough, because I think that this private sector, when it begins to live somewhere, is somewhere on the start, is dead. I think that this part of health care - exactly what you said - could be somewhere an encouraging competitive option for a public, so-called public, sector in our country. Let me move from this to the more specific points that we have addressed today or that we will deal with and vote on. So, about this schedule that's supposed to be controversial around 8:00 a.m., I think that, as far as I'm concerned, which I'm still working on in practice, is this moving possible schedule that tabesed "right" mentions before 8:00 a.m., solves these problems that I think we're losing sometimes too much time with. I think that this management is given to the decision to do so itself, as is more fruitful for work in the institution concerned and perhaps more rational and similar. That's not an issue for me. However, I agree with Mr Drobnik that a number of things could be done later - even perhaps not too much with this health legislation to scale things up and put them in some kind of initiative and maybe with some sub-laws that they would later address, even what matters there. After all, as far as the work of the young is concerned. I must admit that I also support the intentions of young people, but the doctors are going somewhere along a path that means commitment and sacrifice somewhere. We can say that this sacrifice of our lives is quite often because we have decided to do so. And that means to a large extent giving up a private life, giving up a lot of things that others don't even know. When it comes to calculations, how many of our doctors "depart" in one life, these are years, I can tell you what prison in hospitals. So I hope that we understand that I support that, as Dr. Velina mentioned some month ago in the Saturday Annex, when he wrote that there can be no limit to young doctors in surgery because otherwise, what kind of surgeons are we going to have in this country? I mean, however we limit this absolutely for certain medical professions, because only with constant, continuous work will you get that confidence, training and practice that will reduce any mistakes. As far as effective and inefficient paying hours are concerned, I don't think we'll ever pay our doctor as much as he spends that time at work and as much as he does. So whatever we're going to put these items, they're going to fit one higher for this piece, one for the other, one a little higher than they have -- let's say -- in the world. We're going to set different rules with us, but I don't think we're going to do this perfectly for everyone. This way, I will support the current issues proposed by the government. However, I certainly think that in the following references we will probably fix this again, so I do not expect until the market tells itself, some essential miracles and ideal solutions for doctors. As far as the sentence is concerned, I think the responsibility that we have in this article alone - for me, that line would be quite enough, without "these are in particular" these things and so on, we are already rolling the matter there. In short, as soon as we say: The doctor has to triage so that nothing happens - we really had, like Dr. Tuckati said, this sentence, where luckily we had no problems to make something happen. But we know that the public is very critical of us now and that it is worth ensuring that such things do not happen. Well, time's up, so thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u104	Thank you, Comrade Merlo. Dr. Keber, Minister of Health, I now give you my word for the answers and explanations to the questions raised in the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u105	I understand, Mr President, that there is still a general debate that I am not expected to be in debt. Thank you for the opportunity to explain some things further. Of course, I can't answer all things, especially those that don't concern the law. For example, the debate on private practice in healthcare requires a long justification and you will experience it when we propose a change to the Health Act. However, I would like to say in general: this law, which came after a rapid procedure to Parliament with some solutions, is not responding and has no ambition to solve the fundamental key problems in Slovenian health. It answers some of the things that we think will make life easier for citizens and - I hope to say - for doctors who believe in these changes. Something about a number of doctors first. The number of doctors - dentists should also be included - is 26 and doctors themselves are 22, but comparisons with the world are very likely to involve dentists. Nevertheless, we are at the bottom of Europe, compared to the European Union, with Eastern Europe, because there are too many doctors in these countries elsewhere, but compared to the European Union, we are somewhere like Ireland, England and in all these countries, increasing the number of doctors. Well, we're definitely at the bottom of Europe. That's what we called it. That's what we knew. And the other thing is, not how many doctors we need, but what these doctors do. We have few doctors, but we do on some segments two to three times less than elsewhere in Europe. You have read a recent letter from cardiologists saying that there are two to three times fewer services in the field of the most demanding cardiology. This means: we're not just talking about doctors, we're talking about how many doctors do. And the question is, how much do we all give for health care together? I won't talk much from here on out, but let me say it. When you ask who is responsible for the small number of doctors, I will answer: despite the small number of doctors, this is 50 billion money for their salaries, that this year's sentence - after the confirmation of Fides - demanded 7 additional billion, according to our calculation 15 additional billion, and that if we had 50% more doctors than you say in the European Union, we would only be with doctors before the demand for a new 20 or 25 billion money. Let me say that without increasing employment in the healthcare system, or very minimal, wages in the entire health budget - we have already said many times - went from 50 to 60%, to over 60%, and that the money for healthcare services for citizens has been reduced by 25% in the last five years. These are the facts. When and when we are in front of you with proposals on new sources and these new sources, of course, we may, perhaps not, talk about new jobs and even waiting periods and more services, then of course you will be ahead of the new task, perhaps someone will say: why do we have so many doctors. Third thing. Doctor's burden. Labour burdens are generally a trend in the world, reducing working time. But let me tell you where they are right now in the out-of-European countries. The United States, which has the most medical complaints, has recently adopted a provision that a doctor should not be burdened for more than 80 hours a week. Let us forget about the United States, although often, when it comes to other reasons, other qualities are less often referred to. Europe, too, cannot provide only 8 hours. It has therefore established a transitional period. That's why we went to this transitional period. And let me just repeat that with the amendments that are before you and which are also proposed by young people, we have eliminated that ambiguity in order to interpret our basic proposal so that the youngest doctors, the specialists, can be burdened with whatever they want, although it is true that young doctors, not only do we think that it is right that they work more because of training, but also require themselves - and not just us, even in the world - more work. But, yes, I agree with the restriction. Third or fourth thing. Look, in working hours, I don't really know what's the worst, that we've actually highlighted almost every proposal as if we've had a fight with all the doctors. It's a shame we told you to start work at 8:00 a.m. When this new country was established in 1991, it was one of my first sentences - and I wasn't the only - "Well, I hope we're going very fast now" - then we said - "in European working hours, people won't get up at five o'clock, at four o'clock in the morning, travel to some infirmary, piled up in front of the ambulances at half past seven." We heard the description today, clearly they're coming, Dr. Knockout, in the morning, when nobody's here this afternoon. And in this marriage, we gave one fifth of the working hours after four o'clock in the afternoon. We open up what our citizens - today they no longer want to go to a doctor this morning. That's clear. They don't want to have a day off, a sick day. They want to go this afternoon. And we have opened up, not for the first time - let me point out that in practice, by the health insurance agency, this has already been established, only that we have set this definition. The story of effective and ineffective hours is nicely said, funny. The argument that a worker may not work for a machine is still paid is different. A worker in the morning, this is regular working hours, and it is responsible for the organisation of work. However, we have just defined in this law that the duty of duty is not that; the duty of duty is not full. You can't work ten hours on duty at night, because that's clear to everyone. You can't wake patients to work. This means that it is ready and has a second price and, of course, it is in line with what they are doing elsewhere in Europe. The position of the Chamber - reply to Mr Podobnik. The Chamber agreed, of course, with the payment of the specialists, agreed with the titles, did not agree with the working hours and did not agree with the provisions on the sentence, referring to the fact that the working time provisions did not comply with the legislation on working relationships recently adopted. I can briefly repeat that I would not speak to anyone individually. We are in agreement with the drafters of this law, the Ministry of Labour, that it is still so coordinated, that it is possible and that sectoral legislation has priority over the labour law if certain conditions are to be governed by it itself, and medical work needs to be specifically regulated by these working conditions. The future for me to answer in part, because Member Moz has some ideas for possible solutions on the number of doctors he knows. It knows exactly that the number of doctors cannot be given within one year, that it takes a study to do so, that we need an increased enrollment, that this will result in a proper number of doctors in ten or twenty years and that we are preparing for it. Of course, there is a great question why medical care is not everything at all - because this is what we hear: all doctors are against when we ask individuals have different opinions. For example, in this case: would you hire a doctor from elsewhere, at least to the extent that we solve the key problems that have been discussed at this time. And it is very interesting that at one point we say: we are not getting too much out of work, 60, 65 hours is too much; when we propose solutions to new employment, some - not all of us again, do not want to generalise - resist the proposal that is ahead of us. And, among other things, with some legal solutions here, we are simply trying to answer this question, which we were unable to resolve in a union way and in an agreement for ten, eleven years. That's my answer. About working time, about starting work, we've been talking about the end of work for ten years. I'm personally in different jobs. And even now, various directors and employers have told me that this cannot be solved differently than by law. An example of a reaction in the clinical centre when different working hours were introduced as employers themselves is a clear picture. Two more details. First review, Dr. Tuckati, I'd like to repeat. The first review is envisaged to the extent that it is excluded. It does not say the same day, writes: without waiting time to rule out the possibility, this can be ruled out by a doctor on the phone, but undoubtedly requires contact with a patient with a doctor. Not with a sister who says, "We bet, come in 14 days." And that's what every doctor who says is doing today. We don't write, not everyone. Most of them. We wrote it down for everyone to do it. The same is true - but you know, we didn't write: the finding has to be examined. We said hemorrhage. If the doctor thinks it's a find, he'll say, "I'm not going to continue my examination." If he's good enough, he'll say on the phone: you have a cold or a cold. But maybe he'll say, "Call me back tomorrow because there may be no chance." However, if it is left to the patient to diagnose for himself that his fever is an accident, it is wrong. Because even if it is a flu, it can be fatal in a certain percentage. And for that reason, I think that warning him that a doctor should simply always be aware that a certain condition can get worse, should also be guided by a sentence. If you're saying there weren't any of these events at two sentences, I won't object. I leave it to you whether such an event eventually dies every day and worsens so many and so many conditions. People die every day. Or in fact at any of these events, at least theoretically, I leave the absence of medical care to each of you. After all, we can come to the point that even at the time of the sentence, and even if it had lasted a year, nothing would have happened because we are doing everything and simply statistically it can no longer hold. This means - not wanting to stigmatize the profession to which I belong - I can express fear; at the time of the sentence, the medical sentence, it can result from the deterioration. If it comes to them, we're not teamed to record these cases. For example, when individual errors are dealt with in a non-itemal time and we do not get an answer to them, it is only clear that we have not teamed up properly in order to respond reasonably and honestly to questions as to whether there is guilt or if there is a logical process called a patient’s disease. Finally, I would say: medical autonomy is not an autonomy of working time, medical autonomy of income, medical autonomy of negotiating to decide that the on-call hour is the same as overtime. Medical autonomy is a free profession. Freedom of profession that can't dictate to politics how to heal, why to heal, who to treat, why not treat someone. That's autonomy. And that's autonomy in science. But the abuse of the word autonomy, that - for example - the doctor is fully, in every respect, in payment, in relation to society autonomous and free, of course, and I cannot accept this difficulty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u106	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. We have another motion for discussion. Mr. Victory Jelinčič, I give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Mr Minister, I would point out only one point in article 41b in the first paragraph, which states that "work over full-time must not exceed an average of eight hours per week". I think it would make sense to add the word "rules" here. Why? In the case of elementary accidents, floods, floods, fires, earthquakes and the like, we cannot limit this to a maximum of eight hours per week over full working time, but in that case it requires urgent and immediate action and continuous action. Therefore, I think it would make sense to insert the word “right” in there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u108	Thank you. Answer, Mr. Secretary. Please, if you'll join us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u109	It's been set for an average of six months. This means that if exceptional events occur, the doctor can work much more, but on average six months on average he writes in the second paragraph. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u110	Another replica, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u111	Despite this explanation, I still think it makes sense. If we take severe natural disasters, we have fortunately not had such disasters in Slovenia, but if we take them somewhere in other parts of the world, I would never want that to happen. However, it makes sense that we do not lose out on one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u112	Thank you. And Mr. Merlo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u113	It's basically a replica of the minister's performance. I would just add something to it that we're talking today about a lack of doctors, which we all agree on. However, a larger number of doctors, he said, and I think it is necessary to stress that he is also carrying more needed money. I'm more concerned about my current age. The average age of a Slovenian doctor today is over 50 years. That is also how I understand my colleague, Mr Mojet, who pointed to this problem. I think that we will have to solve this problem in the near future, that we have time to have an acute shortage probably, as the Minister has already said, without any smaller imports, which obviously no one is most excited about in this country, will still not work. However, I certainly think that it may be up to us in these two years and a half to the end of this call by Parliament to press on all those responsible to consider what are the key points for correcting this situation. I don't think it's too late, but we need to wake up today, right now. But I'd just like to mention how this money is in health care today. We talked more about primary health options, waiting schedules, mornings and so on, and a little less about what is going on in Slovenian hospitals today and how we are talking about incompetent management in Slovenian hospitals and so on. It should be borne in mind that this management has the resources available and must also work for these funds. What's going on over this job is then they're picking up incompetence because it's creating a minus and so on. But most of all, it's surgical. Let me also mention this article, let's say we do fewer of these and other surgeries in the field of cardiosurgery or traumatology, gynaecology and the like, there are limited resources. The problem at present is that perhaps our health care in all areas could also do a little more with these existing staff, but minus. Of course, this is not allowed to our management, which is understandable on the other hand. These questions, which we may have opened now with these few indents to receive, are more complex and I think we would probably need months to come to some conclusions here at least in part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr. Mogue, do you want a replica or something? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u115	To the Minister's performance. So that my numbers wouldn't look -- because I'll be very short, even before I was -- attracted to your hair, to complement you. Then 22 doctors, and if you take, round, 6 dentists as it comes in, and if you give 4 pharmacists to count all this, then it's only 32 - those data are clean - and in Europe, 39 averages. And I am very pleased that the Minister has said that there is a great shortage of doctors, which means that because we cannot quickly educate them, this will mean imports from somewhere else, and we will probably meet with a law in this National Assembly sooner or later that will help these doctors who will come to our aid as imported doctors, with some law to enable them to even work in our healthcare system or what qualifications they must have. Until then, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministry would like to ask you to pour us some pure wine here and to tell us in this situation where we are, how you are going to do this in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. Mogue. Mr. Secretary of State, would you like to answer my colleague Mojet's discussion? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u117	No, I didn't answer. I think it's time for the general debate to end. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u118	That's for me to decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u119	Perhaps all the questions that have been raised will, of course, be answered at some other time. I think that everything that is essential about this law in this general debate has been said.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u120	Thank you very much. I find that no one wants to discuss any more, so I am concluding the general debate. We are moving on to a second reading of the law, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles and a proposal for a law. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are moving to a vote on this proposal. We're voting, please. There must be more of us in the hall. I'll repeat the vote. We'll vote next time. We'll vote next time. Ten minutes' rest. We'll resume the session at 6 p.m. and 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u121	I'm continuing this session after this brief interruption. Can you please take your seats and we will decide on the proposed procedural decision next time? Excuse me, third time. We will vote for the third time on the proposed procedural decision. May I have your attention, please? This is the third time we've voted. There are 55 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments, that is, on 9.7., then on the two amendments of the Youth Party, also on 9.7. and on the amendment of the Government, as well as on 9.7. In order to discuss and decide, I am making an amendment to the new Article 1. The proposer shall be the committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to Article 1. The proposer shall be the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 47 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] We will decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] Article 1 is adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making for a new Article 1. The proposer shall be the committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 42 votes against none. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the new Article 1a has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 2 and the amendments to this Article. We have an amendment to the government and three amendments to the committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Excuse me, Mr. Cuckoo. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u122	Thank you for your word. Article 2 speaks of working time. First, on working time in the basic proposal, which should not have started before 8 a.m. In the amendment, as has already been said, this provision is somewhat popular. However, he goes on to talk about technologically difficult procedures and again tries to mention some exceptions, where it may otherwise begin to work. For the first time, I would like to mention the current practice, which the Minister knows well, although because of the non-discipline of some institutions, he does not always bear the desired fruit. The working time shall be determined each year on a new basis, or at the time of coordination or negotiation of contracts between health operators, where hospital directors, health centres and the like are mainly present. The second partner is the Health Insurance Office, which is a representative of the interests of patients, and the third is, of course, the Ministry. These three partners set each year not only the number of mandatory hours that the health care service must provide to patients, but also the schedule of work or working hours, which is then expressed specifically in each individual contract between the healthcare institution and the hospital. This working time is so well defined that, in fact, the health insurance institution can also carry out monitoring of the respect for this working time. As Mr Grošelj said or indicated some signs, according to his household, of "shampariya" and of working non-discipline, then, of course, he is obliged by such a responsible observer to report this to the health insurance institution [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u123	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u124	which carries out the control and also duly sanctions the operator. [[...]] I think these mechanisms are well-run, perhaps somewhat underexploited, and now I ask myself or the proposer whether this mechanism rejects and establishes a different, new one. What has been the mistake of practice so far? That's the first one. Secondly, Article 41b states that full-time work may be carried out for a period of 8 hours per week, of course, that is not on-call service, that overtime is something completely different, and how, then, in the third paragraph, the applicant may provide for unlimited overtime, indicating that, in the case of written consent of the doctor, the work may exceed the limit set out in paragraph 1 of this Article. This is said to be at the very beginning to reject the provisions of the Labour Relations Act, and this dictatorship allows for the unswerving performance of overtime, which is of course not the intention of the Labour Relations Act. [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr President, shall I wait? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u125	Please allow the debater a normal performance, and let him calm down, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u126	I therefore reiterate that, in fact, all these amendments, even if corrected in individual less important provisions, are unacceptable to the whole concept of healthcare management.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u127	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. I give my word to the Minister for Explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u128	In the first comment, honourable Member, I would say that this article or this paragraph speaks of capacity utilisation if the programme is large enough. The arrangements between the partners you quoted say a certain amount of the program. Here and there, due to the insufficient amount of the programme, some capacities are not even occupied in the morning. We have an increasing number of empty hospital rooms, not to mention everything else that's going on in the pediatric wards and so on. So, in this agreement, it is not possible to predict that the program is so large here and there and that there is another answer, czech, build us some new operating halls if you want to complete the program. Example: The clinical centre did not perform 50 heart surgeries, although money was provided for this. Answer: Not enough operating rooms. But that's not true, because the O.R.s have been used in us much less than anywhere in the world, less than eight hours. And what we are saying here is precisely this: it is possible to make better use of space or equipment, especially in the case of expensive equipment, and this must take precedence over new investments in new operating rooms. This is this sentence, so I don't think it's covered in negotiation and it's complementary to what you mentioned yourself. Secondly, allow me to repeat myself. A doctor or any worker has the right to demand that he is not charged for more than 8 hours, that is his right. This will also be provided to doctors by 2011. Allow me to disagree with you, and in these eight hours, duty is also on duty. There's an eight-hour watch, too. However, if that is what the worker wants or if the employer asks him, this is the case that Member Jelinčič said on the second occasion, if the employer asks him whether he is willing to work for more than eight hours, it is possible to agree on that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u129	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Sugar has a definite replica of it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u130	With regard to working time or capacity utilisation, I think that if there are capacities for equipment of premises, equipment, personnel that, say, the clinical centre does not use them, it means that the management of the clinical centre is poor. And the manager's "slamparium" can't be solved by law. I am still convinced that this is the wrong approach and if the economic mechanisms, the funding mechanisms are regulated, then certainly with a good manager, such capacities could be used as we would like and as we would like to in fact benefit patients. Surely I cannot avoid here saying again that the management of an institution, a hospital, is, of course, also a responsibility to the founder.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u131	Thank you, no one wants to discuss it anymore, so we'll move on to a decision. First, I will put to the vote the Government's amendment with an explanation, if adopted, the amendment under the second point, previously written in the text, in the review under the first item of the Committee, is irrelevant. We're moving on to decision-making. We vote on the amendment of the government. We're in the middle of a vote. There are 49 of us present, 36 votes against 10. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] The amendment of the government has been adopted. Procedural?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u132	Mr President, thank you for your word. However, I would ask why you think that the amendment under number 1 to Article 2 is irrelevant in the review of the amendments. I believe that these are two amendments that go to completely different paragraphs. The amendment that we have just adopted is the fourth paragraph, while the amendment that is supposed to be irrelevant is not, in my opinion, the first, second and seventh paragraphs. I believe that there is also a need to vote on this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u133	Thank you for your explanation. Just a minute. I'm sorry, it wasn't real information. We will also vote on the amendment of the Committee, which is set out in point 1. We're voting. There are 48 of us present. 41 votes against 2. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment of the Committee under number 1 in its review was adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment contained in the review under number 2. I'm opening a debate. We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still have the amendment under point three of the review. It's an amendment to the board. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on the whole article. Let's vote on the whole article! There are 46 of us present. It's 42 votes against 2. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 3 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! Mr. Cuckoo, I didn't notice you before. I'm sorry. You want a debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u134	The problem of effective and inefficient working time. The explanation and text of the proposal itself, or the text of the proposal, makes it clear that there is also an ineffective time of presence in the workplace. So it can be understood, and so I also do not know how to imagine the on-call service that you separate, carrying out the on-call service that you separate between effectively and ineffectively. Also ineffective is the presence in the workplace. Article 141 of the Labour Relations Act states: “Working time is an effective working time and rest time” and so on. Second paragraph: “Effective working time is every time a worker works, which means that he is available to the employer and meets his employment obligations under the employment contract.” Under the Labour Relations Act, effective working time is every time a worker works. After that, the time in which the worker works is legalized, the time in which the employer is available. This will be the first thing that falls in the Constitutional Court. I am surprised that this is how a division of presence at work can be designed in contravention of the Labour Relations Act. I reiterate that the urgency, to make some key to the different counting of the duty on duty, is inadequate. That's another problem. But it is also ineffective to work hours, there is also a time of work or presence in the workplace where the worker is available to the employer. I would like to ask that we seriously consider this issue and that our secretariat also gives its opinion on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u135	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. I'll give my word to the Minister first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u136	I will take this opportunity to justify why the concept of watchkeeping should still have been brought into law; what half an hour or one hour ago we have heard that it is possible to do so in both sub-laws or collective agreements. This law says that duty is a special form of work, not work, but a special form of work. Defining precisely through effective and inefficient work, i.e. from the presence and performance of work obligations. This Labour Relations Act explicitly allows for this form to be specifically permitted by sectoral laws. However, I will not at all reopen the debate to the effect that night duty is not meant to carry out concrete work duties. That is why I think we have a legal and, of course, sound base, that we claim that this is not the opposite and that this is a meaningful arrangement. However, it proves that it is necessary to define that there are no later attempts at different interpretations that lead everything in the same direction - let me repeat - leading to this being paid as overtime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u137	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Anyone else want a word? Representative of the Secretariat, would you like to provide an explanation because you were invited? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u138	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. It must be said that, in fact, Article 2 of the Labour Relations Act nevertheless allows for - but now I will reduce - examples of areas in which public services are carried out, a different regime. However, it is also necessary to consider some questions as to whether it is a matter of willingness or a matter of duty. In this respect, it is also necessary to apply Article 7 which translates or implements and allows exceptions to certain issues at the level of collective agreements. Thus, we have said in one way or another that in order to regulate working time, these provisions should in fact be dealt with. We gave some basic warning. However, in view of these provisions, in particular the possibility of negotiating more precise arrangements with collective agreements, we have not been able to provide an indisputable guarantee in one direction or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Can we go to a decision? Amendments to Article 3. Let's vote! There are 48 of us here. There's 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the amendment to Article 3 has been adopted. And we are now voting on Article 3 as a whole. Let's vote on Article 3 in full! There are 50 of us present. 41 votes against 3. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that Article 3 has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article, which has been tabled by the Committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. It was 45 votes against no one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted and Article 4 has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 5 and the two amendments of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. First, under point 1. Let's vote! There are 52 of us present. 45 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under point 1 has been adopted. I am making an amendment under point 2. Let's vote! There's 53 of us here. It's 46 votes against 2. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment under point 2 has been adopted. We are now voting on Article 5 as a whole. Let's vote! There are 51 of us present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 5 has been adopted. I shall put Article 6 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article into discussion and decision. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u140	Thank you for your word. This Article now amends Article 46, which defines what the doctor is obliged to do during the sentence. Obviously, since the Members have not deepened into the current dictatorship, I would read it again. “Doctor is obliged to perform those medical services at the time of the sentence” which are, of course, referred to in Article 4, “which would soon lead to irreparable severe health or death damage, all medical services for patients under the age of 18 and over the age of 65, and all medical services related to pregnancy and childbirth.” Over the years, this has proved to be a very appropriate diction, as an excellently defined framework for the conditions to be considered by the doctor, so defined that the doctor had to make sure that the condition stated by the patient falls within this framework of the line. Only then could he decide to temporarily refuse or immediately accept the patient. Such a wide-ranging dictatorship is in force in Europe. I pointed out that when we prepared the medical service law, or all the medical profession, this article also dealt very thoroughly with and found that only so wide and not so far as to place a defined taxive area could bind and more commit to a doctor than taxively listed things that, of course, could say that certain things are much more dangerous than feverish conditions, such as stroke, asthma attack, shock due to allergies and the like. We could make a hundred pages of a list of such diagnostics as the Minister with one single point and thereby do some damage to this fundamental definition. That is why we propose to reject the article itself. The proposed amendment or supplement does not have any substantive positive role, such as other emergency medical care services or emergency medical care, etc. The applicant's explanation of the obligation to carry out all the initial checks without waiting period is also inadequate, although the rounding does contain a triage review, but what is a triage review is not defined anywhere in the law. Again, I would say, the introduction of a new concept and it is not clearly defined, is not defined which areas are those which must respect this provision. I mean, if such a law, if such provisions are adopted without a medical consensus, they will already be very difficult to implement from this title. And secondly, if such provisions are adopted so flatly, vaguely, indeterminately, and want to be more committed to all medical care, to all health care areas, including the dermatology mentioned above, then the effect is poor. The provisions must be limited to those really urgent areas, and only then will they have an effect. If everything is required, nothing can be achieved. I don't know, it is in my interest that, despite all of this, the law would be better to serve its purpose better, and therefore I propose that we do not accept this article.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u141	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. Anybody want an explanation? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u142	Although I think I am before, but I will take advantage of this opportunity, let me ask Commissioner Tsukjati: Are we in this House trying to facilitate a medical sentence and increase the number of things that the doctor will not do to be able to communicate with the country with his patient or on their backs? And I will specifically ask: Will the doctor or will he not treat a broken arm or leg? This is not a condition that leads to or is questionable where it leads. Or, say, a little bit of a break. That's the first thing. I think we're here to protect the patients. I'm glad that most doctors, but obviously not Dr. Tuckati, think the first one was the real one. We just wrote exactly and let me say, we didn't write a very narrow list. It's a danger. When you start counting, you can miss something. But I mentioned that the fourth indent covers or eliminates this danger. This indent says “other emergency medical services”. The first three indents, often cited by Member Tsukjat, were listed precisely because they were the subject of rejection or could have been denied aid when the patient found it at the time of the patient's strike. Therefore, my question is: Is it possible to reject the fever of a child on the phone “come in 14 days”, that is what I would like to ask the doctor of Tsukjati and the Ambassador of Tsukjati whether or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u143	Thank you. I know you have the replicas, so I'll give you my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u144	Since I was asked, of course, the fever should not be rejected, for in the previous dictatorship it is said: “By the age of 18 all cases of a patient must be dealt with.”
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u145	Thank you. I give my word to my colleague Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u146	Thank you very much. This provision is one of those which, in my view, medical associations will not talk much about. It will, however, undoubtedly lead to an increase in the gap between the government, between the state and the medical profession. I want to know what the reaction will be to this provision in the fall. I remember some of the solutions in the past mandates of the National Assembly, when you told me fellow Members, I remember the case of police officers, and some other professional groups, when you always said, with any special sensitivity, it is necessary to show political power in any way when you actually squeeze someone against the wall and disable them where they are most powerful, than someone who has organised themselves in a trade union sense. And that's the provision. Willingly or unwillingly, that is a provision. I fear that this provision will unnecessarily motivate political and professional matters in Slovenian medicine and that the reaction will be wrong. This provision is not European, it is unnecessary. No guidance is required. Finally, experience - in fact, this provision assumes that we will be looking again soon through the doctor's sentence, so I think it's an unwise decision by the applicants to insist on it. Even if we don't have it, we have a legal provision in force. It would be much better, Minister, to withdraw from your arguments and not accept this article, for the good of the law and for the good of the relations between patients and medical care in Slovenian society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u147	Thank you, Comrade Podobnik. Mr. Secretary, I give you my word again.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u148	I would like to reiterate that this is not about our arrogant treatment of doctors, especially because we have heard from those who oppose this article that all these doctors are doing - so we have described. Secondly, let me repeat the opinion that I have given, doctors in the vast majority of countries do not strike - not because it is so well cared for, but because doctors, like some other professions, are, after all, judges, Members, university teachers, so high in the hierarchy of society that they come to their interests without articulating them with the help of a sentence. That the profession we gave him in five years is already questionable, but from the point of view of human rights is permissible. But now we are talking, or on behalf of citizens, we can write rules on what doctors will have to do on this, yes, in this sensitive area despite the sentence. We're trying to determine if we've narrowed them down a little bit or maybe even a little bit. Allow me to say, as a citizen who will seek the help of a doctor, I think what is written here is necessary for a doctor to work, even when he strikes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Can we go to a decision? And Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Article 46 of the current law is, in fact, acceptable and also deals with issues further addressed by the amendment of this law: "Doctor is obliged at the time of the sentence to perform those medical services whose abandonment would in short time lead to irreparable..." and so on and so on. But when we talk about those cases where abandonment could be a certain irreparable health disorder, we are talking about vaguely defined cases. And if the Minister of Health had previously talked about protecting patients with the correction of Article 46, I would add that we will also protect the doctor in some way, because we will close that field of interpretation that may remain open and, last but not least, related to the fairly subjective judgement of the doctor himself. Symptoms may be such, but in contact with and with verification and direct examination they may also lead to different findings than they could only be when they were first checked without contact in a direct inspection. I advocate the view that it is better to clarify things, not only for the patient's sake, but also for the doctor's. In fact, Article 46, which corrects Article 46, removes those doubts which the present law leaves wide open. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u151	Thank you for your discussion. I don't see the desire for a debate anymore, so we're going to make a decision. I therefore make the amendment of the Committee to Article 6 for discussion and decision. We're voting. There are 49 of us present, 38 votes against 9. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The amendment was accepted. We will now vote on the whole article. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 34 votes against 14. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against the 14th.]] The Article has been adopted. In order to discuss and decide, I shall put Article 7 and the amendment to this Article in order to delete the article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, 42 in favour, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The amendment has been adopted, article line. I am making an amendment to the debate and decision for a new Article 7. It's an amendment to the board. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, 43 votes in favour, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The new Article 7 a/ is adopted. I shall put Article 8 and the amendment of the Committee to Article 8 for discussion and decision. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. We weren't careful enough. We will vote again. We'll vote next time. There are 47 of us present, 44 votes against none. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. I shall put Article 9 and the amendments to this Article into discussion and decision. We have an amendment to the government, two amendments to the Youth Party's Parliamentary Group and an amendment to the Committee. I give my word to Mr. Stemberger. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u152	Thank you. Given that the contents of the amendment that I have tabled on my behalf are not two amendments to the Group of Members, one is mine, one is a Group of Members. Given that the content of this amendment, which I have tabled myself, is somehow covered in the amendment of the government, which we have recently received on the bench, I am withdrawing my amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u153	Thank you very much. So the amendment signed by Igor Štemberger has been withdrawn. Anybody want a word? Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u154	81.a This article, of course, refers to a work obligation which is very strangely designed and reasoned, on average 15 hours a week, except for 25 hours a week, on average, this is the only change, not one year, but a shorter period. However, it is said that even after 25 hours a week, if the employer was unable to hire a new doctor, he could do so. Your Honor, we have cases in Styria where after three or four years, the employer doesn't get a doctor. In this case, can you, on average, all this time, on average 25 hours a week, know what this means, can the employer be burdened and requires this work obligation from the doctor? Could you ask the police to do that? Could you ask a fireman to do that? Yeah, where's the work rights? If the employer is unable to obtain a new doctor in such a time, let him arrange an apartment for him to import from Albania, let him do something else. Just do not place managerial inability on the shoulders of a doctor’s work. This is totally contrary to the Labour Relations Act, and I also stress, with the Council of Europe directives. Directive 93/104 clearly states that it is possible to burden a doctor 48 hours a week. That's what it says, eight grand tops. Directive 2000/34, then, is to ease this provision or to say that it can only place a slightly more burden on specialists. However, in article 81a, we have laid down this not for specialists, but for all doctors, for all physicians. Even those who have families, including those who are 60 years old, unless the Minister authorizes them to grant an exemption after 50 years of age. Surely this case will be heard in the Constitutional Court, certainly also in the European Union. We've never seen anything like it anywhere in Europe. Something else is that the doctor is willing to accept such an obligation himself, but he does not speak here about the conditions under which a doctor’s overtime may be imposed or approved. The doctor is practically obliged to work 25 hours a week, gentlemen, more than working hours, 65 hours a week, continuously for a year. On average, four months means that he can work for four months, not 25 overtime, but 50 overtime, and then for the next four months he can only do regular work. Or, in other words, he can spend four months in addition to regular work for another 75 hours per week of overtime, and then, of course, that quota for the whole year of separation. I think this story is going to end sadly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. Tuckyat. Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u156	First of all, I would like to reiterate that this number of hours, which now appears to be terrifying, has been a recent practice in the country, but, of course, the average is still far from valid. And I can't imagine that, in the current circumstances, when the average burden of doctors, especially in basic health care, and he indicated a problem from basic health, from a region where they can't hire a doctor, there were burdens, I think 11 hours, or even 9 hours a week, that means almost now equivalent, of course at country level, Europe. It is true, however, that for a week, for a month, especially when we have been discussing the lack of doctors for a long time today, in particular, forgive when some medical organizations may not want to import a doctor from abroad with the help of someone from Parliament, but still come and even are rewarded as the best doctors in Slovenia. So during this time, it can happen that a few weeks will actually be a question of how to cover the duty. It is true, however, that this is very hypothetical because it is not one doctor because we have a medical network because we have a healthcare home or a health care home and still, even in the region, a larger number of doctors share this responsibility. So the problem is very hypothetical, very remarkable, and it will never last that long. And by the way, in this case, other measures will also follow. That's why we wrote just to cover the first week and the second week and actually cover what would otherwise have been done illegally. By the way, these excesses are also allowed by the European Union, but only for the youngest doctors. From the point of view of the burden, a person is a person and whether you are 25 years old or 35 years old, in short, whether you are a speciaisant or a specialist, does not mean much from this point of view. It only reveals that in Europe, because they have more doctors, they have made slightly different priorities. Let me point out, even for us doctors this applies only until 2004. And if we are talking about lack in the same breath, and at the same time bravely do not say that we have to anticipate measures in the meantime, then we will do nothing. At the same time, I think your objection, Member Tsukati, just reminds us all that we must quickly employ at least so many doctors that we will be able to meet the condition given by this law by 2004.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-07-09-SDZ3-Izredna-21.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. I'm closing the debate on the amendments. I am putting to the vote first the amendment of the government, explaining, if adopted, the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party and the amendment of the Committee become irrelevant. We decide on the amendment of the government. We're voting. There are 48 in attendance, and 39.6 in favour. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the amendment of the government has been adopted; this has made the two remaining irrelevant. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 47 of us present, in favour of 42 votes against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that Article 9 has been adopted. In the review of the amendments, pardon, in the proposals of the amendments of the government, we still have an amendment to Article 10. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 46 of us present, 40 votes against 3. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We still vote on Article 10 as a whole. We're voting. We weren't successful. This is the last vote on the amendments, please, if we are paying attention. We'll decide again. This is the second time we have voted on Article 10 as a whole. I'm breaking up the second item of the agenda. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. Just one more notice. The President of the National Assembly invites us to room 217, heads of the parliamentary groups, to continue the consultation. President Quiaz is also invited, as agreed, and President of the Business Commission. Thank you very much.
