ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, good afternoon! I begin the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend this morning's meeting: Franz Kangler, Roman Jakič, Marko Diaci, Leopold Kremjar, Jelko Kacin for the morning part of the session, Franz Čebulj, Franz Pukšič, Jože Ašič, Matjaž Švagan for the beginning of the session and Yuri Malovrej for the beginning of the session. Please insert the cards to determine the presence in the hall. Please, the quorum. There are more than 43 of us in the hall, so we have some problems again. Ladies and gentlemen, please see if you've put your cards in. We're picking up a presence at the hall, another time. The Quorum. I note that there are 56 Members and Members present, the assembly is concluded and may decide. Today's meeting is attended by representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, whom I welcome very much - Minister and Madam Secretary of State. Yesterday, we broke treatment three. Agenda items, this is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. We will continue with this today and then process the remaining issues concerning local self-government. Yesterday, as I said before, we broke up and yesterday, according to my list, Mr Tanko, Mrs Zupanova and Mrs Shirca remained. We're at the 14th, just in case. Mr. Tanko wants a word. Would you like a word, Mr. Tanko?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Yesterday we discussed the article, I think Article 14, and there were also a lot of good initiatives, as well as justifications concerning certain matters. Here I would add some things only by not including the Roma communities enough to have their locations equipped only with appropriate municipal infrastructure, but also by the municipalities having to take care of some other matters. They must ensure that these children can also participate equally in child care in order to be able to participate equally in schools. As a rule, there is also a need to provide certain costs for these matters, which fall within the category of so-called superstandard, either as an additional education or as a result of the introduction of additional logoped and similar things. That is why I propose that in this amendment, municipalities where Roma have a permanent residence are recognised, not only the municipalities listed in Article 14 of the basic proposal, but also other municipalities, as well as those municipalities where Roma live in irregular locations that are not listed, so I propose that they be added to all those municipalities, including those not mentioned, to provide additional costs for the establishment of conditions for Roma communities to be equally integrated, not only by municipal standards, but also in this educational process, which is ultimately crucial. Without good conditions in education, the Roma community has no real possibilities either to participate in local community bodies or to participate in society, either in the business world or in social activities. Therefore, I suggest that the amendment replacing the amendment of the People's Party's Group be supported by our amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mrs. Zupanova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you very much. Given that there is a great deal of uncertainty about this article 14 and that we do not trust the Government, I propose that the government provide us with a list of all the municipalities where Roma live, how many Roma are living in these municipalities and how homogeneous and integrated they are. I don't think this should be a problem and we could get it on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u5	Mrs. Shirce is not here. Mr Fabjan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen! I'd kind of like to get involved mainly in yesterday's debate. Because I listened to her correctly, I found out, and I can say that most of the debaters did not face a live problem on this subject. The parishioners, the councils of the congregation, and especially the locals in those municipalities where the Roma community lives, well know what these problems are, and especially what obligations of the municipal budgets are necessary to their settlements. Above all, it is the material obligations that would begin to resolve the problem. The fact is also that Roma live and will live in Slovenia. The third fact is, of course, that the country has made too little use of this problem in the past. I certainly agree with yesterday's debate by the speaker, Mr Janša, who said that it would be necessary to prepare this bill as soon as possible, which would also somehow be concrete or lay the foundations for a financial solution to this problem. It should also be said that the Roma are aware of the rights and the lack of duty, and this would also personally support the proposal to be given the opportunity as representatives of Roma in municipal councils. This right to head office in the municipal world will also mean taking on certain responsibilities as they receive this opportunity and may also be in the municipal world. These responsibilities are those that will be involved in society tomorrow and also in these problems. The Slovenian People's Party has also tabled an amendment to Article 14, and if you read it well, especially the explanation of the amendment, it indicates the beginning of a path to solving this problem. That's why I'm asking you to come to this amendment to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u7	Thank you very much. You can discuss it with Aha, and Mrs. Shirca. [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you very much. Yesterday, I warned that when this article is being amended, the quotations say that we are "sale" other content or inter-class, everyone is trying to apply his or her aspects. We also found yesterday that some are very discriminatory. In the amendment tabled by the People's Party, I would like to point out that the situation from a financial point of view should be resolved in an article dealing with the mere appointment of the Roma community into the world. I think that vaccination of the acquisition of some additional financial resources within the framework proposed by the resolution of this issue is somewhat misleading. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u9	Replica, Mr Fabjan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u10	See, given that the government did not have an opinion on the parental committee either, I would ask the government to define the amendment of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The situation of the Roma and their rights are governed, as you know, by a number of international conventions and recommendations, particularly the United Nations, the Council of Europe and also the European Commission or the European Union. It is also very important that, in our negotiations with the European Union, this issue has been specifically raised and that the final progress report will also include a report on what the candidate country has done to protect the rights of Roma communities. In addition, one of the key reasons for the current amendment of the Local Self-Government Act, which we are adopting under our proposal under a rapid procedure, is the well-known, repeatedly mentioned decision of the Constitutional Court requiring stronger legal protection for Roma than has been the case so far, since the law in force had to ensure the presence in municipal councils everywhere where Roma communities live autonomously. This legal protection is not sufficient under the criteria established by the Constitutional Court or in their view. It was therefore necessary to create stronger legal protection, and this is what is involved in the government proposal, which lists the municipalities in which this right must be guaranteed to the Roma. The government initially discussed a proposal from the Ministry of the Interior, which was slightly different, which in fact wanted to list only the criteria, to develop the criteria of autonomy and, above all, to include criteria for permanent settlement and Roma organisation. However, in the government debate, taking into account international comparisons in this area, the view prevailed that the definition of Roma rights through criteria and leave the municipalities to decide on this basis whether or not they will grant these rights to Roma is not sufficient. The State must, in this way, ensure that these rights are realized and not in such a way that such a decision on whether or not the right is to be taken in different ways to ensure that this decision is left to the congregation. Therefore, the text we propose lists 20 municipalities for which there is a legal obligation under this proposal to exercise this right. According to the government's position, we only ensure a sufficiently high level of legal certainty of the protection of Roma rights, as is the case with international documents, as well as with intention, from the explanation of the Constitutional Court. Of course, the question arises as to how we came to these 20 congregations. This question is raised in a just and just manner. I would say that this is a proposal made by the professional and relevant authorities in the government. In particular, I am thinking here of the National Affairs Institute, which has a number of research and studies on this. By the way, these studies also answer questions raised by fellow Member Zupanov about the frequency, population of Roma communities in individual municipalities and the state of their organisation. By the way, let me add the information that we specifically examined or identified in relation to yesterday's debate. Indeed, the degree of organisation in these 20 municipalities, if measured by the number of Roma societies in these municipalities, is such that, according to this criterion, only 11 municipalities have established a Roma society, a society dealing with or dealing with Roma rights issues. The decision on 20 municipalities is therefore based on studies of the Institute for Nationality Affairs and on the explicit position of two government institutions, namely the Office for Nationality and the Commission for the Protection of Romani and Other Ethnic Communities. The data are based on research and on the position of two relevant government institutions. We consider this to be a solid enough basis for the government to propose such a decision. Of course, we agree with all those who have pointed out that this is not static but dynamic data. The answer to this question is, of course, possible only in such a way that, in the case of relevant changes identified in the same manner as the situation in 20 municipalities has been established, the amendment of the law amending, extending or shrinking the list of municipalities. This is the only possible way if we adopt the view that the State and not the municipality must ensure the protection of rights as the international conventions dictate. I therefore propose that you support the basic text set out in Article 14 and not the amendments tabled in this Article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. With these additional explanations, I would like to add the following. The fact that this law will be followed by the adoption of these municipalities, which are listed here, will assume the responsibility of resolving the problem of the Roma community, will certainly result in the fact that all the other municipalities, so close to one hundred and forty congregations, will send their Roma to these congregations, because they will simply say, and we are not responsible for solving your problem and there will be concentration of Roma communities in these municipalities. Even bigger than it is today. While waiting for the Roma community to happen in a congregation that is not listed here, it is nice, but I note the problem that this will not occur because all other congregations will elegantly solve this problem by sending them to these congregations, which are recorded in the law. An extremely incorrect solution, but I would like to point out once again that these solutions cannot be undertaken without adequate, including financial criteria, so that you can meet all these requirements or accept all these requirements and then try to implement them, which will certainly be created by this obligation. This is a matter or a solution that is not well thought out and will certainly cause additional problems, additional obligations to these congregations. The solution outlined in the amendment of the People's Party, which is also supplemented by colleague Tanko, is a solution that allows for a reduced procedure in this instant. If we had a regular procedure or a rapid procedure, of course, we could also open other articles. At this point in the shorter procedure, it is not possible to open other articles, but without an appropriate mechanism to provide additional resources we have imposed too much obligations on these municipalities. In addition, it is stated that these municipalities must provide representatives in the municipal council in regular local elections in 2002. If this deadline were adapted to change other legislation that would try to resolve it, the problem would be more manageable. But there's a very short deadline here. The year 2002 is when we will have to ensure the presence of a representative in the municipal world, but everything else is practically inconclusive, undefined and therefore this solution is extremely improperly prepared. In addition, to illustrate these obligations, the regulations already addressing the presence of Roma in an area in the field of the Ministry of Education talk about whether you have a department under the regulations of 28 children, and if there are three Roma children in this section, this department can be reduced to 21 children. However, if it is only a department consisting only of Roma children, the fifth section can only be 16-numbered. The Ministry of Education has already been aware of this problem in education. Other areas will also need to address this problem and not leave it unresolved. It is simply a matter of more demanding procedures. Most illustrated, however, is possible in these regulations already prepared and prepared by the Ministry of Education. The other areas should follow if we are going into such a legal solution. This marriage solution, I repeat, has also somehow tried to explain very well, it is an international obligation, an obligation of the Constitution, a decision of the Constitutional Court and all these obligations are imposed on these municipalities. However, there will certainly be an even greater concentration of Roma in these municipalities if the law is adopted as it is written. This is an additional problem that we haven't really talked about yet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u15	Replica, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say, I am somewhat disappointed at the Minister's response. For, as has already been found in the debate, we have found that the basic version of the novel is flawed because it leaves out a number of municipalities where Roma communities certainly live. We can say this with certainty because we know these things well enough. After all, there are quite a few people here who also manage the territory of Slovenia in a different way, many are also mayors here and know these things well. I am also disappointed that the proposal that solves the novel's error is said to be either a proposal from a public party or a compensation that we have proposed, which is even more complete, that there is no support in the government. We wanted to make sure, in some way, that the obligation is rectified or that it gives an obligation or tasks to those municipalities where the Roma community exists and who have the ambition to actively resolve these problems. I think it's extreme, and I can also say it's unrealistic to say that there is no support for one or the other amendment in which they are listed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Article 14 addresses the complex issue of the status of the Roma community in relation to the local level and the law on local self-government. In view of the performance by the Minister, who says that the government does not support any amendments tabled, we might be able to come to the third reading and have the article closed. Yesterday, Mrs Bitenchev warned that there had been a technical error in the amendment, so on behalf of the Group of Members, he would have tabled an amendment that would have been more technical in nature and read, "The forecast sentence should be changed by saying, 'A new 101a article should be added, which reads as follows." I am sure that this amendment will be adopted, but we are also able to find solutions in the third reading and also to resolve the issues raised by colleague Weber and colleague Tanko and some other colleagues. So this amendment just came in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? [[No one else.]] Oh, excuse me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you, Vice President. Well, I don't get it. I think this article speaks only of the fact that Roma communities have a representative in the municipal council, and nothing else. And now you're mixing education here on one side, on the other side, and so on. If a member of a Roma community is in a congregation, in a congregation, he will present to you the problems they have and then you will solve them. Also in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia there is a certain amount for the Roma community, which can be used either for the municipality or for, I don't know, education and so on. But all we're talking about here is that where the Roma are organized, let's say -- the damage to this amendment that we've withdrawn -- that they have their own representative in the municipal world. I can tell you, for example, in our congregation, we are pleased to have a representative, so Italians, in the municipal world, because we are familiar with the problem of the Italian community. And I don't think it's wrong that he's sitting in the municipal world, not knowing which congregation where the Roma are, and also the representative of the Roma, so you'll get a plus, the other problems will be solved, financially and so on. But that's not what we're talking about.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you very much, Mr. Gasparini. Madam Secretary of State or Minister, will you respond?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u22	Your Honor! Ambassador Tanko spoke of an amendment regarding the number of Roma congregations. I don't know or have any contact with this amendment. The only amendment of the People's Party is bound here to finance and I would like to identify myself for this amendment. We certainly believe that the issue of financing needs to be regulated by law, as it is regulated for nationalities, but as it is regulated for nationalities in the Law on Community Financing, it would also make sense for Roma communities or to regulate the costs of representation in municipal councils in the Law on Community Financing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, then Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u24	Thank you very much. The People's Party shall have an amendment submitted under order number 5 in its review of the amendments. However, we have tabled an amendment to this amendment, replacing the text of the People's Party with a text such as Order No. 4. We have proposed an improvement of the text tabled by the parliamentary group of the people's party. But we're dealing with the exact same subject.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you. Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u26	Replica or somehow an answer to Mr Gasparini, given the fact that this article should speak only of elections or the election of a representative of the Roma community to the world, to the municipal council. Sure, that's what he's talking about. I have pointed out that this is a matter of law following a reduced procedure and that there are very limited options for bringing solutions into this law because they are open only to concrete ones, but these articles, which the applicant has opened or proposed to amend by introducing legislation after a reduced procedure. However, this law says that the representative of the Roma community will already be sitting in municipal councils after the 2002 elections. The Law on Community Financing, I agree, must solve this problem, as mentioned by Mr Minister. Let us look at how many proposals for amending this law are currently being tabled. When will the Law on the Financing of the Congregations come to pass? How long until then - a very uncertain period. However, obligations will arise, I agree, a certain resource is also foreseen for individual ministries to solve certain problems for the needs of Roma communities, but it is also linked to the share of the municipal budget. The congregation must always go with it. And of course, it will be very difficult to explain in some environment when you're making a priority when you know you have thousands of questions open, including municipal equipment, I'll say, some areas. The national housing scheme is a priority - that you will now change this priority and go municipally to equip and train the land that Roma families need. However, if you combine these complexes of the Roma community and others interested in solving the housing problem, there will certainly be a reduced interest in purchasing land at such a location, the price of such land will fall and, of course, there will be additional costs for the municipality, which will otherwise invest in municipal equipment. So these solutions are, and these problems already exist, we are aware that we are not moving away from them, but with these additional obligations that we already have in 2002, we must follow other solutions to other laws. Unfortunately, we can expect that the law on the financing of municipalities will not be dealt with in a short time, will not be amended in a short time, and a very big problem will arise. But if you have a systemic resource to solve the problem of the Roma community, the priority is not questionable. You know, you're going to use this resource for this and this problem, and I don't need to be within the budget, and I don't know how to coordinate. So this moment in the short-term law is the intended solution, it is not the best systemic solution, I agree, but the reduced procedure is and in 2002 it will be necessary to have a representative in this world, if not, but we have to say, we are going to the next elections, four years from then, and probably the law of community funding will be changed. Certainly not in 2002.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr Fabjan, did you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u28	I have to say I'm terribly disappointed and surprised. In fact, whether these Roma in these municipalities, where they were autonomously inhabited, were not concerned, were not regulating the land, or were not worried about all the other things. In fact, we could write down an amendment that would say: The seat of the saint of the Roma community costs the congregation in the congregation so much and so. And for that, the state must provide the money. That's all. All other things, municipal equipment and so on, belong, clearly, to the care of the congregation, to its budget and so on. I don't mind if all those who assume that you know this issue better say that in balancing budgets, we have to allocate a few more resources to the Roma communities, or in some other solution, not here, when we are talking only about the seat. We can take an additional decision in the law, although I am constantly opposed to the additional conclusions that because the involvement of Roma in the regulation of their own affairs, along with the other inhabitants in the territory of a municipality, will increase their financial resources, higher costs, and therefore more money will be needed. I can, but I'm asking you nicely, this law is talking about it and this point, this article is talking about whether or not they will have a seat or not. I would really not like this discussion to continue on this point, because, if I understand it correctly, it would probably be necessary to discuss once again whether these Roma have good conditions for schooling, even though I know that the congregations are struggling to include them, but they are not walking and so on. There are various problems with some other things, but it seems to me that this article is intended for something else, and, at least I would like to refrain from a discussion that would now condition seats in the municipal councils by providing additional money, these seats will be provided, but if this extra money is not available, we do not know whether or not they would. I don't think that's a real discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you. Mr. Fabjan, the replica. Then, sir. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. I would just like to replicate to Mr Anderlich here in this part, and perhaps start with one statement on the round table on the topic of solving the Roma problem that was in Krk when someone said that the one who would solve the Roma problem would get the Nobel Prize. Mr Anderlich, as you used to say, we are actually solving the problem here, in my opinion, a lot of people disagree. You've certainly passed, you've hit the pass. As regards municipal budgets and the state budget. See, this amendment of the Slovenian People's Party indicates in this law that it is possible if we accept it, that it is possible to provide additional funds to the municipalities to solve this problem. If we read it correctly, this is to Article 14, we propose: 'The second paragraph of Article 101, which reads: 'The amount of the funds referred to in Article 56(2) of this Act shall also be determined by taking into account the status of the municipality in terms of ensuring the situation and specific rights of the Roma community.' That's exactly what he's talking about. That's exactly what he's talking about. So, Mr Anderlich, you know and also come from quite a few municipalities that you know that the country is the one that has to solve this problem. Mr Minister himself said that he recognises and that it is essentially the state, the government of the one that will solve it with the budget. This amendment of ours says so. And once again, back him up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Of course, one of these key problems of these special communities is always participation in decision-making. And if I understand correctly, this article speaks only of solving this problem. That's why, I'm going to say, it's a surprise that this time, my colleague Weber speaks from the left, the language that they leave when they talk about these problems, practically everywhere in the world, and they avoid it, let's say, the noble right-wing people. From this point of view, it is unbearable to say that they will then move the Roma to a place where certain rights will be guaranteed, or they will be driven to a place where certain rights can be guaranteed. See, in Murska Sobota there are a large number of Hungarians, and they do not accidentally send their right to realize on Goričko. I don't want to start any discussions with that. What is most serious is that the colleague of Vebra is concerned that Roma will potentially be able to exercise part of their rights in 2002 - and we have in fact an open chapter of the Constitution since the very beginning of the Republic of Slovenia. So, if not already in 2002, already in 2006 or 2010, about such cycles, these things go. Of course, I agree with all the others who say that other instruments need to be set up to solve other problems. But the basis is also to ensure the right to participate in the resolution of some local problems. The mechanisms introduced by, say, the Ministry of Education or I could tell you about the mechanisms of the Ministry of Culture have simply encouraged those people who had no idea how they could exercise their rights to be aware of these rights and tried to realize them. Even so, these societies would not have occurred unless a professional animator had been financed and so on. So the time will come when we will talk about the finances of the congregations, and then, colleague Weber, you will propose a supplement that will bring some of the money to these congregations for this too. Today we are talking about participation in the management of public affairs. I am worried about something else that it will be difficult to establish directories immediately, that it will be difficult in fact to get this seat to be perfected in quality, but I am also concerned that, say, yours or any other party will be immediately on the Romani community and try to ensure even more voice in the municipal world whenever possible. Then there will be no problem with the fact that they also exist as real, let's say local political power. That is why I would be in favour of supporting this, to fix it, as it is for national communities - it is known in which, in Prekmurje, according to the old knowledge, in which local communities the national community lives and to this they were bound by rights. And there's no other way. It is necessary to indicate in which local communities this can be organised. Later, let's say, hypothetically, I tell you, you will fight as you fight for the status of the city council, for the status of the congregation, which will also guarantee these rights, if you find that there is on the one hand this community and that there is an interest in saving them when there is a place to do so. But to prevent, because everything is not yet appointed, because it is not yet so-called, I will abuse words, final solutions and perfect solutions, more than the final ones, to make this step, that is, but I will say, very problematic speech, which is at the root of this, part of this constitution, and if you want, all these declarations on which the modern world is founded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u33	Replica, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u34	I have a replica of Mr Školč, who has tried skillfully to turn my words, but he himself has come to the conclusion that the Ministry of Education has been aware of this problem and has foreseen these solutions on the financial side. And what I'm talking about today is that we have to solve them and we're trying to solve them by now, but we know that we can't do them without additional funding in the way that we need to. And as it is already an election to the municipal council in 2002, I propose that this supplement, which has been submitted by the public party, be supported. That's what I'm talking about. I mean, that trick, the right-wing approach, not the left-handed one, and so on, which was incorrect on your part, and I hope you won't repeat it again. It's also about animation, who's going to elect someone in some environment. Just like that, don't push it because you don't know the situation. But the fact is that there are some solutions here today that are identical to those that the Ministry of Education once solved because it was aware of this problem. Today we ask one segment, but it is not supported by other measures, which are also necessary. And that logic, when it comes to funding the municipalities, then make sure that it comes into the budget. Yes, given that this is a constitutional norm, it is likely that this will come into this law on its own. Whether we will have to fight specifically to fight these rights, even through a debate in Parliament. We want to solve this problem, but we want to solve it in a concrete way. Not by saying that the marriage is now covered, we have moved the problem to the local community and the country is withdrawing from here. That's the problem. Disengagement of the state.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u35	Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to replicate my colleague, Skull. In this debate, I think the National Assembly has done its duty in solving the problem of the Roma community with a high rating. And there's no division left-right. We all want to solve the problem of the Roma community in Slovenia and I do not see the left and right positions here. And whoever is pointing in this direction brings the first elements of cultural struggle and certain issues that are wrong and it is unnecessary to push left, right, pitiful and so on. I have before me a recommendation from the Council of Europe 9397 adopted in April this year. And that is an excellent text and gives us the basis for our decisions today. The amendment of the Group of Members also has a basis in this document. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are confident and follow the Council of Europe that elements of Roma community involvement should also be sought at local level, in the municipality, in the committees of municipal councils, as well as in the municipal council. This recommendation also explicitly highlights the economic aspect and others. So, the direct argument and the basis for such a solution are also in this document and you can look at it. So, I propose that we adopt at least one amendment to this Article and then, in the third reading, we find the most appropriate solution to address this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mrs. Possonec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I believe that there should be a representative of the Office of Nationality in this debate on resolving the problem of the Roma community. And the Nationality Office is responsible for this matter, and it is also responsible for the fact that we do not yet have a law on the Roma community.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you. Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u40	I repeat once again that it is not nice to trade rights, and at this point I think that the proposed solutions are actually traded with the rights that Roma have. The amendment actually says yes, of course, to the world, only his head costs so much and so. This does not seem to be an absolute moment and a place and a place to solve such matters.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The debate is going in a different direction and is moving away from what it aims to do. I ask you, replicas are only possible in this substantive context, not by extending it to nationalities, to political options, I do not know what dimensions. I will not allow such replicas because they are not in accordance with the rules of procedure. Only replicas that are in line with what is under discussion. Mr. Pache has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u42	At the beginning of the presentation of the opinion of the parliamentary group, we were convinced that Article 101 and Article 14 of the amendment law brought the artificial creation of seats. After this debate, which took place late yesterday afternoon and today, we are firmly convinced of this. In Slovenia, an active and passive electoral right applies anyway. People in such or other organised groups, which Roma communities usually are, have the right to perform in local communities. And if the election results bring them a sufficient number, they will be represented in local community bodies. Why artificially cause this disagreement between the values or numbers needed for election. In the Slovenian National Party, we say once again, the only amendment we are making is that which is being tabled by the Slovenian National Party, so that paragraph 14 is deleted, so that everyone can move evenly in each other's elections. Because if we now select congregations, on the other hand, artificially create seats for individual interests, we lose the concept of democracy in this country, we lose the concept of general elections. Is that really what we want? New trends will appear at all stages. Once again, everyone has the right to participate, under such conditions and conditions, to be proposed by a political party, to propose a single qualified number of signatures, they have the option. Why create artificial seats for individual groups? In the Slovenian National Party, we will only support the amendment under order number 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u43	Thank you. Mrs. Prašnjarova, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I just wanted to say that in this law it is only a partial guarantee of the right to provide a representative of the Roma in the municipal world, but today, on the basis of what I could say, an existing law on the financing of municipalities, so that regardless of whether there is any change in the financing that is already under way today, the constitutional rights of members of the Roma community could be said. In particular, I can say a few specific cases. The Ministry of Education has already been mentioned, and there are specific standards and norms through which those schools where they are educated are already receiving additional funding. A second call from the Ministry of Economy, which was about to co-finance the municipal infrastructure in an area where the Roma community lives, is also being concluded. And also the Nationality Office is essentially funding the activities of the Roma associations now. In spite of the fact that it is not explicit, as the Italian and Hungarian nationalities are referred to in the Financing Act, this is already being done today. However, we do believe that this change must indeed take place in the context of changes to the financing law and that it does not fall under the law on local self-government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u45	Two more replicas, and then I hope we can finish this point and move on to a decision, because we don't hear any more. Mr. Skull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I'm replicating my colleague Webra. I'd say it wasn't about twisting words, but quoting into perhaps a less pleasant context for him. You will recall that someone else had already said something here, and then it turned out that maybe something third thought, said it, and everyone else understood it as it was said. However, I am not announcing that we should explain each other, but because of some logic that is embedded in this bargaining and that we also need to have money if we are to exercise the participation of Roma at local level - this thesis is, I will say, in the end, very controversial because these people are an integral part of this community. They have some, as I just said, their special needs, such as linguistic and cultural, and these communities are obliged to save them, whether they receive special money from the state or not. That's usually what I'm going to say is the starting point for solving these problems in the world. Of course, I agree that these communities are, for example, financially not so consolidated that they need to be provided with additional money to address these special interests of the population groups. But the solution to these problems is that money will come first, and then they will be able to tell in the municipal world what they would really like to have -- it seems to me like a crazy logic. That is why I expect from you a different order of steps, as you say, from the leftist, to support participation and to support in the next steps the resolution of legislation in other areas. It would not be the first time that the problem of a particular group of people is solved in different laws. It's nothing unusual. We are practically talking about language practices of minorities in most laws, and we will also come to this discussion, whether or not we will reinvigorate this right. I'm talking about an analogy that has to be solved here. We talked about, say, the law on identity cards, we talked about education legislation. And from this point of view, it will be necessary to apply the specificity already provided for in the Constitution in other legislation and to incorporate a good part of it into a basic law, which is unfortunately not yet in place, while we are having individual discussions. Today we are having one such individual debate that will lead to elections. If this opportunity is missed, she will be delayed for at least five years. That's all I was talking about. And I protested against this logic of yours that since everything else is not arranged, let's postpone these rights for five more years.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Replica also Mr Jerovšek and then Mr Battelli. I don't have a business opportunity to have any of these replicas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u48	I'd like to ask my colleague Majdi Shirci - I think her performance is extremely double-faced. That's not fair. On the one hand, it advocates the rights of Roma communities, which I appreciate, which is the right thing to do, and on the other hand accuses Members who do not object, but have problems with these Roma communities, which require some money to trade with Roma communities. It's an extremely dishonest, two-faced behavior. Double morality. To be honest with you, as a Ljubljana girl you will define yourself as a Ljubljana City Council, to propose that Ljubljana, as an extremely rich community, will cover the costs of all of this throughout Slovenia. No, why shouldn't all these mayors, and all those with extraordinary financial problems, ask for it. And you accuse them of trading with their rights. You're trading to know. And you're going to demagogy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u49	Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to join Mrs Širc's debates yesterday, today, Mr Anderlic, Mrs Shirc and Mr Školč. And I would like to explain in terms of the replica to my colleagues that we are talking about a special seat in the municipal councils. And not about anything else. Otherwise, the history of parliamentary democracy sometimes begins with the election right of rich nobles, then extends to rich men, then extends to all men, then spreads to men and women, then spreads to the local level with all groups that have to be able to participate in the management of public affairs where they live together with others. And it's not only that the Roma live with others, it's that others live with the Roma. Because that's how it is. Finally, in my opinion, a very responsible solution to certain issues begins on the basis of this point. Common responsibilities for common space within local self-government. That's what we're doing today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you. Can we now conclude the debate on this subject? Because we have not heard new substantive facts, but we are now talking only about some fragments from individual debates. Mr. Weber, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u52	I just want to complement or further explain my debate for a moment because it is obvious that it wants to be abused for another purpose. I didn't talk about it, first the money, then the election to the municipal council. I talked about having a representative in the municipal council, we also need to take care of other areas so that this city can be established in that space and that we can actively solve this problem. And all the instigations that have been in this direction to speak the other way do not hold, and I also suggest that you read the magnetogram and then talk about it. However, I think it is right to point out once again that in 2002 the election, as envisaged, will only be possible to amend the law on the financing of municipalities once all the laws that are already in the procedure have been removed, and this is the time frame that I have pointed out, not the other. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. And we will follow this order. So, please, we have two sheets of paper. There are amendments on one, all five amendments, and there is no other, because Mrs Majnikov withdrew it. In this place, under order number 2, I am adding the amendment tabled by Mr Podobnik. Is that understandable? First, let's vote oamandmai under order number one. We're at Article 14, the first amendment. We're voting, please. A voice explanation, I suppose?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u54	In view of the fact that we do not have all the writings in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, please inform the proposer before we go to the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u55	The material has been distributed to everyone, so there are no reasons, we never do it separately, but I will do it on special request. Well, one more time. This is not the reason why the vote should be suspended; this is what the Member may know, but good 14th Article, the first amendment was tabled by the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. [[...]] For those of you who didn't know. We're voting. Of the 60 present, 3 Members and Members voted in favour, against 48 Members and Members. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The second amendment was tabled by Mr Podobnik on behalf of the SLS Group. We're voting. Of the 59 present, 42 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The third amendment was tabled by Mr Janša. We're voting. Of the 59 present, 20 Members and Members voted against. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The fourth amendment was tabled by Mr Tanko. We're voting. Of the 61 present, 21 Members and Members voted against. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The fifth amendment was tabled by the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We're voting, please. Of the 62 present, 18 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let us vote on Article 14 as a whole. We're voting, please. Of the 63 present, 49 votes in favour and 9 against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We're at Article 15, two amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Yuri. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u56	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will talk about the second amendment, which he already spoke about yesterday at the presentation of the positions of a member of the group of Members of the United List, colleague Miran Potrč, in order to explain a few other circumstances which are important in deciding on this amendment. This is a solution proposed by the government and which we oppose in our parliamentary group in connection with the elections in the Koper municipality. This is to say that the initial proposal of the Ministry or the local self-government office was exactly as proposed in the amendment. In fact, the amendment itself is summarized from the initial proposal of the Ministry, which went to the government, which was amended by the government. Let me also recall that the coalition has also been coordinated to support such an initial solution. That's why I'm surprised she didn't stick to the ruling deal. Why has there been a change? The government's opinion on the legislation, which states - I have received this material - has prevailed that the mandate of all those who were loved in the early elections or in subsequent regular elections, as was the case in Cyprus, is shorter. I was, remember, the one you were in the previous term, also the first to be signed in the draft law, which in 1999 allowed local elections to be held in the Municipality of Koper after a year before the Constitutional Court had banned them because of known complications with the dismemberment of the Municipality of Koper, and, of course, as this bill was proposed at that time, it was adopted and allowed elections to be held in 1999. Therefore, I also hope to assess the position of the law enforcement service as incorrect. Look, first of all, the elections that were in Cyprus three years ago were neither premature nor delayed, but delayed. Tortured, certainly and certainly special, and carried out by special law. It is precisely to the provision referred to by the Law Service as a mermaid for the resolution of the Cyprus case, the 41st Article of the Law on Local Self-Government, which provides for me to be grateful for a little more attention, which provides that the regular term of office of the local community shall be four years, not three years, four years. [[...]] [[...]] The 24th section of the Local Elections Act, which stipulates that regular municipal elections are every four years, not every three years, every four years, justify the initial proposal of the Ministry that elections be held in Cyprus at the end of the regular term, that is, 2003. The explanation of the job that it is understood that elections are meant throughout the country, as is normally the case around the world, does not stand the criticism. First of all, there is no room for understanding in consistent legislation. Second of all, we have different situations around the world. In neighbouring Italy, of course, elections are in differentiated periods. They're not at the same time. Well, it is true that the mandate of the mayor and municipal councillors and councillors in the municipality of Koper is somewhat specific, it can, of course, be interrupted by the decree of the law on the call for regular local elections in the municipality of Koper, which is still in force, only if there is a territorial reorganisation of the municipality of Koper by the establishment of one or more new municipalities in the area. In this case, of course, that mandate shall be terminated. But this has not happened and therefore we claim that it is not justified to intervene in the government as proposed. Of course, our concerns about the government's proposal are well founded, and the opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which has been problematic or has found that the government has not sufficiently explained the reasons for such a solution. That it is not important, however, when certain political calculations prevail, it proves the vote in the Internal Policy Committee, where our amendment was easily rejected. That is why I do not expect much, but if you listen to these arguments and support our amendment, I will be grateful if not, I am so grateful to you for listening to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr. Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Given that I come from the municipality of Koper alone and that in the past, within the local committee, of course, I have also discussed a lot and worked to ensure that the municipality of Koper remains the same as it is, of course, I have a duty to discuss this subject, especially if, of course, this amendment, which, or the article and amendment setting out the elections in this congregation, is concerned. I must say here that there is my fear that the elections in the Koper municipality will be again decided and debated at the last minute and that the voters will actually know when to go to the elections in the Koper municipality is practically coming to fruition. This fear is being realized. The story with this municipality continues and does not get its peaceful epilogue, although since the beginning of the reform of the local self-government we have been consistently repeating one thing, that we are nothing special and that we want to live in accordance with the laws applicable to everyone else in Slovenia and in the municipality we spoke of in the referendum. I would have remembered myself, like my colleague Yuri, what was going on in 1998. There was no election in Cyprus, and the Constitutional Court, by way of a decision, had already stopped the electoral process, thereby extending the mandate of the current mayors and the municipal council and extending the mandate they felt less legal damage than the conduct of the elections. Finally, on the basis of the constitutional right to vote of local authorities, the National Assembly adopted a law in 1999 on the call for regular local elections in the municipality of Koper, on the basis of which the President of the National Assembly called for elections to the municipal council and to the mayor. I must say here, Comrade Yuri, it is not just that you, as you insist on saying that you are first-signed in this law. However, it is necessary to say that this law has taken place on the basis of the collective efforts of all those who have been signed under this law, as well as the two parties who have been fighting and fighting, first of all that the division of the city’s congregation would not have taken place and, secondly, that the elections could finally be held, given that the mandate had been suspended. And now we're here. Although I must say that shortly after the elections, a debate was developed between elected officials and between experts and people and they were asking a question that is now up to date and up to date - what is the mandate and, in fact, what it was intended to be. That is why, when we came to the new term of the National Assembly, I immediately asked the President of the National Assembly, who was also signed by my colleague Jura and my colleague Battelli - because all three of us from Kopra - we wrote him a letter asking him to do everything possible for the Koperans to receive, in particular, timely answers to the questions about the elections. I am fully aware that the President of the National Assembly here has a special influence or, I will say, he probably has no decision on this in his intervention. Surely we could have done this debate sooner. The last moment and the last day happened again, and once again the question is also procedural, when are we going to execute these things so that the elections in Cyprus will be held. Following the Government's proposal to amend and supplement the Local Self-Government Act, it also contains provisions coordinating the Local Self-Government Act and the Law on Local Elections, which is necessary because of the regulation of this unclear duration of the mandates of municipal officials in our municipality, and in particular the provisions relating to the harmonisation of the Law on Local Self-Government and the Law on Local Elections, which must be adopted and enforced in due time before the first possible deadline for the convening of regular local elections in 2002. In the proposal, the government relied on its government service and a number of experts who felt the same - that in Slovenia, according to legislation, local elections should be held in the area of all Slovenia at the same time and that, in essence, the mandate itself, although set as four years in the second law, is still not an exclusive right, which is given in advance, and there are also appropriate conditions under which this mandate may be shorter. There's one more thing I have to say here. Mr Juri said that their amendment was the initial proposal of the Ministry, which was subsequently amended and voted on by the government. As far as I have information, there was no vote on the government's proposal, which means the original one we have now before us, which means it's not true that it was over-voted. It was not voted on, which means it was adopted by consensus. That's how I understand, as far as I know, the practice of government. Well, the proposal of the United List of Social Democrats proposes that the elections be postponed again or that the four-year term should be four years, that the Kurds should join the elections in 2003 and that the next term should be only three years. What we are doing is simply prolonging the emergency situation of the Koper Congregation for years to come. We'll do some precedent on one side again. And I have already asked the committee whether this does not violate the active electoral rights of those who would like to take part in future elections, because they will not be able to go to the elections for four years, but only for three. Unlike that, I am fully aware that the current mayor, when he went to the elections, may have expected a four-year term, is now getting shorter, but he will know that he will be shorter, but that does not change the fact. It is also a question of whether it has been known and expressly stated that the mandate will be four years, regardless of whether the law refers to regular local elections in the municipality of Koper, but according to the statements, both the President of the Electoral Commission at the time and also some officials elected, simply after the elections, did not know what mandate they had been elected. Perhaps the marriage at the time, as it was prepared, was flawed. Probably there were no elements to say how many years the mandate was given to those politicians who were elected to those elections. And so in this confrontation of two different professional approaches and, of course, here proposals also face some other different and conflicting interests sometimes. I also think that the following should be taken into account: first, I think that we should make sure that the Koper municipality is already entrenched once, and that, I think, as soon as possible, into the country's electoral system. That, even on the cost side of the elections, they can be held this year, at the same time as the elections for the President of the State, and that, of course, we contribute to reducing the costs of the elections, and that, in fact, when this state of emergency in Cyprus is somehow eliminated by this year's elections, we also avoid exposing a new precedent with what I have already mentioned to a shorter term by 2006. And we are solving the problem now, this year and no longer in 2006 or 2003, as proposed. That's all I have to say in the end. I express once again my dissatisfaction that this was the last moment. I am inclined to believe that this amendment, as you have prepared it, would nevertheless be accepted. However, a number of other arguments suggest that it is right to support the Government's proposal that elections be this year and that we do not accept or support your proposal, dear colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u59	Three replicas. Mr. Yuri, Mr. Rupar, Mr. Jerovšek. Excuse me, Mr Jerovšek, do you have a discussion or a replica? Replica. Then I apologize. Mr. Rupar has a debate. Here you go, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u60	Thank you. I'd like to remind my friend Marshich of some facts. First of all, of course, the Ministry's first proposal was based on the principle of trust in the law, by which you know the rules of the game in advance. What the government has decided changes, of course, the rules of the game during the game itself. So it was known, and this was the result of a dictatorship of "regular local elections", that the mandate is four years and exceptionally can be interrupted if there is a territorial transformation of the municipality. That was clear enough. The second principle is the coexistence in elections throughout the country, because it is cheaper. This is what the government is proposing. I would also like to remind my colleague Marsic that we really asked at the time and I also signed up to the invitation of the President of the National Assembly to put an end to any doubts as soon as possible. Then there was much time, since we were involved in clearing up these doubts ourselves. There have been several interviews in Cyprus itself, between representatives of the United List and liberal democracy, which are together in the coalition. It was also agreed that the least controversial solution could be found in a situation where there could be doubts on one side and on the other for any solution, which is the specificity of the municipality of Koper. It was also agreed to adopt such a solution as was originally proposed, and also here in Parliament, in the negotiation of parliamentary groups, also harmonised. I was surprised, therefore, that there were suddenly different decisions or that the government had suddenly put off the debate about the fact that the solution was not, of course, favourable to representatives of the LDS in particular. I also suspected at that time, Comrade Marshič, that you had already led this double game in Cyprus, you agreed with us on the solution we proposed, but on the other hand, of course, you urged your representatives in the government to act differently. However, I am aware that it is not a great power that the opinion of that party, which is the most powerful in this national assembly, will prevail here. That is why, of course, our party is preparing normally for the elections and will agree, even this year it is not afraid. But I repeat, we re-arbitraryly determine here in the National Assembly how elections are held in the Municipality of Koper, as the Constitutional Court ruled arbitrarily its time. That's what gives this case some kind of a mark of excellence. Well, we're not following some order, but we're laying down rules. At least I hope that regardless of the solution that will be taken, of course this will be the final solution and that we will blend, as my colleague Marsich says, into some system and will not repeat ourselves again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u61	Replica, Mr Jerovšek and then Mr. Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Of course, I will not support the amendments to the Consolidated List or to Mr Yuri. This is due to the fact that I am still well aware of all the discussions that we had at the time of the Constitutional Court decision that the Koper Municipality area should be integrated into the Slovenian administration and the local system in order to make the territory of the Kori municipality similar to other parts of Slovenia. My colleague Yuri strongly opposed it at the time. He also opposed the fact that the Constitutional Court extended the mandate of the then elected municipal council and the administration of the Municipality of Koper and strongly protested how the rights of citizens in the area of Koper were violated because they could not go to elections in the same period as elsewhere in Slovenia. But today it comes in reverse logic. That this area has some special status that local elections must be held outside the date on which they will be held throughout Slovenia. Again, it is a matter of enforcing some special status in this area. He even went so far as to suggest that it should be like Italy, where local elections were not held throughout the country on one date. I strongly protest the suggestion and covert imposition of some special status of this area. This is a hidden tendency to take place here in Slovenia. It is good that you did not propose that elections should be held in the Municipality of Koper when the neighbouring Italian municipalities are to be as strange as possible as possible what is happening with this territory. I will always oppose those who have demonstrated in Ljubljana for such special status of this area under a password - when I am great, I will be the customs officer in Black Kal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u63	Thank you, Mr. Marshich's replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. First of all, Comrade Yuri, one warning. My last name is Marsich, not Marsich. We've known each other so long, I should have known. It's very important, at least it means a lot to me. Monitoring the game in the course of the game itself; the law, as it was adopted, allowed anything to happen in the Municipality of Koper. There could be a division, there could be the mayor's resignation, the municipal council and so on. Nothing was guaranteed in advance. And as I said at the beginning, the leadership of the day didn't know what his mandate was. If they had known, they wouldn't have asked the National Explanatory Chamber. And that's what they did. But as for the double game, I think I really have to reject such insinuations here. If someone was just playing games, then everyone was doing them. Because then I don't know what the interest of the combined list is in this case. And even for you in particular, I know that, as far as this is concerned, you have not fully cleared up, you are not of the same opinion in this regard. I know this assuredly from talking to your party leaders, who had a slightly different opinion than you, colleague Yuri. It is so difficult to say whether this is true and only in the interests of the LDS, that the elections this year and not yours, and that you may be playing another game that is seen on the surface like this, but deeper is slightly different. And finally, because I'm gonna stop with the replicas because I don't think it's productive anymore. I think, colleague Yuri, that we should make sure that the problem is solved now and that we are more concerned with the development that our congregation clearly expects and needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you. Replica, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Respectable. I think that this debate is too much. If we are already following the negotiations, do not delay today until tomorrow if this logic of Mr Yuri is such that in three years we will come back to that rhythm for a four-year period, I am asked the basic question of what is behind it. Is it not behind this, the current political assessment of what is currently best suited to whom for the current situation? In the remaining three years, the successors may have less to show, otherwise it will be calculated, or those who are now in power in Cyprus will have less to prove in these three years, but they would like another year to do so further. I therefore do not believe that I will support this proposal. Let us finally move on to the rhythm that we will have elections in all Slovenia when they will be called for all municipalities and for other institutions at the same time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr. Yuri, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you. First, to my quick colleague Marsich and later to my colleague Jerovšku, who always entertains me with his discussions. My colleague Marshič, I assure you about the client's position, and this is clear from the amendment that we have tabled that the Group of Members, the leadership of the party in Cyprus, the leadership of the party in the centre, is entirely uniform that such a solution as we propose is correct. To avoid repeating the story and exercise, we put you through the previous term countless times, and I am surprised that Comrade Jerovšek still did not understand. But that's his problem. You know the story with Koper very well. I explained it, not only here in the National Assembly, but also at the Association Parliamentary Committee, there is a story they know in Strasbourg, at the Council of Europe, at the Congress of Local, Regional Authorities. It's a story that two commissions, two delegations of the Council of Europe, were dealing with here in the National Assembly, in the Government, in the Constitutional Court, so I will not repeat it to you. It is simply that we propose a solution as it seemed right, because it follows the principle of trust in law above all. With regard to the decision of the Constitutional Court, it is sometimes necessary to read, not only the judgment or decision, but also the explanation. You know well, Mr Jerovšek, that this decision is based on three conclusions: that the Municipality of Koper is alleged to be unconstitutional because it has too many settlements because it has too much territory and has a urban and rural environment. I have proved, and I think that they have also listened to me in Europe and found that there are six other municipalities that, according to all the parameters of this assessment, have even more controversial constitutional conditions; there are more settlements, there are more areas, there are more square kilometres and there are also rural and urban environments. Six congregations are more controversial from this title than the municipal congregation of Koper. The conditions for the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision are given when an appropriate qualified initiative is given and appropriate support is established for those who co-create local self-government, i.e. residents. Unfortunately, the time aspects of the decision were exceeded in 1998 - you know that it was in that last decision that six months before the call for regular local elections in 1998. The National Assembly has also tried once, you know, that the government has also submitted a proposal for an appropriate solution, which has not been supported, because the voters in the referendum have rejected it twice in the ratio 9:1, and then the decision will be implemented when conditions are given for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. A debate, Mr. Rupar. Excuse me? Replica, Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, I am to be commended for calling on me to respect the principle of trust in the law, but I think it is cynicism on your part. You who have so strongly advocated non-compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision and have also done so are urging others to respect the principle of trust in law. That's it. Now you have turned everything around, but once again I will insist: I will always oppose the apparent non-integration of the Koper area, the municipality of Koper, the bilingual area, in Slovenia. And your proposal goes in this direction - to show the world that this is an area with some special status. Don't worry. And that's what I'm alerting here's National Assembly. These trends are so pronounced in some who are working on this option that they are extremely transparent, so I will also give a strong warning to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u71	A debate, Mr. Rupar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Chairman, Mr. Secretary! I will also absolutely not support this proposal of the Consolidated List and join the opinion of my colleagues in liberal democracy, exceptionally, but I will say why. What you are proposing is to place the responsibility of some new officials who, in your opinion, will be elected to the places that will be "empty" and will knowingly shorten their mandate after this leadership. Why aren't you so "fair" and don't do this to the current municipal administration and the municipal council? Personally, I think that, as you claim, you should, in most cases, defend the right, for example, it should be as it is in Parliament. Any alternate Member who comes to the seat shall know exactly when his term of office is due to expire. None of these Members can claim that, since the date of the service of the State Assembly as a Member, his mandate has been four years. No, it's short, it's as long as everyone else, so until the next regular election to the National Assembly. I believe that it is fair and very appropriate to compare mandates and this issue at the local level. We do these comparisons in the National Assembly many times. I personally believe that the mandate and mandate of this municipal council have been eaten by the previous municipal administration, which had a five-year mandate, for one year. Thus, it is also different from that of all the rest of us in the municipal authorities in the previous term. Once again, it's not fair that we're "satting" someone we don't know about who they're going to be for a year and shortening them. In particular, I have also appealed to the Committee on Internal Policy, to the Mayor of the Municipality of Koper, to Mr Pucar and to the municipal council, which now rules the Municipality of Koper, to be so "fair" and to resign. I think this is the best card before the elections they have in their hands to go before people and say, "Look, we're fair." We want this to happen in Cyprus, as throughout Slovenia, we do." I think there is a lot of credit here if they want to repeat their success in the elections in the coming term. That's what I'd do. I'd do it. I'd do it myself. Not that the National Assembly is now wondering whether Pucar and the present congregation council will have three or four years, or whether we will take this to another leadership and so on. So once again, I appeal to them to do so, to have the combined list call its mayor at least to consider this move. I think they'll be able to solve the problem that we're dealing with right now in this National Assembly. Personally, I think this is also due to the fact that the ministry, formerly and present, is late. It is very late to take into account the decisions of the Constitutional Court. This error and these obviouss, including this discussion, should in particular be a negative sign to the government because it has not been able to solve this problem in this rather long period. If we were to discuss this constitutional decision and take it into account in the formation of the new congregations and the congregation of Koper, I am sure we would not be talking about it today. So we absolutely wouldn't talk because there wouldn't be any need. Thus this delay is now overtaken by the National Assembly, and again we bear the responsibility of someone who has been obliged to do this to this day. Again, consider the appeal, the call, the resignation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u73	Replica, Mr. Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u74	Perhaps we will consider the appeal of my colleague Rupar when he does, and if he does, the amendment will be adopted. If our amendment is not adopted, then it is irrelevant, since the term of office will end in November or we will go to the elections. I would only tell my colleague, Rupar, that the mandate that the previous administration was supposed to eat was extended by a decision of the Constitutional Court. You know, if we didn't adopt the law on the invitation to regular local elections in the municipality of Koper, it probably wouldn't be Mayor Pucer today, but Mrs Irena Fister, because that mandate was no longer restricted. Of course, we had to cut it this way. All the rules are known how and when a mandate is terminated, in the National Assembly, in municipal councils. That's all clear. When someone gives up, when someone gets sick, someone dies, whatever. In our case, if there had been a territorial transformation of the congregation, the mandate would have ended. I was just warning you that didn't happen. And since this has not happened, we have introduced, of course, a new criterion with the solution of the government, that the National Assembly should decide to hold simultaneous elections throughout the country. From this title, it does not matter how long that mandate lasts, but it is terminated at that time. That's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Jerovšek, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u76	The appeal filed by my colleague, Rupar, I'm joining in because I've given a similar one before. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u77	It's a replica, isn't it?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u78	a similar appeal for the resignation of the Mayor of the Municipality of Koper. [[...]] I repeat it and give it before you, fellow Members. I think it is insurmountable that the seat of the Mayor of the Municipality of Koper is occupied by someone who, at the time of the election campaign here after Ljubljana, demonstrated under the slogan "when I will be great, I will be the customs officer in the Black Kal", which is the claim for the non-English status of the municipality of Koper. It would be high time for someone taking such a stand against Slovenian positions to stand down. I am sure that he was first elected by the votes of Slovenian voters. He also demonstrated his anti-Slovakia attitude when signing a contract for the transfer of the bank to the Italian hands with a broad smile, what a pleasure it was to see this happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u79	Let's stick to the subject, please. Let's stick to the subject, let's not spread the debates to other areas, because I will no longer allow the debates going beyond the framework. Mr. Battelli, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you. A replica in the sense of explaining it to Mr Jerovska.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u81	No, a replica is a replica, you know, a replica is an objection.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u82	Explanation. The rules of procedure state that this is an explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u83	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you. Yes, customs officers on the Black Kale - this started when also from these benches began to insult Koper and Koprečana in a way that was completely unworthy. This then triggered what was, as I would say, very infantile and so on changed into such a password. Also because there are no road connections, railways and so on, because the Korpjans were insulted at all times and, in fact, as I would say, with the support of strong state institutions, it was impossible for them to regulate their affairs normally in the field of local self-government. If this is not done, it can result in a rebellion of this kind. If Koper is not treated as an integral part of this country, then Koper can react that way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u85	I don't think it's necessary to continue this debate anymore because it doesn't belong in this framework. I am closing the debate on the amendments and the article, which is Article 15 to make it clear to all. So here we have two amendments and we are moving on to a decision on these two amendments. We shall first vote on the amendment under order number one. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 49 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote, please. Of the 55 present, 12 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on Article 15 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 53 present, 49 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] The Article has been adopted. We're at Article 16. We only have one amendment here. The amendment under order number 2 is immaterial. I am opening a debate on the amendment and the article. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to Article 16. Let's vote, please. Of the 48 present, 40 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against three.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 16 as a whole. Let's vote. Of the 49 present, 39 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] Article 16 is adopted. We have therefore held a debate and a decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote, please. Of the 50 present, 44 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. Let's vote, please. Of the 52 present, 46 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] The title is accepted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I ask whether qualified applicants want to table an amendment. Please, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you. On behalf of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party, I ask and propose an end to this point in order to be able to prepare amendments. This interruption should take at least 2 hours. I suggest, if possible, that we begin the third hearing at the afternoon session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u87	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we can serve this initiative. At this point, we would break the point, and at 2.30 p.m. we would continue with this point, which is the third treatment. Now we're moving to the next item in the agenda, that's 4. Agenda item, Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Loves, Summary Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm moving to first reading. I'm asking the government representative if he wants a word. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is proposing a shorter procedure for the law amending and supplementing the law on local elections because it is less difficult to amend and supplement this law, especially because it is a matter of alignment with the legal order of the European Union. In particular, I would like to point out that this law is linked to the law that we have just dealt with, this is the law on local self-government, because both are the legal basis for the implementation of local elections in 2002. The essence of the novelty that we propose with some other minor amendments to this law is the alignment with the legal order of the European Union in the work that has also been the subject of negotiating grounds for the area: the free movement of persons. There we undertook to regulate the conditions for the exercise of electoral rights and also the right to run for local elections for citizens of the Union residing in a Member State, but they are not citizens of the Union. This issue is also regulated by Council of Europe Directive 94/80 of 19 December 1994. The proposer proposes a broader regime than that, which means that the right to vote, to participate in local elections, does not apply only to members of the European Union, but also to foreigners, that is to say to those citizens who come from countries not members of the European Union, that they may be elected to municipal councils and that they may be elected to the municipal elections and that they may not be elected mayor. In short, regarding the mayoral elections they have only active but not passive electoral rights. I would say that we have taken similar legislation into account in other European countries and that this decision on the extension from citizens and citizens of the European Union to foreigners is not conditional on Slovenia's entry into the European Union, but rather political level, political culture in a country. In doing so, we leaned on a comparative review of countries, which, by contrast, define the conditions for the granting of this right, the conditions in terms of the duration of permanent residence or the length which is the condition for obtaining permanent residence, and we also followed these comparative arrangements. So much for that. In addition to this most important change or addition, some are proposed. Among the most important of these others, only the number of those elected on the basis of general electoral law is taken into account for the distinction between the use of a majority and a proportional system in elections to municipal councils. This means that the members of the Council elected by special electoral law, Hungary, Italy, Roma, do not count in this delimitation. The second of the major changes in this group concerns the determination of the consideration of preferential votes in proportional elections. In view of the debate in the National Assembly, the applicant has determined that this issue needs to be settled in the light of the debate on the so-called Kramberger Act, an absolute consideration of the preferred votes. However, this is a matter of political judgement, including achieving a political consensus on how much weight, how much weight, how much weight to give to the preferred vote. We would not oppose the amendment adopted by the Internal Policy Committee in this regard. This amendment states that the condition should be one third of the preferred votes cast by all votes and 15% of the votes voted by each candidate. This is one of the possible thresholds, of course any other consensus on this is possible. I would just like to say that the proposaler does not insist on a firm position in the text, which is that it is an absolute consideration of the preferential votes, and he is prepared to adopt another such solution. We insist that this issue be resolved because this is what this national assembly has imposed. We now have an opportunity to address the issue of preferential vote. A few more changes regarding the law on local elections should only be made by titles to refresh your memory. Article 9 provides that the President of the municipal electoral commission, his deputy, may be judges or only persons with legal education. Article 13 prevents the possibility of post-nomination of candidates in electorate assemblies. Article 22 redefines the number of voters in relation to the population needed to determine the mayor's candidacy by the electorate group. Article 23 provides that the second round of mayoral elections shall be signed by the Republic Election Commission and not by the municipal election commission. Then there are some minor changes, from the use of lots to the indication of the names of candidates, candidates, the vote for municipal elections, to the setting of time limits and so on. In short, there are some technical details and also the elimination of the conflict between the law on local elections and the law on local self-government. This is a regulation that we need to adopt in connection with this year's local elections, which is also bound by the law on amendments and additions to the law on local self-government. I suggest that the National Assembly accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u89	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee to present the opinion of the Committee. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you so much for saying that. So I don't think it's necessary to present the report specifically. I would just say that in the debate that was on the committee, the greatest weight or the greatest emphasis was on the amendments to Article 4, i.e. the current 18th section of the Local Elections Act, which governs the preferential vote. The general conclusion was that the current regulation was wrong because it was actually something, "science fiction", to put it this way, some utopian idea that was not feasible in practice. However, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u91	Excuse me, Mr Lavrinc, can I please go to the left here, gentlemen of the government coalition, Mr Anderlič, Mr Potrč, this will not go on. This is the chairman of the committee. Please excuse me for interrupting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you very much. So the discussion was mainly about how and how to ensure that, if we have this option, the possibility of giving a preferential vote would exercise this right. Of this, it is from the idea that Article 18 is now deleted from the current law, and from the idea that, as was first offered, we would have an absolute preferred vote. The Committee proposed what it proposed in its amendment after the majority system, but I am sure that this amendment will also be critical in the debate. The Committee proposes to the National Assembly that, following a reduced procedure, the law should be adopted together with the amendments it has opened or proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Mr Pece, on behalf of the Slovenian national party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u94	On the basis of the report of the Committee on Internal Policy and on the basis of the implementation of the Chairman of the Committee, it was or was evident that the main debate on the law on amendments and additions to the law on local elections was mainly about weights or questions of preferential vote. In this way, I think that the mother's working body has shown only and only the political interest of individual parties in the issue of the law on local elections and not what should actually be. The Local Elections Act should basically require us to take an interest in as high-quality as possible in local community bodies and not how political parties will share their seats on the basis of the votes they have received. I think the topic on the committee has been misrepresented, but of course this is the autonomous right of the chairman of the committee and the members of the committee to show interest only in the part that actually concerns politicians only. In view of the fact that there is a presentation of the groups at this time, I will touch on the point in Explanatory 2.1 and in part 2.3, it is boring, that is, the preferred votes, only by word or sentence. Point 2.1 on the eighth page of the Rapporteur states: "The Council of Europe Directive requires citizens of the EU..." I must point out from this point of view that there is only one legal act within the institutions of the European Union, that the committees of Parliament, the Council of Europe, which has the power to bind all members, I emphasise the members, Slovenia is not a member, the Republic of Slovenia is not a member of the European Union. That act is not a directive, but a regulation. If any of the decisions in the first pillar of the European Union, where the European Communities are with their institutions, touch all areas of the European Union, they may be the larger regulation, not the directive. Hence, in the first sentence, the material manufacturer’s error. On the other hand, it is important to say that Slovenia is not yet - and I sincerely hope that it will not soon be - a full member of the European Union and would also require more time for us under the Association Agreement on this matter, and not like the other laws in this area, to deal with them in a reduced manner. While the Minister also said in his opening speech that this is essentially a matter of civil, cultural and political standards, or of political judgement, whether we will give the local community authorities the opportunity of active and passive rights to foreigners, not only to those coming from the European Union, but also to all others. In my personal opinion, in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, this National Assembly should be particularly concerned about the conduct of elections to local authorities, most in the municipal council, especially under the criteria of quality and the possibility of equal representation for Slovenian citizens, or in a group of political party proponents, with a qualified number of signatories, or in any other way. But it seems completely unacceptable to us that the purpose of local self-government will be to destroy when we are in these organs, for example. to the municipal council, which, under the law on local self-government, is the highest authority within all rights and decisions, has released foreign nationals or foreigners who have not lived with each local community for a long time, especially if we are aware of what the tasks of municipal councils are. It is an infrastructure issue, a municipal issue, an environmental issue, a budget issue, a financing issue. How can someone who has not lived with this local community be confident? It is our personal conviction, or our belief, that it is the wrong functioning of the government, with only one and only one purpose: to be kind to Europe. To be even more than kind, because we give the right not only to members or citizens of the European Union or to the European Community, however you wish, but we are spreading, we are spreading the foreign influence on the development of local communities, all 192 local communities. Even those who have no connection or connection to political lobbying in the European Union. We find this additional right, in which no one actually compels us, ridiculous and will also be the ridiculous final decision of the National Assembly, which I have no doubt will support this law, of course without the votes of the Slovenian National Party. I am afraid that this time the only three of us, members of the Slovenian National Party at this time, will be present, so much so as to safeguard the interests of local communities, local authorities. Ladies and gentlemen! With the provisions of Explanatory 2.1, therefore, the electoral rights of foreigners, the addition of Articles 5, 8, 103, we will or will destroy the basic purpose of local self-government. This is to ensure a better quality of life in local community bodies. Since I have said that I will only touch with a sentence those preferred votes that have been given a significant weight by the Internal Policy Committee, all I have to say is that I am pleased that this time the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has acknowledged that the local elections carried out on the basis of the existing laws, namely the 1994 local elections and the 1998 local elections, have been presented to people, and that, finally, before the third local elections or the third local elections, the government has recognised that in the previous two there was no personal note or personal weight of the candidate and the possibility of his choice. We will not support the draft law, in particular due to the point of voting rights or solely due to the point of voting rights of foreigners in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you. Mrs Zupanova, Nova Slovenije has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, the House of Respect! It is true that the government is in a hurry to adopt this law. It needs to be brought into line with the acquis of the European Union. This is about regulating the conditions for the exercise of electoral rights in the local elections of citizens of the European Union residing in Slovenia, but they are not our citizens, but of course because of compliance with the relevant laws, because local elections are already at the door. A major change is that foreigners are allowed to vote in local elections and also to run for municipal councillors, and only Slovenian citizens can continue to run for mayors. This is justified by the government's alignment with the acquis of the European Union, which is only partly true. The Directive requires only active electoral rights, and only for the citizens of the European Union. With regard to passive electoral rights, however, the directive allows for a derogation from the leading executive functions. The Government is generous in the allocation of electoral rights, which is one of the fundamental civil rights which, by definition, belong only to citizens, is justified by Article 43 of the Constitution. This Article, in the third paragraph, provides that the law may determine in which cases and under what conditions foreign voters have the right to vote; when and why such provisions are adopted is certainly a political decision. The fact is that our country could only grant electoral rights to citizens of the European Union when Slovenia enters the European Union. We can say that the government shares rights in advance before it is necessary. However, we believe that in this case, there would be no election in the autumn elections for about 13,000 foreigners who are not from the European Union but live in Slovenia. With the amendment tabled, we want only the citizens of the European Union to have the right to vote in local elections. The bill seeks to remedy some other shortcomings, such as the call for early local elections. The Law on Local Self-Government also provides that the State Assembly, if dissolved by the municipal council, shall also call for early elections. The Local Elections Act, however, provides for the mayor to sign the early elections. The proposal for amendments regulates this discrepancy by stipulating that, if at the same time the majority of members of the municipal council resign, the municipal election committee shall call for early elections. We believe that such a solution would be a better solution to the disagreement between the two arrangements whereby early elections could still be called by the mayor, but if this were to be resolved, the municipal electoral commission would call. In this respect, we are also proposing an amendment. With regard to the replacement in the proportional elections of an elected member of the municipal council, the situation that a member of the municipal council has terminated his term of office and no candidate on the same list refuses to accept office, the law on local elections provides for the holding of alternate elections. However, the Local Self-Government Act provides that such a member shall be replaced by another candidate. The bill removes this conflict by stipulating: "If a candidate who has become a member of the municipal council after a replacement election for the remainder of the term of office does not notify within eight days that he is taking office, this right shall be transferred to the next candidate from the same list of candidates. If there is no such candidate, he shall be replaced by a candidate on the same list in the electoral unit in which the list had the largest remaining vote in relation to the electoral officer." In particular, this law has not been consulted by the local community, although it deals with certain amendments, in particular concerning preferential votes, which in practice do not constitute an adjustment to the order of candidates on the list. We also discussed this a lot on the parental committee. The proposer wanted to achieve a better solution with the amendment on the legislative quorum of the number of voters. Personalisation of the electoral system based on the preferred vote is also supposed to be the principle of the majority electoral system. Does the proposer really think so because we know how the majority system was destroyed and played? Does the preferred vote really give the best opportunity for pluralisation or dispersion of votes in the municipal council and the right response to the Government's decision on the equal representation of all the municipalities in the municipal world? What is the right formula and whether voters accept such a solution, practice will show. However, it also shows that electoral techniques, electoral material, the calculation of mandates and the similarity of many and many problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, DeSUS, has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister and colleagues and colleagues! However, in our Group of Members, I will leave any kind of speech and delaying this problem. We have before us a proposal to amend the electoral law for local elections or elections to local self-government. I'll focus on three things. The first is in Article 1, paragraph 2, which states that foreigners or EU members with permanent or longer-standing residence in Slovenia have the right to vote. We have already opposed citizenship and justice, because we believe that the matter is ours. As long as we are not in the EU, let others not frame us for our national unity, freedom, decision-making and should not affect our decisions or should not have the right to co-decision. The main problem is: Who can write today that we will be really in 2004, as planned in these elections, in the European Union? If they gave me such a guarantee, they would eventually agree with this in our parliamentary group. As long as there is no such guarantee, we believe that this paragraph should enter into force when Slovenia is in the European Union. If I focus on the second issue, Article 4, because we are talking about the preferred voice and because we are talking or because we already have various amendments on the table. Our position is as follows. If we want to bring democracy and democratic decision-making closer to citizens in local self-government, then we must also give them this opportunity in a preferred voice. So far, 50 % of the vote has made it possible, in a very practical and theoretical way, for the entire list, if we are talking about city councils that have even 45 members, or the municipal councils with a lower number of members, to allow for the election of only one. There was no case in previous elections that anyone in Slovenia would be elected in this way. Therefore, in our parliamentary group, when we have listened to the voter opinion, at least those who are moving a lot and talking to citizens and citizens, we have reached the next conclusion. The voters say so. On this list, I don't care about the first, second, or third, which city doesn't like it for these or other moral or other reasons, so I'm just not going to vote on this list. But I would have preferred to have the opportunity to choose from this list of those in whom I have great confidence. Firstly, because he went to this list of political parties, because I like this political option or prevents me from ensuring that those interests, which are also my interests, are met, I am prepared to give my preferred voice to the one I have the greatest confidence in, no matter where the list is located. On the other hand, we agree that there can be only one preferred voice on the list. We do not agree with any threshold. For rumours, let them not be spoken in a bad sense, among the electors are the following. The first or second, if the list is received, I will theoretically say, only two mandates will be these two until the death of the councilman, because it always puts them in the first and second places for such or other reasons. Why don't we give the voter a chance to make a decision without regard, we don't take the argument, yes, the list, the client must know who he has the most confidence in, so he puts it in the first, second, third, fourth, and so on, counting to get so many mandates. I therefore conclude that we will not vote for any amendment that amends the basic text of the proposal to make the preferred vote valid, as set out in the basic proposal. Our third point relates to Article 26, because, if you look at it in particular, the award for certain electoral commission officials, committees and so on. We do not agree and stress, consider, colleagues and colleagues, why this reward, more to say, would not pay the income. Why not? Are we unequal members? Will we again make such exceptions in the National Assembly? Before the law, let us all be equal before the constitution, as it is written, and therefore let everyone pay that income also from certain compensations or such or other incomes. We believe that we will soon have a budget rebalancing - because I have already pointed out on behalf of the parliamentary group that we must watch not only how we are spending but also how we will fill this budget. That is to say, we cannot agree with the unequality of not paying income from these rewards or benefits. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Štemberger, Young People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. In the Youth Slovenia Party, we support most of the proposed amendments to the Local Elections Act, which we align with the acquis of the European Union. However, since in the practice of applying the law on local elections in recent years, in particular in the work that determines the impact of preferential votes on the outcome of proportional elections, it has been shown that these provisions are urgently needed to correct, in the Party of Young Slovenia we believe that it is necessary to do so in this amendment of the law. The proposer decided to extend the Council of Europe directive, which provides that citizens of the European Union who have permanent residence in another Member State must also have an active electoral right in local elections to all other foreigners who have permanent residence in Slovenia. The decision that foreigners with permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia will have an active and passive electoral right in local elections, except in the mayor's elections, where they should have only an active electoral right, we support the Party of Youth Slovenia, because we believe that the basic task of each young democracy is to achieve the highest possible degree of political culture and democracy and that it is right to stand by the introduction of this right by the majority of the Member States of the European Union, which already allow this right to foreigners. As I mentioned in the introduction, in the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that it is imperative to amend the provisions of the law which define the consideration of preferential votes in proportional elections in municipal councils, since the provisions of the current law have in practice completely prevented the impact of preferential votes on the election of candidates, as shown by the fact that no candidate has been elected so far. In the Young Slovenia Party, we will therefore support the proposal by the amendment of the parent working body, which, in our opinion, represents the best compromise in finding a solution to increase the impact of preferred votes. The third threshold for the consideration of preferential votes is significantly lower than the current one, and it is also acceptable to estimate the limit of 15% of the vote as a condition for the candidate to be able to pass on the party’s designated candidate list. With this amendment, we will also allow those extremely good candidates who are low on the client list to be elected. According to our assessment, the proposed amendment still satisfactorily allows for a priority order of candidates preferred by the party within the framework of party democracy. In short, in the Youth Slovenia Party, we will support the proposal for amendments to the law, including the addition of the parent's working body to the fourth article. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. These were presentations of the views of the parliamentary groups, I do not have written applications for the debate, so we will limit all further discussions to five minutes. Mr. Lavrinc signed in first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much. In the first part, this will explain a little, i.e., from the side or from the mouth of Mr Pečet, I heard some delusional fears that were not present at the meeting, so of course I could not report them. Indeed, the articles mentioned here as controversial for the Slovenian National Party were not, of course, a word on the Committee. That's the first one. Secondly, I will say that sometimes, not only do I have a hard time listening, but I simply cannot believe that I am in the Slovenian Parliament on such statements, and these have become more and more lately. I'd say that. So, civilisation, dear gentlemen of the Slovenian National Party, has not stopped in the family community, but is moving on. And people -- I'm saying, with a big start -- people who live here, they create here, they pay taxes here, they have kids and so on, according to our version, of course not, they decide local matters. Dear gentlemen, read article 21 of the Law on Local Self-Government and see what we should decide. Don't be mad that they're going to run this country now, run the nation and stuff like that. That's, I lose control when that's how these things are represented. I'd say that myself. I tabled an amendment myself, but, of course, later, when the committee had already held a meeting and that is why we were unable to deal with it. I know enough from close to how municipal election committees and electoral committees work and so on. That's where the main weight is actually taken by the secretary, and he has the most work, and we all know that. And now it's settled here so, there. That's why I simply suggested that you be there when you talk about awards, that you add more secretaries to them, and that I think they do most of the work. And there's something else about awards. Why can't you get judges where the judges are? Because it's tied to the mayor's salary. But the salaries of the court are far higher and, of course, the matter is debated in this case. With regard to Article 4 or this preferred vote. This will never be good for anyone because it goes so far as to have small congregations here, they are central congregations, and they are large congregations. In large congregations and where, of course, they have not worked hard, they have done as much as comparable electoral thefts of course, this thing is "swift". There, too, I would say, if we write five percent like this first threshold, it's too much because there are thousands of votes. For small congregations, of course, this is too much, for then, indeed, one family chooses someone. Why this weighting anyway? This should be said because, on the one hand, it is a fear that a party on the ground would literally break up in such a case, because those who are more decent and are usually there than in the first places would not, for example, come into the congregation’s council for the sake of preference, so that we get someone third. On the other hand, it is again such that in one way it is only necessary to prevent what has happened now from being dragged by different - and here there was no difference - sportsmen, doctors, I don't know everything; in short, people who have great reputation and did not gain it in politics, of course they have invited votes. But the guarantee was if you put them in the last place so they wouldn't be elected. I had a case like this myself in Kamnik, and I know what it looked like. So for that, of course, I will take, I support, now I have seen, here on the table came an even better proposal, as far as Article 4 is concerned. They signed it, I think it's first-signed Tone Anderlich; and I also appeal to others to think in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u103	Replica, Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will replicate to Mr Lavrinc, who does not understand that there is a Slovenian state here and that in Slovenia the Slovenians should first live and stay and create and use those created gifts for their own benefit and for their own good, but not to go here to a social state where we will draw in from all ends and places of anyone. Indeed, the fact is that when he spoke of Mr Pečet's "loof fears", I would say that if there is something "loose" by which party, it is certainly the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia and at the same time the United List and especially the Minister who speaks, Mr Minister of the Interior, Rado Bohinc, who wants to bring in 83,000 new voters who are currently foreigners in Slovenia through this law and who will then vote for the United List. Of course, 83,000 voters bring nine new MPs. And that's the only wish Mr. Minister wants to bring through this marriage. It is clear, however, that the Liberal Democracy supports this, because this will bring in more and more people in coalition matters. Because the local elections will not stop, the local elections are a start, and the national elections will continue later. The fact is that if we join the European Union and allow members of the European Union or citizens of countries from the European Union to have electoral rights with us, be assured that Europe will not give the Slovenians the right to vote in Germany, Italy, Austria or elsewhere. But well, if you're kneeling like that, you don't have to keep kneeling. But that any Chinese who comes to Slovenia in black will be given the right to vote. You're going to be in Europe by your fingertips. And one more thing. Yesterday you spoke about some strange intentions of the Slovenian National Party, but I would have warned you about yesterday's debate, about the Gypsy and about the Roma. I will tell you that the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language does not know the word "Rom" and uses the framework as the word "rom". But it says under the definition of "gypsy", under 1, it says: members from India of the immigrant people, usually without a permanent residence; and as a 2, mean, cunning, mindless or malpractice person. However, the Slovenian dictionary defines it this way. I know, gentlemen of the Liberal Democracy to do everything they can to please certain and certain people, but this does not mean that the Slovenian people, the Slovenian language and the intentions of those Slovenian citizens who were willing to fight for Slovenia, fought and were ready. Not like most LDS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u105	Mr. Jelinczych! That's all I can say is that the gypsy baron is opera. In our constitution, however, the term Roma is used. That was the basis for my remark yesterday. Mr. Lavrinc has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u106	It is clear that Mr Jelinčič has come from somewhere and has no idea that we are in the law on local elections. We are not talking about the state elections, and that is why the insults and instigations at the expense of the Minister and his wishes for the United List were unfounded. With regard to the likeness or strong desire for the likeness of the Liberal Democracy, this. Mr Jelinčič, we will never run so humbly for a variety of newly elected officials, as this is happening to you abroad, yet you are against NATO. I'll say one more thing. This is about those who have permanent residence. Those who repeat some things now, even stupid things, if you want to, I tell you: it's about people we have written to them by the procedure we have written, and it's not so la-la-la, but it's hard enough to let them live among us, to work, to have children, to have families and so on. It's about you. And not here to wet the nonsense. Secondly, tragedy is, if there are so many people - what he used to make the situation worse, Mr Jelinčič. If there are so many thousands of people among us who do not have an orderly status, let us be ashamed. Let me just say, we'll be ashamed. If we were not able to handle these things, we could be ashamed. If they're here, they live here, they work here, they have families, they're people. Then it must be arranged as it should be. But if they came to us illegally, that's another story, other jobs, other procedures, and so on. And not to mix these things up all the time when it suits someone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u107	Thank you. Before I give the floor, I would just like to point out that we are at first reading and that at first reading we are talking about the objectives of the law, that I am not explaining now again. Mr. Jelinčič has the replica and then Mr. Pece.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I'd warn Mr. Lavrintz that he was a bad listener. If I'd listened, I'd have known I said it would start in the local elections and continue with the national elections. Perhaps Mr Lavrinc understands only the first half of the sentence, because he does not understand the others, because perhaps the sentence is too long, I will try and use shorter sentences, Mr Lavrinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u109	No offense, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u110	I'm not sorry, Mr. Vice President. I don't regret it. That's what I'm talking [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u111	That's my call.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you. I think he understands the shorter sentences. The fact is that 83,000 citizens have permanent residence in Slovenia and want to have citizenship, and now we will give them the right to vote. It's not happening anywhere in the world. There are obstacles around the world, and if he doesn't believe, I don't know where Mr Lavrinc has heard that we are following some officials abroad. Is this where he thinks if some LDS guy runs across the border, he wants to turn himself in there to catch him and get us? I don't know. However, it is a fact that no country does so. No country in the world does that. We're the only one. Go look at the European documents, go look at the non-European documents, there is no such thing anywhere in the world. Europe requires restraint and greater control, especially in relation to this counter-terrorism fight, which the Liberal Democracy so much wants and joins. Regarding those whom Mr Lavrinc says should be ashamed of us because they are staying in Slovenia and because they have nothing to do, I suggest that Mr Lavrinc take some of these people to his home, but they will not run around Slovenia and live better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u113	Mr. Pache, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thanks again for saying that. Mr. Lavrinz, you're talking nonsense. Mr Lavrinc, if it is foolishness for you to keep Slovenia and Slovenia, then we also accept the word'stupidity'. However, we are convinced that this preservation of Slovenia should be the basic motto of every Member and not in return for its own privileges within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, or because of its sense of importance, he would be willing to sell local self-government and thus functions arising from local self-government. You're talking about "loose fears." Yes, I am personally afraid that if we adopt a law such as the one that gives the right to vote and be loved by foreigners to all, not just members of the European Union, even those outside, we will thereby destroy the purpose of local self-government. What are the tasks of local self-government, look at you, and who is capable of fulfilling them - those who know the problems of local self-government. You do not now rely on those few "poor people" in your opinion, otherwise very rich, usually members of your party that you want to bring into decision-making in this way, the local community authorities. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not want to simply assume these responsibilities for the destruction and inadequacy of local authorities, in particular in terms of corruption. That is why we oppose this and only kindly ask you to reconsider whether it is a meaningful and passive election right to give to foreigners, with problems such as those of local communities. That's all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you. There's also Mrs. Potrate's replica. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you for your word. Although I am sure that I will deserve a note or a warning from the chairman, I still have to replicate my respectable colleague Jelinčič, who on various occasions likes to refer to the Dictionary of Slovenian Book Language. It is good to know which part of the vocabulary of the Slovenian language includes this dictionary. I'm sure you're looking for your own names in it for free, so there's no word "Rom" for the designation of a member of the nation or nationality. Let me also point out that the difference between "Jew" and "Jew", which we both use in Slovenian, can only be sought as an explanation for a member of the faith, not for a member of a national community. But I'm not going to go into explaining the difference between "gypsy" and "Rom". It's a debilitating sign of the use of gypsy. Members of the Roma community point out that this is bad for them, but I speak from the experience of the frequent use of the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, and let me add that Mr Jelinčič will not find Slovenia in the Dictionary of the Slovenian Book Language, but only as a tool. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you. Your expectations won't come true. Mr. Jelinčich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Once again, a respected colleague from the United Nations would say that we have two definitions when it comes to the word "gypsy". She's the one who said otherwise. The first, however, says "a member from India of the immigrant people, usually without a permanent residence". There's something else I'd like to tell her. Given that Slovenia is not in this language, or then we can expect a respected colleague on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats, with the help of their spokesman, Mr Krivica, to propose that Slovenia be deleted even from the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u119	I think this debate is out of the question. Sorry, that doesn't make any sense! We're talking about a whole other thing right now. Mr Sok has been waiting for the debate for some time. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. Black are interesting and interesting to listen to, for one learns what is not written in different literature. So, I'd like to discuss Article 4. So the government has proposed that the current law be amended to be valid if I properly understand this dictatorship and this proposal from the government, so that any preferred vote can decide on election. I would like to point out that we actually have a multilateral system in this country and therefore political parties. Political parties are those who propose lists at local elections and it is usually so that the party tops the list, I would say, its most active members and at the end of the list the less active ones. However, if I look at this government proposal, it is so that after this proposal the list could get 100 votes together and someone would get one preferred vote and then they would be elected to the municipal council. So, to me, of course, such a solution seems extremely controversial. If you wanted to make these proposals, I would say, somehow bring into this system of local elections a majority electoral system, then you actually had this opportunity. The Constitutional Court ordered Parliament to take a stand against the majority electoral system, and you did not want to do so at the time. So now to change in this way and to seek some form of majority electoral system, I just don't think it's wise. For this reason, I think, of course, the amendment of the parent working body is better, but it is extremely complicated. I don't know how we're going to explain to our voters that their preferred vote will be announced if one third of this is decided and if then, I don't know, the individual gets 15% of all the votes received by a single sheet. I don't know. It seems to me that this is extremely complicated and difficult to explain. It was much better now, of course, when this option was preferable when we could tell the voters: if someone gets one vote more than half, according to the number received by the whole list, the one is chosen, not the first one from the list. So far, this system has been in place. This is, of course, such a proposal by the parent working body, a correction in lowering the number of preferred votes, but it is extremely complicated. So, if I had this option myself, I would suggest that by the third hearing this matter could somehow be written down more easily so that people would understand what it is. For most people today, even though we have this multi-party system for ten years, do not imagine and understand what this preferred vote should be. Then see, in Article 9, I would like to point out that we have so far written in the law that the President of the Electoral Commission is preferably from among the judges or other graduates. Now that's being deleted. I would like to ask if you have checked the possibility that it might happen that in any of the Slovenian municipalities, I do not know, I would not like to list, but we have very small municipalities, Solčava, Odoš and so on, whether we could not appoint the President of the Electoral Commission at all. I don't know if they might have a judge or a lawyer. I also do not understand why the municipal electoral commission should appoint a secretary on a proposal from the municipal administration. I don't think that's a good solution. So far, we have had a solution such that the municipal electoral commission appoints a secretary from among the members of the municipal administration and this was a relatively good solution. Now this is supposed to change and the municipal administration of the municipal electoral commission should propose to whom it should appoint as secretary. What if the municipal electoral commission doesn't want to do that? So here we can come up with some solutions that will not be implemented in practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich has the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. I repeat to the distinguished Mr Sok in the first part of his implementation. The point of a preferential voice is to look a little closer at what it is to read, but there is nothing wrong with letting people explain themselves here in the national assembly if they do not understand anything. The essence of the problem is precisely what this amendment is supposed to complicate to make it simple, and let me be forgiven by this term, the electorate, will not deepen into electoral legislation into detail and into theory and practice, but if we adopt the basic text of the law, it would be clear to every electorate that if he wants to elect a party, surround that party, that number that he believes is closest to him or that his political option. However, the preferred vote will only have the opportunity to give one of the lists he has elected and we cannot take them, but we certainly have the right to an absurd theoretical problem and it is not entirely logical that someone is stating that the list has received 100 votes and one of these lists has one preferred vote to be elected. Firstly, the list must receive sufficient votes under the proportional system to reach the mandate at all. She will receive as many mandates as this proportion is prescribed under the electoral law, and on the other hand, if the list is to be set up - for example, we are speaking only of one case where 20 municipal councillors, 20 candidates, are elected, and each of these candidates will do an ad for himself if he wants to be elected. For, as was the case with the previous debate, there are many names on his list known, important names to gather political votes for the list, but they have neither the slightest desire nor the intention to be elected at all. That's why they're going to the end of this list, just to help raise votes. However, the preferred vote in the election propaganda will give those weapons to the electorate and the candidates to say: for this programme I will stand by - if we talk about local elections, which is the subject of today's debate, we know that, something has been said: for social, for kindergarten, for the rest of it, for the second, for the municipality, for infrastructure that is closest to the citizens. Those in whom they have the greatest confidence will be surrounded, and do not be afraid that someone will be surrounded by just one but will come to the congregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u123	I warn both gentlemen that this belongs to the second reading, not the first. Please, Mr. Sok, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u124	Well, first of all, I'd like to thank Mr. Kebrich for teaching me a lot. Of course, I didn't know what he was talking about. So I thank him for explaining to me what a preferred voice means. But in the marriage that is before us on the table, of course, in the first reading, that's exactly what it says. If the list gets 100 votes, of course, it has to be enough for one term. And one of these leaves is going to get, say, just one preferred vote, then he's going to be elected. And if he does run on the list for this reason that you mentioned, and he will say, "I don't want to be elected, but I want to help this political party, put me in the last place." So such a proposal, of course, means introducing some principle of the socialist union of the working people and introducing confusion into the electoral system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u125	We are now in this debate, at first reading of the law, trying to determine whether we can move forward or not. Mr. Minister, do you want a word or can we somehow finish this part? Please. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u126	If you'll allow me just one sentence. Besides, my friend Jelinčič is not here right now. I wanted to deny two of his judgments most decisively, his claim. I think it's right that I do this so it doesn't hang in the air, and maybe it would inspire someone with doubt that at least a little bit of truth is what he said. The first inaccuracies are this, linked to his surprising statement that the proposal is only caused by the political interests of one party. This priority cannot be true because such a proposal, not only would it be completely undemocratic, but it would not have any chance of success. But this claim is linked to another non-truth, which is that in no country in the world do foreigners have electoral rights in local elections. The truth is the opposite. We have produced an analysis of all European countries, and here I have information for 12 countries in which foreign voters have electoral rights under very different conditions. This electoral right is linked to a certain period of residence or residence status granted to them by the State. For Slovenia, as Members are likely to know, eight-year stay with temporary residence status is a condition for obtaining permanent residence. However, permanent residence, according to our proposal today, is a condition for obtaining electoral rights. In 12 European countries, as far as we have analysed them, these conditions are moving to a much lower level as regards this time condition. They move between two, three, up to five years. This means that Slovenia has set a relatively high threshold of 8 years, which is a condition, from temporary to permanent residence, for obtaining electoral rights. Of course, gaining the right to vote for foreigners is a civil, cultural and political issue and has nothing to do with the current short-term partial political interests of one party. Let's keep it that way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Since no one wants to say another word, I am concluding a general debate. We'll pick it up at 2.30.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u128	Your Honor! We're starting the afternoon session. I inform you that they are further excused for the continuation of the 16th session on 29.5.2002 Miran Ptrč from 17.00 to 17.30 p.m. and Branko Kelemin for the afternoon part of the session. Since we're going to be present, I'd like to ask your attention. We're picking up the presence in the hall! There are 46 of us present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. In this morning's work, Dr Brejc, as chairman of the Social Democratic Party Group's proposal, took a decision and also announced that at 2.30 p.m., at the beginning of the afternoon session, we will continue, at the proposal of the Group of Members, with the third reading of the third item of the agenda, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Local Self-Government. Since qualified applicants wanted a break and time to prepare the amendments in the third reading Mr. Sušnik, have you tabled the amendments? [[...]] Right now. We don't have them on the bench. That is why we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. We'll get the amendments on the bench any minute. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? No, that is why we will wait for the amendments tabled by the Socialist Party's Group of Members in the third reading. Your Honor! Since the apparent copying of a number of amendments tabled by the parliamentary group will take longer, they will be filed at 2.30 p.m. and therefore we do not have them on the bench. If you agree, we would continue the second reading of the broken 4th item of the agenda and, of course, also complete the 3rd item so that we do not needlessly delay. Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to the second reading of the 4th item on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We will vote on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 45 votes against four. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are therefore moving on to a debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 22.5.2002, and on the bench you also have an amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 4, of which there are four groups of Members. I therefore put Article 1 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 1 into the debate. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u129	Thank you very much. I would like to discuss Article 1 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members proposing that the word "foreigners" be deleted and replaced by the words "nationals of the Member States of the European Union". We're at this point, aren't we? [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] [[...]] In doing so, I would point out that the Council of Europe Directive requires that citizens of the European Union who have permanent residence in another Member State be granted an active electoral right at local elections. The government, however, says that this is a question of civil, cultural and political standards, or political judgement, and is therefore going through this directive and, of course, gives all foreigners this opportunity. I'd like to ask you a question, and if possible, I'd like to know if I can get an answer right away. Indeed, in accordance with Article 43 of the Constitution, the law lays down in which cases and under which conditions the right to vote is exercised by foreigners. And the criteria of this law are permanent residence. This is said, according to the current legislation, foreigners are granted permanent residence in Slovenia after eight years. I would like to ask representatives of the government whether you can answer the question whether it is possible for this deadline to be misused and for foreigners to be given a permanent residence earlier than in eight years. In an informal conversation with some colleagues on vacation, we had a very gallant debate on this in the hallway. Some of my colleagues argued that this provision was being misused. Can you answer the question, then, do we strictly adhere to the provision that only after eight years of life in Slovenia will a foreigner get a permanent residence? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u131	Thank you very much for that question. During the break, I received some information and also some additional information regarding the status of permanent residence, precisely in relation to the debate that had been held before, which gave some completely incorrect figures in this regard. I don't want to say you have a number in your explanation for the marriage. There are approximately 13,000 foreigners who have a permanent residence permit. This information is about six months old. The latest information is exactly 14.400. It is true that, according to our esteemed colleague Podobnik, the time limit for obtaining a permanent residence permit under Slovenian regulations is somewhat long and uncomparable with the time limits that are in other countries. I've said that before. In other countries, we have 12 European countries analyzed, these arms move between 2, 3, there and 5 years. This is that I will be very precise, period of temporary stay with permission to stay temporarily. This means that an 8-year continuous residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia with a temporary residence permit or marriage with a national of the Republic of Slovenia a foreigner who has a valid residence permit or a foreigner with refugee status, or if there is an interest of the Republic of Slovenia. This is a condition related to obtaining a permanent residence permit. An additional condition, such as all additional cumulative conditions, is the provision of livelihoods, adequate housing, health insurance and non-penalty. If the condition of an eight-year continuous stay is not met, the residence permit or the marriage permit and so on cannot be obtained by a foreigner. But it's not enough. It's an emergency. The conditions are then sufficient for those around livelihoods, suitable housing, insurance and the like. We could assess - and join these possible expert evaluations - that this deadline is a relatively long one, this is today's legal regulation of the status of foreigners. If we want to change this deadline, we should change the foreign law. The fact is that it is by no means true that there are foreigners with a status that justifies them to vote for local elections, 83,000. This information just doesn't hold. I've been checking it out. The exact date for today is 14.400. During the years 1994 to 2001, annual residence permits were issued under those conditions that I had previously stated, say 1994-317 and 1995-308 and so on. Two, three years ago, this number moves between 1,000 and 2,000 a year. That means we're talking about a significantly lower number than the one that was said here. We are talking about about about 14,000 people with the possibility of slightly increasing this number in the coming years, depending on migration policy. By the way, let me say that the Government has prepared a document on a resolution on migration policy that also deals with these issues and will be submitted to the National Assembly in a short time. But these criteria, this standard, that foreigners with permanent residence have an electoral right in local elections, this is a European standard, a civilisation standard, a cultural standard; a political standard, in short, this is a democratic gain in modern Europe. In particular, I would say that - what I have already said and was stressed - this is not a condition given to us by the European Union. The European Union only requires this for citizens from the European Union and that we extend this standard here in accordance with European civilisational achievements.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I have two applications for the replica, in the following order: first Mr Podobnik for the replica, then Mr Jelinčič and two discussions. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much. So, it's very important that Mr. Minister has given the number 14.400, and let's use this number then, I think it's important. He used to be much more ambitious and talk about a much higher number. My question, Mr. Minister, was intonated somewhat differently. After a few items of the agenda we will have absolute relative conditions for the establishment of municipalities - you know this, the decision of the Constitutional Court and so on. So, my question was about fear, about fear that - I personally support this European criterion that citizens of the European Union in Slovenia have an electoral right for local elections - but I must admit that because of this issue I was skeptical that we did not write down 'nationals of the Member States of the European Union' but 'foreigners'. It is, as it says here, that we have gone in the direction of some cultural, civilisational and other standards, which should also be Europe's own, not everywhere in Europe, but also in Europe. Is it possible for this provision to increase the number of foreigners in Slovenia who have permanent residence this year? Is the eight-year stay an absolute condition, or is it in the interest of the State, the marriage - or could anyone express the discretionary right of a civil servant and we will find this second year that this year, in Slovenia, the status of permanent residence of 5,000 foreigners? That's what I'm afraid of. And if that were to happen, it means it was pre-election speculation. Otherwise, I understood that this - I did not fully understand whether the law in force gave us this discretionary option, to those who decide on the status of permanent residence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jelinčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Bohinc spoke of 14,400 people who were supposed to stay permanently and who could now also be granted electoral rights. Then I would ask Mr Bohinc how it is possible that the spokesman for the United List, Mr Matevž Krivic, former Constitutional Judge, cited and stood for the number 83,000 in the media. Dear Minister, there has been no publication by the Ministry of the Interior that this is not true. First of all, you said today, this afternoon you said it wasn't true. With a shivering voice and a nervous voice. Because I don't think you said the right number. It's certainly not as simple as you want to present this law. And this law is far from European, as you say. If you want to have a social state, be aware that this is enshrined in the Slovenian Constitution that Slovenia is a legal and social state, but the Slovenian Constitution is written for Slovenian citizens and citizens, not for the whole world. Mr Minister, in this way, all those dual citizens who live along the border with Slovenia and also those who do not have Slovenian citizenship will also be given the opportunity to vote, but are on the Slovenian-Croatian border and are going to the national elections to Croatia. But with us, they'll be able to vote for local communities. And then what happens? With the blessing of the Slovenian government, Slovenian citizens will disappear and you will turn them back into some kind of brotherhood and unity with no idea of the southern nations, as you once did. Then why did the Slovenians win? But now that you're driving on a small door, I don't know who? Who are those people for whom they have assured me that there are only Gypsies in Styria around 7,000 who demand even citizenship, now they will be given an electoral right that has no Slovenian citizenship since 1991 and whose numbers are increasing from day to day. Of course, their compatriots will immediately take care and testify that they were there, because, as we know, Gypsies do not have a permanent residence - if we look at the literature that I spoke to before, at least for the most part. These are the people who speculated in 1991 whether they would have taken Slovenian citizenship or not because they expected JLA to strike back and then they will remain clean and the other Slovenians will continue to be servants. We are strictly against it in our client and we will always defend it. You can vote, and I know you'll vote, because that number of voting votes outweighs a lot. And it is not enough for you to do Slovenia and Slovenia, but for everything else and that is why you are willing to do everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Replicas in the following order, Mr Rokavec, Mr Minister and Mr Jerovšek. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. It was not clear from the Minister's reply whether it was understood whether eight-year stay was one of the absolute conditions. In fact, according to the information I received - and not just one, there were still significant more - and there is also a likelihood that it is possible to obtain permanent residence status if it has a guaranteed stay in an apartment or so-called lease. I would therefore in fact ask for a more explicit response in this regard. Is the conclusion of a marriage or an eight - year stay an absolute condition, or is it just a relative condition? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u139	I'd like to answer two questions. First of all, with a slightly less shivering voice, I may repeat the number, which, however, is stated by my colleague Jelinčič in his explanation for this law, refers to the data of the past six months to 13,000 foreign nationals who have acquired permanent residence status. This status is subject to the right to vote. So this number has grown a little bit, so I said it's a 14.400 data that's up to date, and we're talking about this number and no other number. I cannot comment on the number given in any other context by Mr Krivic, but I can confidently deny any claim that people, foreign citizens with permanent residence status in Slovenia are more than I said. Well, more than 14.400. This is the information that we must bear in mind when we decide to grant these people the right to vote in local elections. That's the first part of the question. The second part of the question concerns the interpretation of the condition of permanent residence status. I have this definition before me, and I can interpret it this way. The conditions are as follows. I'll repeat them again. First, permit, valid temporary residence permit, eight-year permanent residence in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia with temporary residence permit - alternative from here on: whether the marriage with a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia, a foreigner who has a valid residence permit, or a foreigner with refugee status, and probably the following, which may bother you, or if there is an interest in the Republic of Slovenia This means that it is alternatively listed. In addition, some conditions are cumulatively listed, such as livelihoods, adequate housing, health insurance and non-penalty. Therefore, if these four reasons are not available, it is not an important condition for eight years of continuous stay or other status related to spouses and so on. This explanation has determined what is now in our legislation. If there is a judgment that this is too restrictive, that these deadlines are too long, there will be an opportunity to discuss this at the time of the above-mentioned document, a resolution on the immigration policy that will be given to the National Assembly in the coming months, where we have dealt with the various perspectives with these policy principles until immigration. I think it is very important for the National Assembly to adopt its definition of this. I repeat, however, that this is not a political manoeuvre of one party or group; it is what has been adopted in the practice of European countries for many years. I have listed countries in front of me: Denmark, Estonia, Finland, Ireland, Hungary, Iceland, Malta, Norway, the Netherlands, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom - all these countries have a statutory election right for local elections to foreigners from two to three, up to five years of permanent residence in the country. And after that, we followed suit when we decided to set a broader standard of this right than what it binds us to with its directive of the European Union, because it deals only with citizens and citizens of the European Union.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I have three more applications for the replica and Mr Brejc to discuss. Replicas in order, first Mr Jerovšek, then Mr Battelli and then Mr Kebric. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Here we are now witnessing to each other two political parties that it is a political manoeuvre of one party or another. Allow me to set up thesis and I'm a little bit in doubt if it's not really political maneuvers, even in this very serious marriage. Indeed, it would be quite possible that this is a skilled political manoeuvre of the United List and of the Slovenian National Party. By the way, objectively, both parties make the most of it. You are defending yourself as I do not know what advocates to grant electoral rights and citizenship to all who happened to be in the territory of Slovenia, Jelinčič, of course, this very harsh attack. And given that Mr Jelinčič was very close to this political option during the two mandates and that he is extremely familiar with the internal political logic and logistics of the party's operation, I believe there is something about it. In fact, Mr. Jelinčič is an excellent master in changing political arithmetic of election results [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u142	Mr Jerovšek, I ask you to stop judging your fellow Member, Mr Jelinčič, this is not an object. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u143	Is an object, of course it is - and also knows all the finesse how to [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u144	You have the right to replicate his statements. Mr. Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u145	changes political arithmetic. [[...]] And in the past, he was often in agreement with these parties or with this political option of how to influence electoral results.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u146	Mr Jerovšek, I remind you to stop judging Mr Jelinčič, you have the right to debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u147	I'm not just judging Mr. Jelinčič, both [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u148	Then again, I remind you to stop doing this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u149	I know you're allergic, ma'am, to that, but that's exactly what's important to clear up this important matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u150	Mr Jerovšek, please, if you continue with the replica of the content of the debate of our fellow Members, otherwise I will take your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u151	It's content. In fact, I would like to clarify how many citizens will have or how many foreigners will have permanent residence in the next election. The fact is that Mr Krivic is actually the official representative of the United Nations in a number of cases. And the United List is silent about the challenge or the provocation of Mr Jelinčič. I've witnessed too many electoral frauds in this country. You know that Mr Jelinčič, for example, attacked Mr Milosevic extremely in 1992.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. I take your word for it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u153	If you think you have [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Battelli has a word for the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. Corrigendum to Mr Jelinčič's statement on public opinion, Article 63 of the Constitution: "Constitutionally, any encouragement to national, racial, religious or other inequalities and dissemination of national, racial, religious or other hatred and intolerance is against the Constitution." The last paragraph of Article 15 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia: "No human rights or fundamental freedoms regulated by legal acts in force in Slovenia shall be restricted by the excuse that this Constitution does not recognise it or that it recognises it to a lesser extent." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Battelli. Two more, three more replicas. First Mr. Kebric, then Mr. Potrč and Mr. Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! In detail, I listened to you carefully and you said, and I wrote it down; I will interpret it this way. I'm asking you, is there any other way or is there only one that you "exposed"?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Potch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I didn't mean to come forward at first, but for the sake of protecting Mr Krivica's name, not the United List, it has nothing to defend itself. There was a speech that Mr Krivic was a spokesman and there was a speech that he was a representative in many matters. So, you all know that he is declared a legal representative in the case of the Vatican Agreement, and that is one, the only and all. Everything else here is a conscious lie, Mr Jerovšek, a conscious lie. And at least I would ask you not to use it, and for Mr Jelinčič I believe that certain facts will also be accepted. With regard to substantive issues, however, I would only like to point out this. Unfortunately, a large group of people living in Slovenia, who are neither citizens nor foreigners, and who do not have a permanent residence, succeeded through their demands in the Constitutional Court with the findings of the Constitutional Court that their situation should be re-evaluated. At that time, we will be in the National Assembly, partly with changes and amendments to the law, and we will face it in part. At that time, it will be necessary to sit down and talk about this broader issue and the right or wrong conduct, and this has nothing to do with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Jelinčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Battelli, who has read two articles of the Slovenian Constitution, 15 and 63, which I fully agree with, but has slightly missed the course. I should read Article 3 of the Constitution, the second paragraph of the Slovenian Constitution, which reads: "In Slovenia, the people, citizens and citizens exercise it directly and through elections according to the principle of the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial." I'll read it again, Mr. Battelli. Citizens and citizens - i.e., the Republic of Slovenia, I do not know which other country - exercise it, namely, power, directly and through elections. Once again, this is said: citizens and citizens of Slovenia exercise power directly and through elections. No, I don't know who, any citizens or non-citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u162	Thank you very much. And now he has the floor to debate, Mr Brace. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Well, first of all, I would like to say that I support the amendment tabled by Nova Slovenija, which speaks of citizens of the Member States of the European Union having electoral rights, not foreigners. I think this limitation of rights is necessary for a number of reasons. First of all, I would like to remind you that the government has itself written in its objectives, in point 2, I quote: "The aim of the proposed law is to regulate the right to vote in local elections for EU citizens." So it's somehow possible to assume that this is a tendency. It is true that, then, in the following chapter, the Election Rights of Foreigners, the government speaks of extending this concept to foreign people as a matter of civil, cultural, political or political standards. And that's what this is all about. I think it's a matter of political judgment. It is also a matter of cultural and other standards. You're right. However, we, as a country in some special status at this moment, which is certainly not so strong and stable, must be able to afford more than other large countries can afford, but have reconsidered whether such formulations are in favour of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. Sam, I don't think so. Such a broad allocation of electoral rights is not - that is, it is positive discrimination in some way - but I think it puts the citizens of Slovenia in an unequal position. In spite of everything. I'd like to draw your attention to another aspect. In a short year, two years from now, we will have elections, at least I hope, to the European Parliament. There is already a law on elections to the European Parliament in the procedure. There will be a question that is now - those who are participating in the convention, but we are constantly confronted with this notion: the concept of European citizenship, the 'Europeanancitienship', where this citizenship of Europe, in particular, is emphasized, not by the state. And from this point of view, the amendment made by Nova Slovenija is all the more justified because it highlights the membership of one new idea. Not to anyone. Not to an American who lives here for so long and so long, I purposely use the case of an American, not someone else. Why would he have any election rights when he's not a European citizen? So I think it's too much to give so much width, so please think about it again. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that the solution, as proposed by Nova Slovenija, is good, and we can later, when we have sufficient power, extend this right to say: not only to the citizens of Europe, but also to others. But we still have time for that. In fact, we also have time for European citizens, I think, the citizens of the European Union. But good. We rushed here, I don't mind it, but I think it's really too much. And it's no use to us. In fact, it does not benefit Slovenia's interests. And if there's anything else I can say. During the break, we discussed the course of these meetings over the last few months and found that in the National Assembly, all parties except one, I think, we agreed that we would give priority to European legislation. Here we are now listening to the days and days of debate that distance us from adopting this European legislation within the deadlines for which we have all committed ourselves together. I regret to point out, as an opposition Member, that endless debate is allowed in this house in all directions and European legislation will not be adopted. And this, I'm afraid, suits someone to say in the end: yes, simply European legislation is not adopted, so we do not meet the conditions for Europe and we will stay where we hope we do not want to. So I ask that we all think together about our discussions and contributions to a common objective and avoid discussions that are not going anywhere. There's one more thing I have to say here that really bothers me when I'm chairman. On the boards, there is no debate on the boards, because there are no people when they come here and have not been on the boards, for example, the Young People's Party is already such a case, but they are the first speakers. It's immoral for me after all. I don't have to listen to all this. And that's what I'm saying. Discussions with the committees shall be repeated in this meeting. Why do we even have work bodies then? Let's stop working bodies and have this debate because it's a waste of time. Time will pass and we will not adopt legislation because of our own incompetence. Sorry about that last part.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you very much. The apology was in place because, Dr. Brace, your debate must have been at the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Vice President. Of course, I understand these concerns on the one hand and on the other, but I take this provision, which is written down, quite differently. It is a matter of whether a foreigner, who lives permanently and by some law, is legally entitled to permanent residence in our country, to manage local public affairs. Anyone who can in this House, of course, deny the right to a foreigner who pays taxes and everything else, lives in a place, can even be married to a Slovenian citizen - does he not have the need to jointly regulate local matters? Does he have any right to say where the sidewalk is going to be built, or does he have the right to decide whether or not to decide where municipal waste is going to go - I am talking about local public affairs? And something else, it's about fear, in terms of the big eyes of a little Chinaman, because the alien will be elected by the electorate, and if this one is popular, if he's an exemplary foreigner, and if he's in a local place, he'll have to get so many votes and so many votes that he can even become a member of a municipal world. From this point of view, I feel that there is nothing at stake, but others, of course, may have concerns. However, I am afraid that if we write down, as the amendment suggests, that we go to some discrimination against the other - and on what basis we can at this point, if we are not members of the European Union, do discrimination against other foreign citizens; foreigners with permanent residences, so I will say - to foreigners with permanent residence in an area. Then why should we discriminate against them? I think that, in another law, the secretariat has also warned us that we cannot afford to do this. So this is about whether we're going to introduce this standard or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Two more replicas, first Mr. Battelli, then Mr. Rokavec. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Although some arrangements do not know the institute of permanent residence, they only know temporary residence and the next step is citizenship. However, we have a permanent residence of eight years and the conditions for citizenship are ten years, unless it is an emergency, I am simplifying our regime. So the matter, as the Minister correctly notes and repeats, is quite strict, it is said, no matter what. As far as the European Union is concerned, we are in real estate to say that legislation has made a reciprocal link with the European Union for known reasons. Of course, this is not the same context of the issues, and I therefore believe that this discrimination between European Union citizens who live here, but who among others are extremely few, is also strange, compared to other candidate countries, how few citizens of the European Union have permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. So this information would also be interesting to look at. In short, this link between the right to vote or to vote for local elections and the citizenship of the European Union does not seem appropriate to me. As for the general civilisation trend that is taking place, of course, it is happening in the way we have heard from many debates so far. It is said that the spread of participation of people who contribute to this also with their lives and living in a given environment, and this subton, which is heard and which somehow reminds us of some calls for Slovenia, to get off the civilisation train and in a way reminds us of those - for my modest notions completely unacceptable for human and all other reasons - is true the requirements that have been repeated for years and years by certain parties in Parliament for the taking of citizenship. Then it finally came to an end. But this whole context, which is rolling around here, for my modest notions as something threatening, I think it must be - not to say stigmatized, but at least presented to the public as something negative, as something that does not respond to the civilisational experience of the Slovenian people and this space, of which the Slovenian nation is an integral part. We, who have experienced fascism in our own country as anti-fascists, may also be able to say about who we resisted - I speak for my parents and old parents and not speak personally in this sense, but precisely because such cases were, thank God, quite a lot.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. Mr. Wolf, I agree with you, that foreigners who live with us and also work to create for this country. But the fact is: everyone as a government has today acknowledged - and also advocates of the amendment proposal - to whom all will be given the right to vote, but you claim that something more is actually given and the fact is that something more is given than the European Union requires us to do. I'm asking you something else, Mr. Lavrinc. How many countries in the world do Slovenians or Slovenians who are foreigners have the opportunity to vote in local elections? In a very small number of countries. In very few countries we have just heard from the Minister. We should probably ask each other about this segment first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u171	I'll use the replica to maybe because we didn't get along. We are talking - and this should be stressed - about passive electoral rights. The right to elect a member of the congregation council, who will be a foreigner, whom we have previously talked about and can go to such or other cases of foreigners with permanent residence. This is usually the case for foreigners who, under the terms of the law, have a source of livelihood and so on, but we are talking about passive electoral rights. So what is the fear that a foreigner with a permanent residence would not be able to elect a political party, a member of the congregation’s council responsible for him, who would also represent his interests as a resident of an area. As far as I know, I have an aunt in Germany, she is a very strong Slovenian community in Ingolstadt and they always participate in local elections, although she is a Slovenian citizen abroad and has a permanent residence.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr. Yuri, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u173	Purely for a short colleague of Rock. The question of whether we are capable, mature, ready to accept the solutions that are today in Europe and elsewhere the most modern and advanced. Do we fear these solutions and follow the drops? If you judge, Comrade Rokavec, that this is to the detriment of the Slovenian state, the local community and its inhabitants, of course you can think this way. I estimate that this is in the interest of the local community, because if a foreigner who has a permanent residence there is involved in the process of local democracy, he will certainly contribute something to this community. Experiences in the most advanced countries have proved useful. I propose that we be so brave that we also define such experiences and exemplary arrangements today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u174	Thank you very much. I think I can conclude with a general debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment to Article 1. Let's vote! There are 75 of us in attendance. 20 votes against 34. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 54 of us present. 36 votes against 17. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 17.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 4 and on the two amendments. The Committee's amendment is under review, and on the table you have an amendment to the amendment of the Committee to the 4th Article, the drafters of which are LDS Members' List of Social Democrats, SLS and DeSUS. I am opening a debate on both amendments and Article 4. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u175	On behalf of the three parliamentary groups, we have tabled an amendment to the amendment to the 4th member of the Internal Policy Committee. First, we would correct the explanation, namely in the last line of explanation, when we changed the fifth to a quarter in the amendment to the amendment, we forgot to correct 20 to 25, so I am correcting this now that the explanation is in line with the amendment to the amendment. There was a lot of talk about the so-called preferential vote when the law was presented and parliamentary groups and individual Members were also spoken of. We wanted to find some compromise between what is now in force, i.e. between the absolute preference that the candidate for municipal councillor must receive, namely 50% plus one vote, and between the absolute preference that has now been proposed in amending the law. The fact is that what was now with this preference was, so to speak, a serious misdirection of the electorate, because in no elections has it been possible so far and, of course, as on the other hand, some fetishisation of the parties is almost excessive and however we have a multilateral system, of course we must not use it in a way that it is absolute dominance and nothing else. However, since this is a problem on the one hand, and on the other hand, it is also right for the parties to draw up candidate lists, but that voters have the opportunity to find their candidate on the list, to surround it, to choose it, it is possible to seek solutions in different ways. After the Committee has thus unanimously tabled an amendment to this article, we have found, on the basis of calculations and on the basis of the artificial methods and some analyses that we have made both domestic elections and some comparisons, that the reduction of this qualification threshold from one third to one-quarter - is still high, but in spite of everything - is earlier available and then for individuals the number 15 is still to be reduced to 10%. So it's kind of a compromise and that's why we support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u177	Thank you very much. I have discussed this before, so I would not repeat the debate. However, I would like to ask the applicants a few questions. In view of what has now been said that the current system has actually deceived the electorate and promised them something that in practice could not be achieved, I would ask you when you wrote, either the committee or now the three parliamentary groups, this amendment, or you have the data to ensure that the amended law provides anyone with an election - after the known data in the elections. Would anyone with a preferential voice come to the congregation council after this amendment? Because if not, then it is the same - nothing but simple deception that cannot be achieved in practice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u179	No, just an explanation or an answer to a question. Yeah, it's the answer. In smaller congregations, this is even stronger, with larger ones, of course, fewer. Where electoral units are made or constituencies, this is so much more so and so on. It is, and calculations have been made, for some, both to leap, to the congregations.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mr. Grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Well, this proposal, if we really want to reach out to the municipal council to get the candidates that voters want, then, I mean, we should change the system to the majority for municipal councilors. I still don't think there's gonna be a crowd of elected people here, even with big customers. Since a quarter of the votes still stand for a party that receives a thousand, a few thousand votes, it is necessary to get that 10 percent, that is still at a thousand votes 100, which is very difficult to get in the preference vote. And I think this threshold is still unattainable in large parties. There is a smaller option, but here too the question is whether someone will come in this way. So I think here, if we really want to get past the will - or because if a customer makes a list, then probably all those on the client list have the trust of a customer and will represent a customer in the municipal world. And if you wanted to get the ones that voters really want, not just the top, the lead of the party, then you'd be the most honest majority system. And then, if we had a majority system for municipal councilors, as we said yesterday in our parliamentary group, the mayors' elections could also be different, they would be legitimately elected, even if the municipal council chose them from among themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u183	Thank you for your word. I repeat to Mr. Sok, and now to Mr. Grandad. Let's not mix the majority electoral system with a proportional, preferential voice. These are two completely different things. For the majority system also comes to the local self-government, if we talk about it, without the fact that the electorate does not want them, if they have been identified by majority as a party. Do not be misled by the public or by yourself or by others of us who know something or don't know anything about electoral law. The essence of this preferential voice with a threshold is deceiving, because it is very unlikely that in larger constituencies, such as electoral municipalities with more than one quarter of the population, it will be possible to reach one quarter. If you, dear fellows, wanted to introduce one threshold and provide your party champions with elections to the municipal councils, then at least this threshold should be set at least 10 percent, which would be acceptable. But everything else is purely deceiving yourself and cheering for what I've already said in the morning. If two of them are on the list of candidates who receive or receive one or two terms of office, no one will ever be elected by preferential vote and those two candidates will be a permanent councillor for life. Thank you very much. That's why I won't support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u185	I regret to explain to both of you, Mr Vnučc and Mr Kebrich why it is actually going well. In fact, we speak, unlike the preferred vote that now applies to local elections, which is exclusively a voice to an individual and one must receive 50% +1 of all the votes cast for this list. That's unreal. We have now put in the procedure and we know the electoral law in the European Parliament, which also introduces the lists and, of course, within this, also sets a qualification threshold, which, of course, allows mixing or mixing candidates on the list, according to some of the preferences that voters give. Mr. Grandchild, it is not true that this 25% is tied to the candidate, but to all the preferences granted to the list. So if there's 10 candidates on the list, I get 10 as a 6. 20 and so on. When all of this comes together, there must be 25% of all the votes on the list to make it clear that voters want something else. They want this client, but inside this party, they want someone else. When you figure that out, and not again because of any capriciousness - to the order of things, to the right order, which the electorate would like to do, he has to get 10% of those who want to get the turn of this list. That's all. But I'm saying, once we're talking about the qualification quorum and the second time we're talking about the individual. I think that's pretty fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr. Grandchild, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u187	Only Mr. Anderlich would answer if I knew that. I just wanted to say that I am talking about that there will not be any chosen in this way for more parties, because there will be so many votes that it is also impossible to do so. That current system is so much worse. And that is why what the Government's proposal was, the bill as such - now I don't know if by mistake - was probably correcting it because it was meant that only the reference votes would be taken into account. This is almost the same as if we had a majority election, almost. And this proposal says that there will be no movement on the list in large parties. Only maybe over smaller ones. And that's why I'm saying that this system is still not the same for everyone. But I understand the very way of counting it and who will come first, but I am saying that this will not happen in the big party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u189	I myself will support the possibility that, by a preferential vote, we will also get the composition of, say, municipal councils more at the will of the electorate. I don't know, I didn't step into the calculations, whether this will be possible on a practical level. But that's why I'm here because we've had a lot of elections these past few years. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] voters. [[...]] In fact, some of the parties that were set up just because they were trying to trick voters in some way put those who were ideologically sworn in first. To another place, the one with whom they were agitating at a completely different part of the electorate that they were not representing at all. I remember, let's say that the leaves were so composed that there was an anti-democrat in the first place, I'd literally say Bolshevik, but they put someone else in the second place who went to church every Sunday and promoted it. And this scam was huge. And if there was a preferred voice back then, you'd get one that was second or third. However, the first to be seen as an electoral supremacy came into the congregation’s council. I want as little electoral fraud as possible in the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u190	Thank you very much. A replica of the performance of Mr Anderlich Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u191	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Tone Anderlich. Don't fool me into some sort of thing. I'm a writer, and I can read, and I'll read it again. The second paragraph of Article 17 reads as follows: and thus amends this proposal by amending the previous law, which was, in effect, theoretically enforceable and practically demonstrated by practice, it was not possible to reach the municipal or city council by a preferential vote of 50% and one vote. This article says well in the second paragraph. In the cases of Articles 14 to 17, candidates who obtained the preferred votes of voters who voted in favour of the list shall be elected, following the order of the highest number of preferred votes. As far as I can tell. Comrade Anderlich, if we understand this problem and if we're going to bring democracy to the voter list, then let's pour ourselves some pure wine. Don't cariculate me with a hundred votes one favored voice, and he'll come in! But the party champions, who will be the first on the list, and the second, and the third, and the fourth, will be the customer and sympathizers for them to do the commercial and get so many preferred votes and no threshold. Prague is an injustice like injustice anywhere else. We've exhibited this a number of times, and I'm going to point it out again. Let us understand this article as it is written and do not caricose with one preferred vote. And if we go purely theoretically, each one of them will surround himself, and we will have a whole list of each one with his preferred voice, and the third paragraph will enter into force, and it will be decided upon by the lot who will come in. Let's not smile in front of ourselves! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u193	I'd hate to look rude, but I'd like to ask Mr. Kebrich, who the amendment is talking about. Really. That's not what I'm reading here. That's not an absolute preferential voice. That's what we had, and that's fixed, once on the board, now we've cut it down. What are we talking about? Would I ask you what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u194	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss clearly anymore and things are clear, we are moving on to decision-making. First of all, on the amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 4 of the three parliamentary groups. We decide on the amendment to the amendment of the Committee to Article 4. Let's vote! There are 59 of us in attendance. The vote was 45 to 10. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the amendment to the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of the board. Let's vote! There are 60 of us in attendance. 48 votes against 4. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And then there's the fourth whole article. Let's vote! There are 56 of us present. The vote was 48 against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that Article 4 is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 6 and on the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. The vote was 19 to 32. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 32.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. Let's vote! There are 55 of us present. 41 votes against 7. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the article has been adopted We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 11 and the amendment of Mr Lavrinc to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mrs. Duster, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u195	At the same time, I would like to point out only that, while we agree with what has already been said in the debate, who is actually doing the official work or could say most of the work, as Members have already warned, in the elections; but we believe that this is actually an official job carried out by the secretary of the congregation, but now the law changes that another person may be outside the municipal administration. Therefore, we believe that, as this work has already been paid out in the municipalities, it is possible, in accordance with the legislation in force, that this work - that is, more than what the secretary is doing - can be paid through contracts, in short, overtime; so there are other options. Because this article regulates the functional awards. So, now we're talking about the fact that the electoral commission is an independent and independent body of the local community and that these members are performing a temporary function, which means that we are now comparing the Secretary's awards to this function, which we don't think is right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u196	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u197	Now it's arranged as it is: somewhere else. Most of the work and responsibilities are actually borne by these people. Now there are comments whether they are officials or not - they are, for my terms then, because they are in a special role. This is as we would say that the official is not our secretary of state or secretary of the National Assembly. Yes! It has a function, there is chosen for that time, after all everyone can't be, has work too, and kindly please remember what it looks like - the president signs so, bye-bye. And they're working, and they're still responsible for everything, and finally they're wearing a signature.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u198	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. We're moving on to a decision, first of all an amendment. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 24 votes against 20. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 20.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. 43 votes against 8. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 13 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 16 votes against 34. [[The vote was 16.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 44 votes against 10. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 15 and the amendment of the SDS Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 14 votes against 35. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 43 votes against 10. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision on Article 24 and on the two amendments to this Article, under one is the amendment of the SDS Group of Members and under two amendments of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. Because no one wants to discuss it, I conclude it and we move on to a decision. First, about the amendment under one. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 17 votes against 36. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 36.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're also deciding on an amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 47 votes against 1. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 43 votes against 5. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. Could I have your attention, please? The amendment and the article I am putting to the debate are not under review, namely the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members to Article 26. I am making amendments and paragraphs 26 for discussion and decision-making. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u199	Thank you for your word. Dearly beloved, if you look at the text of this article, we suggest that it be deleted. Why? Before marriage and above all, we must all be the same. And if I may remind you of yesterday's debate, when we, or when determined, wanted to make an exception to the law that we had adopted before, pay the public sector, we are setting an exception here again. Are we a national assembly that we have, not a line, but a vision of what our legislation should look like and before it all be equal? Let me tell you. I have no objection to these awards, nor do any of the members of the parliamentary group object to it, even though the law states that the function is honorable. However, these people work a lot on electoral committees and are officials not to repeat these words, which are clear. But let us say once and for all that we are the ones who will keep equality before and before the laws. And so please support this amendment. Once again, they will not be affected so much as the amount of these refunds, the rewards for our opportunities and the situation are properly set. Thank you for your attention and I ask you to support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u200	Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u201	This time, I'll support my colleague, Kebrich. Especially because if you read on page 14 of the Rapporteur’s explanation of articles 26, 27, you will see that the government or the proponents do not appreciate us very much. All they said was that no taxes were paid from the remuneration of the presidents of the members of the electoral authorities. There's no explanation why not. So, since I personally assess that these things need to be served as proposed by my colleague Kebrich, I will support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Mrs. Duster, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u203	So this article was essentially coordinated with the Ministry of Finance and was also, as proposed, coordinated. Indeed, the system-wide issue is supposed to be regulated in the same way as in our article, so taxation of these incomes by the Income Act would, in fact, solve this problem in an integrated way. Now, in essence, the Ministry of Finance also felt that it was an exceptional function in some way, honorary functions also in the electoral commissions, in the electoral committees, that it was smaller awards - because it was a matter of electoral committees, that it was a matter of smaller awards - and when it was difficult to obtain members of electoral committees at all, that it was pointless and unacceptable for them to still pay specific fees. But I can tell you that it's about 8,000 tolls paid to perform this function.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, then Mr. Lavrinc. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u205	I agree, Madam Secretary of State, with your explanation. The point of the problem is, indeed it says in this transitional period," but yesterday we wanted to make the same exception for salaries outside the civil servants' pay system during that transitional period. And let's not make exceptions on our own! But when there's a new law, this will be - let's hope - as soon as possible, the matter will be resolved. Why complicate it again with one exception? We want to force the exceptions in this House! I have nothing against the height of the prizes, I said it was. And you're wrong that it's hard to get people. When it appeals to customers to make proposals, we always have too many, not too little.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u207	This reminds me of a story I won't mention because my president doesn't like it either. But look, if this prize is too small, then it needs to be increased. This thing doesn't belong here. That doesn't work. This is part of the law that we agreed not to deal with. It's income. So that's where the whole set should be written down. That's one. Second. For some, this will mean that they will get a little bit; for some, it will mean that they will get more. It depends on which grade they're in. And I agree here with Mr. Kebrich that the exceptions here to work in such a way that they are scattered, as if the chickens imposed them, are not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u209	Look, when I listen to this, I don't think you know what this is about. These are members of the electoral committees, where the prize has been given to the current elections of 5,000 tolars. Good or eight. I have five more in my memory. These members of the electoral boards are, say, 12 times all of those, I don't know how many thousand voters. How much will it cost, how will it cost, how will it cost, or how it is possible, or if we get someone else to work on these electoral committees at all? Listen up! When the money goes out, don't do anything. Here, when it comes to tolars, you get involved. That's ridiculous! I'd rather ask myself how no one saw that the president of the electoral commission could get the mayor's monthly salary when he called four meetings for some elections in a small municipality. No one's looked at it. Or: the vice-president of the electoral committee pays the parishioner not to say that this is all at the expense of the local community, the conduct of these elections or the payment of this electoral commission. But when they get those five grand that they usually drink together after the elections, they're singing in a local way -- and here they're looking for tax. Please!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Kavticnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Dude, this isn't about the level of funds, this is about order or the system. And we're talking about the system. And when we talk about the system, we can't work, we can't make that kind of difference. There's no mention of height here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u213	Well, I think it's right that the government has now written it as it is. Because in addition to what he had pointed out to his colleague Sušnik, something was particularly controversial. The Republic Election Commission said in its position that no tax should be charged out of these amounts, while the Ministry of Finance gave its position: yes. And the congregations had trouble paying, not paying, and so on, paying off somewhere, clearing up. And it is right to consider that during this period, until this is resolved, it is written down that for these smaller ones, those who receive board members on the electorate do not charge the income. Since then, see, when the congregation pays for it, it has to send it back to them at the end of the year that they give it in their income statement, and we are talking about these fights with 5,000 tolars. So: if this is clearly stated in the law now, we have eliminated what was previously inconsistent - that two different national authorities and one electoral one financial, one ministry, gave different directions and then there was a living anarchy in Slovenia. Then there was a revolution, because the board members had to pay back the money. I mean, let's save ourselves by knowing about the next election, whether we're counting or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u214	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Because no, I'm concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group to delete Article 26. We're voting. There are 57 of us present, 19 votes against 29. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 29.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We decide on Article 26 as a whole. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 49 votes against one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We are moving on to a debate and a decision on Article 27 and the amendment of the Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 46 votes against none. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 58 of us present, 45 votes against one. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the article is fully adopted. We discussed the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want to talk? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. In the second reading, amendments were adopted. If qualified applicants wish to table an amendment to this article, please do so. Before that, I ask, does anyone want to discuss the bill in its entirety? Since no, I ask, pursuant to Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, the Secretariat, if the adopted materials violate the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. That is why we are moving on to a full decision on the law. Explanation of voice. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u215	Procedurally. On behalf of the parliamentary group, we request a 20-minute recess for consultation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u216	Thank you very much. Before deciding the law in its entirety on the proposal, please, Mr Trofenik. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u217	However, I would like to ask, in connection with Mr Kebrich's proposal, that the government, pending final decision, should give the exact procedure, how what we have voted in Article 26 will be paid. I don't think it's as clear as anyone thinks. There's no sports. Nothing's clear. Dear colleagues, let them directly say whether they will pay this as a "quasi" journal or as a contract work, a fee without any accounting. It's not a net, like you think! Firstly, there is a provision which allows for a one-year annual award of some average income without tax and this has been almost unnecessary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u218	Thank you very much. If anyone, you, Mr. Trofenik, of course know the rules of procedure and you are clear that we are in the stage Please pay attention! [[...]] We are in the decision-making phase on the bill as a whole. The DeSUS delegation wanted a 20-minute recess before the decision, so I am adjourning the meeting and we will go to the full decision on the law at 4:32 p.m. [[The meeting was suspended at 4:12 p.m. and resumed at 4:33 p.m.]] or respected because we will continue. [[...]] Please join us. Before I give the floor to the representative of the parliamentary group, if he wishes to explain the position of the parliamentary group, and to explain the vote to Mr Barovic, who has made himself known, we will be able to identify the presence in the Chamber, so I would like to ask for some attention. We'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. We're detecting a presence. There are 51 of us present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. Mr. Kebrich, you have the floor, please. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u219	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues! We wanted this break, a break, to consult between two options, for or against. Which is better. We have agreed that it is right to respect the basic democratic principle that most decisions are made, even though we remain in our opinion in the minority. However, we condemn the Ministry of Finance to agree on this, given that for example. Fire companies, when voluntary contributions are made to get equipment to be in fire safety, and we tax them, pay for everything. It is not correct and we will make this clear to them at the time of the rebalancing. Secondly, we weighed that the National Assembly does not respect us alone, does not have a certain line, a certain vision that before the constitution and law we are all the same. However, since local self-government communities are ahead of the elections, we have decided to support this law in this need and we will not oppose it. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Vote explanation, Mr. Barovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u221	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues! As you have already heard, according to the assessment of the Slovenian National Party and in my opinion, I am talking about an assessment, Article 1 of this Act violates the Constitution. Because I believe that, I estimate, civil conscience and obedience, of course, do not allow me to support such a law, so I will oppose acceptance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u222	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote anymore, we are moving on to a vote, that is to say, the decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance, 46 votes against 11. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against 11.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. This concludes this point, i.e. point 4 of the agenda. We're going back to break three. OF THE agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Local Self-Government. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled in the third reading of the bill. You have received amendments on the bench, so I am putting an amendment to the 11th article, which is proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We have again tabled an amendment to Article 11, because we are convinced that the provision linking the number of municipalities in relation to the number of inhabitants in the event of compliance with the conditions of representativeness is constitutionally controversial. The municipalities, as defined by the Constitution, are neither conditioned by the number of inhabitants nor ranked by the number of inhabitants. I am convinced that this provision provides for a constitutionally disputed and that by this definition we divide or rank the congregations, by law on local self - government, which we thus amend. So much for reflection. I think that the whole matter is so sensitive and controversial that it is worth, I stress, worth considering, in particular, by stressing once again that it has determined the number of municipalities in relation to the number of municipalities that practically rank municipalities in our country in two ranks, small and large. That is not the case, I find it difficult to convince me that we can simply gather a sufficient number of congregations that are sufficient to meet the condition of a congregation that has a small number of people in common or that, as it is written, we can easily find that these congregations, as such, do not meet the condition, even though the congregations before the law are equal, small and large, as regards powers, jurisdiction and all that comes out of the Constitution and the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Perhaps this would just add to the question a little bit, and I would also like to ask that answer. I want to know how many last municipalities it takes to get to 150,000 and how many last municipalities it takes to get to 250,000, so that's what's going on in there. I would like to ask for an answer because I feel that the last quarter of the congregations do not meet the condition of 150,000 and less than 250,000. I think that this proposal, which was adopted, makes it impossible for those smallest municipalities to form this representative association themselves. In fact, I'd like to ask for an answer if these criteria match. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u226	Thank you very much. I'm asking the representatives of the Minister, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u227	We didn't quite understand the question. What do you mean by the last congregation?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u228	At least.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u229	Nevertheless, this would require a calculation which depends on how many people in the municipality we are taking into account. But you know that by the number of people in the congregation, they are very different. We have municipalities from 300 population to 300,000 people. We're having a hard time hunting averages now. So if you want some calculation, you have to give us two: for the first time more precise parameters, and for the second time some time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u230	Thank you very much. Two replicas. First Mr. Sušnik, then Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u231	It is undeniable that 91 or 92 municipalities are smaller than 5,000 people. The question Mr Tanko asked is: How many small congregations must be brought into the association to meet the criteria as voted? I am sure that 90 smallest municipalities do not meet the criteria of one quarter of the population of Slovenia. This is a simple calculation, and they all have 5,000 inhabitants. However, I think it would take more than 100 municipalities to meet the criteria for the number of people. Therefore, the question was how many municipalities from smaller to larger were needed to meet the criteria of the population.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u233	I'd just like to make it up to you. This is said to be how many municipalities per population, but from the back up, from 300 to the largest municipality is needed in order to meet the criteria 250,000, or a quarter of municipalities in the sense that this criterion cannot be met. The last 50 municipalities cannot select a threshold for the population, because they are small municipalities and are thus simply excluded from this option of quota for a quarter and a second condition. The case is not synchronized.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u234	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u235	Unfortunately, you won't be able to be satisfied with the answer. We don't have this information right now, we're ready to get it. It means choosing municipalities according to the order of the smallest municipalities up and down, and determining how many of them are in the sum of this censorship. We can get this in the session, but I'm not giving you an answer right now. I would also say that this very large answer will not help to resolve this question, for it would be very random for only municipalities to be gathered together in one congregation by the order of the minimum population. This is possible, but only theoretically possible. But regardless, in the next half hour, we can gather this information together. Not before.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u236	Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u237	Well, on the basis of what you've said, I can say that 160 municipalities, except for the municipalities, do not meet the criteria of a quarter of the population. Now, judge the situation that we have placed 150 congregations in. What position did we put them in?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment. Explanation of voice. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u239	Let me procedurally propose that the hearing be terminated until we have obtained this information and that we simply see exactly what this means, in fact, what we are voting on. Because I'm sure the vast majority of us here don't even know what we're voting on. A quarter of the population, that's 500 grand or so. And 500 thousand, at least, means that the association is absolutely eliminated. And before that association, Sušnik said well, we need an alternative association of 150 municipalities. If the municipalities are eliminated. And this criterion, as was written here and adopted, is absolutely unacceptable. And it doesn't allow any free or any other association. And this representation is actually just a fiction. It's, I don't know, it's, I think it's even an unconstitutional thing to think about. It does not allow municipalities to unify freely to get a large enough quota for the population, and I simply think it is pointless for such a provision to be incorporated into the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members, I think we should bear in mind that we are in the third reading; the decision taken by the majority of this House in the second reading was as it was. Your procedural proposal that you want the Ministry to prepare the data as requested within half an hour, I will give the decision to the National Assembly. I don't think I need to say it again. I ask whether we should move on to the next item of the agenda and give half an hour if you are assessing that it is necessary for the Ministry to prepare the data as requested by Members of the Group. I put this procedural proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. It's 26 votes to 23. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. We will move on to item 5 of the agenda, and representatives of the government, the Minister and the Secretary of State ask that you prepare information for Members and Members, as proposed by Mr Tanko or Mr Sušnik. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Political Parties Act, Summary Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Does the government want a word? Mr. Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u241	Your Honor! This is the next of the laws, which are also in place to coordinate with the European Union and prepare for this year's elections. It is also linked to the law on local elections and the law on local self-government. It's basically two changes. The first relates to membership in political parties for citizens and citizens of the European Union, the second relates to two amendments concerning the financing of political parties for local elections or in general. With regard to the first amendment, I would specifically remind you of the distinction with the law on local elections. It is not about membership in political parties for foreigners, but only for citizens and citizens of the European Union, which is based on the Treaty establishing the European Community, which introduces European citizenship, as well as on the directives of the Council of the European Union, that is, 109 of 1993 and 80 of 1994. These two directives regulate the exercise of this right in the Member States in the elections of two types, namely local elections and the European Parliament. Article 19 of the Treaty on European Union recognises to every citizen of the European Union, resident in a Member State whose nationality is not, the right of two: to vote and run for elections for the European Parliament, as well as in municipal elections, under the same conditions as those applicable to nationals of that country. At the same time, the Directives lay down the conditions for the implementation of the principle of equality and non-discrimination of these citizens of the Union in the exercise of active and passive electoral rights. The exercise of these rights is closely linked to the membership of political parties. After the current law on local elections, the candidate can be appointed by the electorate with signatures on the one hand and, on the other hand, as you all know, by the political parties. In order to ensure a level playing field so that the candidate lists of political parties can actually include the citizens of the members of the European Union, it is necessary to establish the conditions for them to become members of a political party. In the current law on political parties, as you know, it is a prohibition that foreigners may be members of a political party and that membership in political parties is linked to citizenship. However, with the amendment of the law, once European citizenship has been established in the Republic of Slovenia, European citizens would also have the right to become members of political parties. This is a brief explanation for the first change. The second amendment concerns funding and is closely linked to it. This is because abroad, despite the prohibition provided for in Article 21 of the Law, [[This is a ban on the financing of clients from abroad]] may pay the membership fees and contributions of the members of the parties, but with any restrictions that are otherwise laid down in Article 22 of the Act. Well, and one more thing about funding. We propose to move the ceiling of the budgetary appropriations available to local communities for the financing of the parties in order to allow local communities to devote more resources to the financing of political parties, but in accordance with their budgetary capabilities and applicable public finances rules. In doing so, I would particularly like to point out that this option, as proposed by the Government, is only an opportunity and not an obligation for local communities to fund political parties in this increased amount in connection with local elections. I therefore propose that this law, this amendment, be supported, along with the amendments of the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u242	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the rapporteur to present the opinion of the Committee on the draft law. Chairman of the board, Mr Maximilian Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u243	I think that, given that the report has three sides and ultimately follows a simple decision, there was no special dilemma, except for the amendment they proposed, and the committee from, I will say, the more the protest did not want to adopt. Of course, that is why those of us who have participated in that debate will be supported by the amendment of the government. Otherwise, I think it is necessary to support the law, along with the amendments, that the committee has supported it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u244	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u245	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. A respected choir! I would also like to say before the assembly the Secretariat's concerns regarding the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group to provide in the third article for the deletion of the word "may" in the first paragraph of Article 26 of the current law, thereby establishing an obligation for local communities to finance the parties from their budgets. In fact, we have pointed out to the Committee by the secretariat that this would create a new obligation of local communities by law, for which they do not even have a system of resources to be provided in the future, and in particular they do not have the resources available in the current budgets, and that they should use the instruments available to them, i.e. substantial reallocations or even budget rebates, to form a fund for these purposes, which, in fact, does not even resolve when this amendment is adopted. Thus, it would even postpone the regime into future budgetary periods by placing municipalities or local communities in a financially unenviable position from this point of view. For this reason, we have said on the Committee that, from the point of view of the Secretariat, even the constitutionality of such an amendment would not be acceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u247	Your Honor, allow me to check in from the bench, because I'll be brief. To begin with, I will just quote the last sentence of the proposal's explanation: With the amendment of the law, local communities will be able to devote more money to the financing of political parties, in accordance with their budgetary capabilities. I think that all of us, especially those who once actively or passively participated in the preparation and adoption of municipal budgets, know that this is to a good extent also dependent on the state budget. By the proposer, at the moment or in the given situation of public finances in the Republic of Slovenia, it seems completely unrealistic to propose a change such that we will allocate financial resources to politicians through the funding of political parties through municipal budgets. It is not 30 days since we have been in the same cast here, we have been talking to the same minister about public sector salaries and there has been talk about the absence of funds in this country. It is not 30 days since the appearance of the Minister of Finance and says that the country's revenue does not accompany the country's expenditure, that it is a imbalance in order to need a rebalancing. And what can you afford for a politician? On purpose, allow me to say so, because we will not participate in this in the Slovenian National Party. This is that you will send the whole country to "sparing", and you will pay more financial resources to the politicians under pretext in those municipalities where this is possible. We all know that this will be in the good part of local communities within the Republic of Slovenia. I appeal, if not for another, on behalf of those civil servants who today have a referendum initiative to collect signatures for corrective wages, to at least not support, at least on behalf of such a law, which is so duplicity and imposes only and exclusively financial resources on political parties, to show this self-criticism and to say no. Let's be like the rest of the citizens. In the Slovenian National Party, for this reason in particular, I will not go into the right and obligations of the EU members of political parties, their financing, as we know that several groups of Members or political parties already have quite a bit of experience in this. We know exactly that the Court of Auditors is involved in this story of pre-election funding, but I'm not going to go through with it. Let's just look once at the human aspect. We will allocate money to ourselves, and this to a policy, an area that is least needed. But to those who really need it in this country, we don't want to give it. I urge you not to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u248	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented on behalf of the Parliamentary Group? [[...]] I'm sorry. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u249	Thank you very much. Allow me to briefly present the opinion of the New Slovenia Group. The Political Parties Act, adopted before the 1998 local elections, which allows 34 political parties to be registered, allows foreign members only exceptionally. Only if so provided in the party's statute. However, a foreigner may be an honorary member, but he must not support it materially, as the law prohibits the acquisition of funds from abroad. The government in the amendment of the law, following a reduced procedure, proposes that it be possible for the parties to become members of the European Union, which is recognised by law as an electoral right if they meet others by law certain conditions, which we think is right. The other thing I'd like to point out is funding. That is, the text of the bill contains a new provision regarding the resources acquired by the party from the local community if it obtains at least 50 votes in local elections needed to elect one member of the local community. It is now laid down that in the municipal budget a certain amount of funds should not exceed 30 tolars per voter voter and not 0,2% of the funds that the local community has determined under the rules governing the financing of municipalities. With a novelty, the proposer would like the proportion received by the client from the municipal budget to be determined in the same way as the shares of the state budget, up to 0.6% of the funds, which means an increase in funds with an index of 136 or a good 41 dollars per month in the voter's vote. The third thing we support, however, concerns the amendment tabled with regard to the equal position of political parties in obtaining funding from the municipal budget or providing political parties at the local level with equal financial conditions for action, which was now dependent on, we can say, the good will of the leaders in the individual municipality. However, given that we have decided on a multilateral system, we believe it is right to ensure a more equitable position of customers at local level in the financial area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u250	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. I did not receive any written applications for the debate. Mr Villa Trofenik, then Mr Tsukjat, first applied for a limited debate for five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u251	Thank you very much. I will only touch on the part of the amendment of the law concerning the increase of public budgetary resources for the operation of the parties in the municipal budgets. Yesterday I was deliberately silent, but yesterday the unacceptable amendment was difficult, I am talking about the mayor's salaries, 271 million at the level of the annual cost for the whole of Slovenia. The proposal proposed by the government weighs twice 327 million or 654 million, and ultimately hopes to say in explanation that there will be no financial consequences. Those who do not know that in the municipal councils political parties, through their saints, will make the most of it, that I will not say forced financing of the parties within the framework of the law, even more, in many congregations, and I believe that there has been anywhere else, valorised by past the law, of course they do not know the situation. And now I want to see these mentalists who were worried about a one-year early reconciliation last year for some who were heavy with 271 million, what are they going to say today when it comes to, like I said, two times 327 - why? - that anyone can control. The existing law doctrine is a bit strange, as well as a change of law, and I would expect them to use the terms used in the financing law. This is an appropriate spending, which is 163 billion in global for Slovenian municipalities in 2002. And each can calculate what 0.2% of these means and what 300% increase means, from 0.2 to 0.6. But there's something else that's interesting. That it is even a question of whether we are aware of the current funding of political parties. And it would be interesting to get an answer. The law, which was adopted in 2000, referred to monthly advances, then amendments or monthly amounts. The change that is now in force does not say anything about monthly amounts, and it is clear that it is 30 tolars per year. I ask, also this amendment, which is now proposed, what does it mean. Annual quota or appropriations authorised or monthly? The law does not specify or specify this. I will not repeat the comments of the secretariat, which I fully agree with. However, I think that just as it was politically unacceptable yesterday to accept an amendment of 271 million, it is at least so inappropriate to take this solution politically, which is intended to be 300 times or 300 percent or 3 times the increase. And you have to be aware of the storm. Political parties at the local level no longer have a guru of accounts. The centres have giro accounts and it is questionable whether the legal transfer of funds, such as or otherwise, from municipal budgets intended for the operation of political parties at the local level is through the giro accounts of the central for which there is no guarantee that these funds, under orders, will be deliberately used. And I think this is an attempt to put the financing of political parties, central, at the expense of local budgets and, of course, to these solutions, both in the bill and in the coalition amendment, particularly strongly oppose and I will vote against.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u252	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u253	Thank you for your word. The financing of political parties is certainly an important thing. Rather, it creates conditions in which the parties will be independent of or as independent as possible of economic, capital and that they will act on an equal footing by all parties, including those who do not have different bots in such places. And I believe that this is important at local level as well. The funds themselves probably already exist. I do not know a municipality where there would be no customer funding at local level, even at local level. On the other hand, if we retain the word “may, ” there is a risk that the congregations will make different decisions. And again, in municipalities where the ruling party has a lot of influence and roots in a certain capital segment, it would cause a somewhat discriminatory attitude towards other parties. So we suggest that we also delete the word "may". We believe that this does not mean such a serious intervention as was shown by the secretariat. At the same time, we believe that the proposal or amendment proposed by the LDS Group is not very controversial and can be implemented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u254	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President, distinguished Minister, colleagues and colleagues! In large part, I agree with what colleague Villa Trofenik has been discussing. But I'd only ask two questions or one. First of all, I would like to know what provision of this amendment of the law makes it impossible for cases of new kalanders. And second question: Is it true that the Ministry of the Interior is preparing a change in the law on societies following a rapid procedure in the part where companies should also establish legal persons? This is a very important issue which can also be very much linked to the law on political parties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u257	Thank you so much for saying that. As far as the last two questions are concerned. It is not true that the Ministry of the Interior is preparing a law on societies on a rapid basis. It is true, however, that it is preparing a new law on societies, which is already in the debate in the professional public, where there is a large number of conceptual changes and not a rapid change of this kind that you are asking for. As far as questions relating to kalandri are concerned, if I understand correctly. This law is not dealt with as I explained in the introduction, with such questions. This is a law that we adopt for absolutely certain reasons, to settle two issues, one is to settle the issue of membership in political parties for European citizens and the other is to regulate funding and further increase funding by local communities. In preparation for this law, there was also a talk about whether he might go into a more extensive revision of the law on political parties in order to close certain movements, questions, or legal grounds in the law for the doubts of this kind you are talking about. However, it has been decided that the law we adopt after a reduced procedure is not an opportunity for a more thorough revision of the issues of this type. In short, in this regard, marriage brings nothing new. I would also like to comment on the discussions of some other respected colleagues and the amendment of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. With regard to this amendment, where it is proposed to release the word "may" to this proposal, the Government has adopted a negative position on the grounds that this would mean that, from now on, the optional definition of the possibility of local communities financing political parties, in accordance with their financial capabilities, would transform the formulation into an obligation for local communities to finance political parties. We are proposing that such an arrangement, where the law would impose an obligation on local communities to finance political parties, would at the same time constitute a State obligation towards local communities. Because if we impose a financial obligation on them, we are also establishing a mandatory relationship with local communities, which the state does not propose at this time, because it considers that the State budget does not have the possibility to finance local elections, and remains in the regime as it is now, so that political parties can be financed from funds, i.e. the budgets of local communities. The change is only, as you all know very well, that the height is increasing, the scope of this option is still optional. Here I am partly responsible to my colleague Trofenik or his calculation, who has taken the entire budgetary settlement as the basis of his multiplication. We don't think that's gonna happen. We hope that not all municipalities will take advantage of this option to the maximum, and it is true that this maximum is increased to a considerable extent or enough, especially after the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee, when an important criterion which the government has put in place as a fuse has been put in place to prevent disproportionate increases. You are probably familiar with the proposal of a government text, which, in addition to a permissible increase of 0.2 to 0.6, says that a vote cannot be worth more than a vote for elections in the National Assembly. I can tell you that this vote currently stands at 39 SIT and that on average the level of funding under the applicable law is on average 30 SIT, although the differences between municipalities are very large, but the government proposal would on average mean - I stress, on average, not in individual municipalities - that this increase should not be more than 30%, from 30 to 39 SIT. This, of course, does not mean a 300% increase yet. However, we believe that local communities, especially where they have closer financial opportunities, will not take full advantage of this threshold. And I'd like to add this. Yesterday's debate on mayor's salaries, however, had an additional financial dimension, namely the systemic dimension. If we had made that decision, we would have begun to undermine the system that we just built. And the financial dimension is not what was said here. I would like to remind you of the special report we have prepared regarding the financial implications of the implementation of that unaccepted amendment. There is a number of all the consequences, including the accompanying, additional, implementation of this amendment, a billion and sixty million tolars at the annual level. And that's what I'd like to say. We clearly believe that the law states that the amount we are talking about is, in short, this increased option is measured for a year or at an annual level. The text explicitly says 'for this year', meaning that the text leaves no doubt of this type, that someone would think that this amount is on a monthly level or otherwise.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u258	Thank you very much. First the replica, Mr. Trophynik, then Mr. Pucko. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u259	Thank you for your word. On the correctness of the calculation, Mr Minister, on yesterday's amendment, I suggest we confront each other, and I will apologize with the ashes if mine is wrong. Apparently, someone prepared it for you to argue the opposition. I didn't pick up last night. But I'm going to calculate here how much the amendment weighs, because I've been recalculating the amendment and I know exactly what it is, and I'm taking full responsibility. Now, I'm going to start with the last part of your performance, that thirty dollars is an annual amount and that that sequel is a year's worth. Now I'm going to illustrate what this looks like in the case of the last local elections. A million and a half are voters, electoral beneficiaries, without Copra, and I apologize for only 58% of the voter turnout, which is twenty-six million, when I calculate eight hundred thousand, and the second round, when it was for mayors, is eleven million five hundred and all eighty million. Now, of course, my calculation, which I told you before, is under the assumption of 100%, which in practice does not happen, because, I don't know, a lot of important numbers I think most mayors are out-chosen, customers don't belong to anything. The elections of some non-participating councillors are also important and, of course, they have nothing to do with the uncoordinated criteria of thirty tolars after the vote received and 0.2, as the text says, I will not say anything wrong, the resources that the local community has defined by the rules governing the financing of municipalities and by which it can ensure the implementation of constitutional laws. If I translate this into the language of the Law on the Financing of the Communities, this is an appropriate use and I apologize, you probably had a lapsus when you said a financial settlement because it is substantially smaller. In any event, the resources needed to carry out constitutional and other tasks are necessary, a reasonable expenditure, which is in the 2002 budget of 163 billion and a few hundred million tolars. 0.2 is that much, 0.6 is that much, or if I finish very much at home. The right to 30 tolars does not even benefit from a quota of 0.2 and I do not know why they would then increase to 0.6 because these two criteria are not fundamentally harmonised. Of course, I would expect something else from the proposer or the proposer. 30 tolls is the starting price, if I say so, from 1994, if I'm not mistaken. In the meantime, of course, there was inflation, and I went to look for official data, and if they were correct and valorized without this year's forecast, that should be 46% more. However, if we were to calculate this year before the assumption that this would apply for the second year, or for the new term or after the new elections, that is 71% more. A correct proposal would be that 30 tolars should in some appropriate way be valorised, as they would then also challenge in the past and in some cases in the present practice that the parties should be financed in an insufficient way from municipal budgets through the costs of the council groups. I know that this has been the case, and it has been the case in many ways, because few municipalities have this arranged in a manner similar to the National Assembly, that the cost of the secular group in the municipal world is incurred through the gyre of the municipality’s accounts, and many are channelled, and there fantastic compensations are recognised in some municipalities, including 80,000 tolars per saint and so on, and these funds are flowing. Tobi, of course, expected the government to look at these two segments comprehensively and come with an appropriate solution. Such a solution, as is once again here, is inadequate and at least so inadequate is the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u260	Thank you very much. Mr. Pucko, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u261	Thank you very much. If I consider the answer to the second question, which is not the point of the agenda, I cannot understand your answer to my first question. In terms of the reduced procedure, you have tried to respond by not allowing for substantive amendments to the law. This can be true, but I would expect from a responsible and serious government, especially because you did not or did not know what your representatives had to say about the indirect financing of political parties in the past. So I won't name any cases negligently. That's why I'm surprised you didn't put that in the law. Especially since the marriage was filed more than three months ago. It was published in the Rapporteur on 28 February this year. I don't know. I don't understand that the government doesn't want us to, because as legislator, we are responsible for the proper conduct of the political parties we belong to and represent here. So I'm really surprised you weren't able to or didn't want to, because I don't know which term is better. The result is that this correction or this improvement is not in order to prevent or reduce opportunities for indirect financing by political parties. Thank you very much. I'm not answering anymore because you can't answer me with any answer. Because that's not what it is. The article or amendment shall have beautiful corrections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u262	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word? Because no, I am concluding the general debate and we are moving on to a second reading. We are moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will lead the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments and decide and also discuss the amendment of the government, which is not in the review and is tabled under Article 1. The proposal to amend the law itself has five articles, so we will go in a row. The review of the amendments shall be carried out on 23.5.2002. I am putting to the debate the first article, which is not in the review, and the Government's amendment to this article. I am opening a debate on Article 1 and the amendment of the Government. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment of the government. We're voting. The first vote on the government's amendment was not successful. Could I have your attention, please? Colleagues and colleagues in the vicinity, please join us, especially taking into account the reason why the leaders of the parliamentary groups are in an international conversation, so I ask the other colleagues and colleagues to join us so that we can make a valid decision. Secondly, we will decide on the Government's amendment to Article 1. We're voting. The second vote was not successful either. There's enough of us in the hall. Third time we'll vote, in 10 minutes we'll be deciding on the amendment for the third time, at 5.38 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u263	Your Honor! For the third time, we will vote on the Government's amendment to Article 1 and thus indirectly establish the presence in the Chamber at the third vote on the Government's amendment to Article 1. So this is the third time we've decided. We're voting. There are 55 of us present. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on Article 1 as a whole. We're voting. There are 51 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 1 is fully adopted. At the warnings of some Members, since I have interrupted the third reading by half an hour for the preparation of the data requested by Members and Members after the vote, I interrupt this item, item 5 of the agenda and return to item 4. It's a day's work. We suspended it before deciding on the amendment to article 11 following the decision of Members and Members to provide us with the information requested by Mr Tanko or Mr Sušnik after a given recess. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u264	Thank you. According to our data, the number of 5,000 or we have calculated 505,378 inhabitants, which number can be reached by 130 municipalities, of the 371 smallest population, Hodoš, up to and including 8,5000 people. So 130 municipalities, 505,378 people.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u265	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u266	Thank you very much. Here you can see the dimension of this amendment. The last 130 municipalities, mainly rural municipalities, will never meet the criteria of a quarter of the population if we go from now on. With the amendment adopted, things with regard to the association are greatly exacerbated. In fact, only the city’s municipalities and some of the largest or former municipalities where the administrative units were established meet these conditions so that they can establish a separate association with the status of representative association. The other 129 municipalities do not have any options in this respect and I think that these municipalities are in violation of their rights to represent the interests of the environment in which they are established; they do not have the possibility of association; they cannot constitute any quality basis for mating and to discuss with the state authorities because they will lose their status; and they are, in fact, without regard to the fact that we accept such matters and disable local self-government. Therefore, I think that what has been written here, or this amendment, which has been tabled, should be very well thought out, allowing the municipalities to accept the association or also to consider what the status of the representative association means, or whether this status is, in view of what has now been submitted and what I have also said, still makes sense. I think that this status of representative association is no longer meaningful because it is too deeply encroaching on the freedom of assembly of municipalities in the sense of unification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u268	I'm asking one more question. In fact, we have put 130 municipalities with fewer than 8,000 inhabitants into a second plan with such a solution. I therefore ask the Minister or the Government's job for local self-government whether this is now any new frontier for us to know at the end of the day also how we should be expected to proceed. Because you have actually disabled 130 municipalities, which have fewer than 8,000 inhabitants. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u270	Now, I think the information given is being manipulated a little bit. As far as I know, one of the associations that has been set up has already met the condition that the amendment has already been proposed. When we discussed these quorums on the Committee to be acquired by the Association for the Status of Representation, we had yet another objective ahead of our eyes. This is so that they would not be united only if I could use this expression, as I have heard, of the rural congregations and, on the other hand, of the urban, large ones. This would be a conflict of interest between large and smaller. It is precisely that representation should also mean that they are so large, small and medium in this association. And if you add only two large city halls or one to the information you are now providing, we will get a different picture. There are no more 130 congregations needed, but only what we have determined. How else should we define some representation than that we have set two criteria, cumulative, population, and number of municipalities. If we went only to the number of people, one or two municipalities, say Maribor and Ljubljana as the largest, would have the greatest representativeness and would also drive those small thirsty ones through the water. Let us determine whether this quorum, which is, is real. I think it is. Nowhere does this amendment prejudice the right of any congregation to unite. We are without prejudice to the right of any congregation to be a member of both associations, three or four, where it can satisfy its interests. The municipalities of both associations have already been designated. It's artificially created here, and now 130, of course, if you just look at this number, you can get disgusted. 130 congregations need to be able to set up, no, three associations can set up, or be representative, but another issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u271	Thank you very much. Mr. Candy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u272	I mean, I'm sure it's the goal of these efforts to enable integration and not define representativeness. The purpose of all of this is to bring together congregations of similar interests, to articulate these interests in their association and to represent them to other institutions. I think that this is how conflicts of interest are resolved and not in a way that prevents them from joining together or reaching representativeness. Surely small congregations will have different interests, at least in some respects, like large congregations. I think that if we are to create a mechanism to resolve these conflicts in the future, we need to allow them to unite and represent their interests together. I don't know why we're afraid of that. I fear that if we do not allow this to happen, there will be a great deal of dissatisfaction in small congregations, which will be articulated in a different, disorderly, undemocratic way. I don't think that's our wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u274	Now that I listened to Mr Wolf's torture, he argued that more than 130 municipalities were needed if we wanted to join the association. I think, fellows, or gentlemen, come with the right cards out. In your opinion, we do not need to talk about local self-government, but say that this is the law on the central administration of Slovenian municipalities. And let there be, two, three congregations having an association, and surely they will decide and command on behalf of all. That's what you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, please allow me to warn you before we proceed to your decision. The SDS Group tabled two amendments to Article 11. One is in the set of amendments that they have tabled and the other is on a special sheet, the same as Article 11. We will first decide what is on the special sheet and is located alone and says that the seventh paragraph of Article 11 is deleted. In paragraphs 8 and 9, the word "representative" shall be deleted. If this amendment is adopted, the amendment currently under discussion will be irrelevant. This amendment, however, is in addition to the amendment to Article 13 and Article 14, which is included in the set. This amendment, which we will first decide on, has been tabled by the Group of Members on a special paper. Do we understand? Okay. So we're moving on to a decision. First, on the amendment of the SDS Group to delete the seventh paragraph and as it continues. So to Article 11, first of all, this amendment with a footnote, if adopted, we will not decide on the amendment, which is where the set of amendments is. Let's vote! There are 59 Members and Members present. The vote was 19 to 35. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 35.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are now deciding on the amendment to Article 11, where the content of "at least one quarter of the municipalities in the area of which it resides" is replaced by the text "at least one fifth" of the same applicants. Let's vote! There are 61 of us present. 25 votes against 34. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 34.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on the amendment to Article 12, which proposes four parliamentary groups: LDS, the United List of Social Democrats, SLS and DeSUS. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Trophynik, then Mr. Scholch. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u276	Thank you. Now it may be a little strange to hear that I will oppose an amendment whose co-signatory is also my parliamentary group, but unfortunately so. You know, the previous debate, we could call it a square circle. I discussed it yesterday, but I made a mistake to answer the question I asked the minister myself. Representation, a former colleague of praise would say, is not a European category. This legislation here doesn't know her. But we wanted to introduce something, and now we've come up with a problem of the square circle that's insurmountable. He's been very helpful in the solution so far, if you want representativeness, then you have to have at least two criteria for majority. This is the majority of municipalities and most of the population. But when we started a compromise to get a little bit of one, a little bit of the other, we came up with a problem that's not going to end well. What is the problem with this amendment? See, paragraph 11, I think that this fifth paragraph, which is adopted and applicable, says: "Association" - a general association, not representative - "represents the interests of its members before the State authorities when they formulate or adopt laws or other regulations" and the amendment says in paragraph 1: "Representatives of the Communities' Associations or representatives of each self-government local community shall be invited to meetings of working bodies when they are considered by the proposals of the law." [[...]] It is said, with this amendment, that this paragraph brings back to life what we have already put at our disposal and what is the meaning of association. We have opened up a free option of association, which is good, by the interests, but now we are denying it in the next article or we are tying it into an impossible matter. This is what the first paragraph concerns. In the second paragraph, however, the matter is at stake, however previously government officials tried to tell me. This proposal, which you have written, reads: "Before the final drafting of the laws proposed by the government," because another law can be proposed, those laws that the government will not propose in this area will be dealt with in some other way than those that the government will deal with, which is unacceptable again. Again, the word or addition, "representative associations, that they have the right to participate in the adoption of laws", is not appropriate or simply unacceptable. It is strange, however, that this amendment in this part must obtain the opinion of the Minister responsible for local self-government whether local communities have been asked in a timely and appropriate manner for an opinion. The minister can make a statement whether they were or were not, what will he give an opinion on - on what basis? - a statement must be made, confirmed or not. All together is an attempt of one, excuse me, one-boiled ones - we would have let one another in, and we would not have let the other in, and we would have made one big circus out of all of it. Otherwise, I have overlooked that I cannot invest as an individual of the amendment, I have no other option, so I do not have any choice but to ask for the realisation of the applicants and to correct their amendment accordingly, so that there will not be inadequate solutions if we have already legislated the impossible situation with this representation, which will make a whole lot of problems and will in advance share in the quality of the local self-government of the basic cell, these are local communities, which unfortunately will show the practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u277	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I'm going to oppose this amendment myself. Part of the arguments were made by Comrade Trofenik, but I have other concerns myself. In principle, I think - but this is not, I will say, the question of Article 12 - the mistaken idea that what is expected as the consent of local communities can be carried out through this procedure of representatives. But this is a discussion that is likely to be triggered by congregations. Here, I understand to some extent that they are trying to overcome an impossible situation with these representatives of local communities. What makes me opposed to this first paragraph is, I'll say, a purely legislative procedure. Here I would ask my colleagues to listen to this argument despite the fact that it is 6 p.m. and that they are negotiating for other meetings. It is not possible in this law or, I will say, no, it is not possible to regulate in this law things that are governed by the rules of procedure of the national assembly or the working bodies. We practically legislate some additional procedure with this law, and with this, I will say, on a precedent, open up opportunities for all those who have been, I will say, driven out of the process of making these different decisions. Let's say trade chambers, like trade unions and so on. The legislative process, as it was conceived years ago, was entirely subject to the autonomy of Members and Parliament. Now, with these mandatory, once-in-a-lifetime opinions, secondly, I don't know what kind of papers we're practically working Parliament for a prisoner of something that we shouldn't be. Of course I do not oppose the practice which is now that different people who have something about different things are invited to these meetings. But this thing, if it goes that way, will end up not only on the working bodies, but that they will speak slowly here as well. They'll talk more than we do, and we'll listen to them, and we'll try to please them. That is, I will say, the practice of working in the working bodies where the presidents ask if anyone would take over from whom the amendment so that the discussion can proceed. It's a twisted thing and it's wrong. From this point of view, this must be prevented. It's probably necessary to make another amendment, I don't know if it's still possible, or to fix it, to go back and delete what was done at the second stage. But my argument in paragraph 1 is that Parliament should remain a parliament, not give it different weights, which seem very pleasant, but block some decision-making. That's why it doesn't belong in there and we don't have anything. The second is what is being introduced in the new third paragraph and what I understand clearly. What is the Minister's opinion on government law? The government is proposing a law and why a minister would have a special opinion on it. It's something that's completely new. If the minister is sitting at a government meeting, the government has a procedure to take decisions, but it must ensure that the procedure is appropriate. But to bring the government into a situation where we have here, say, an opinion or an act of government and some opinion of a government member to this act, that is madness.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u279	Can you finish the thought, Mr. Skolč? Time is up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u280	I can, I apologize for being a little longer because I barely concentrated on all this noise. But since I sometimes do it myself, I didn't dare protest. For these reasons, I object for purely procedural, first and second reasons, and I suggest that the leaders of the parliamentary groups take this break and write something smart by morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-29-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u281	Thank you very much. As I have also heard from Mr Kebric and Mr Sušnik in the debate on the amendment to article 12, I am putting an end to this item on the agenda. Tomorrow at 10 a.m., we will continue with the adjourned 3rd item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law on local self-government, then we will continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the bill on political parties and then we will move on to 6th and 6th and then on the agenda. Thank you very much and good-bye.
