ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u1	Please take your seats, I'll determine the presence in the hall so that we can start the 12th session. Dear colleagues, distinguished ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Rule 49 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please take your seats. I would like to inform you first of who is unable to attend due to the retention of the meeting: colleague Sonja Areh Lavrič, colleague Dr Merlo, colleague Majnikova, colleague Podobnik, colleague Janez mag. Kramberger, colleague Peterle, Dr Bernik, colleague Kebrich and colleague Kangler. These are the apologies I got before the session started. Now, I ask you to establish the presence in the hall. Please insert your cards and press the "quorum" button to determine the presence in the hall. We're picking up a presence at the hall. Due to the lack of attention, you did not press the "quorum" button in the hall. That's why I'm gonna ask for peace in the hall first. We'll rediscover the presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're in the middle of detecting presence, please press the "quorum" button. There are 47 Members and Members present in the Chamber. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. The meeting was also attended by the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, Minister and Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I'd like to say hello to the invitees between us. Before setting the agenda for this meeting, we will proceed with the procedure for the adoption of the minutes of the 10th meeting and the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. As usual, the logs are for viewing the computer network. Do any of the respected colleagues have any comments on them? I guess not. So we can move on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. We shall first vote on the minutes of the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. I'm putting the motion to a vote. We vote on the minutes of the 10th meeting of the National Assembly. 51 colleagues and colleagues are present. 45 votes in favour, one against. [[45 voted in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the minutes of the 10th meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. As there were no comments to the minutes of the 11th extraordinary meeting, we are moving on to a decision on the adoption of the minutes. Please vote! There are 51 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. 44 supported them, no one opposed him. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the minutes of the 11th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly have been adopted. This way we can move on to the agenda of the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. You received the draft agenda by reference to 15 January 2002. First, we will move on to proposals for the withdrawal of individual items from the agenda. I haven't gotten any withdrawals so far. A colleague of mags. The Vizjak has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. President! I propose the withdrawal of the 37th item of the agenda. This is mainly because it does not meet the business conditions for consideration. I have before me the applicable Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which provide in Article 53 that only matters for which the conditions laid down in this Rules of Procedure may be included in the draft agenda. Article 52 provides that the material must be, these are the reports of the working bodies and the rest transmitted to Members at the latest by the final reference of the meeting. I note that the mother's working body has not yet fully completed its consideration of the 37th item on the agenda and, of course, it is far from drawing up a report on this item on the agenda. I would like to point out that the point of content is very problematic and can form a sample example of how similar matters will be resolved in the future, so I think that this national assembly must devote a maximum of time to this issue on the basis of the principle. Therefore, on behalf of the Socialist Party Group, I propose the withdrawal of this point so that the working body has sufficient time to be fully aware of the circumstances that have arisen, of course, that it also adopts the report and that we have Members, in accordance with this Rules of Procedure, on time on the table, so that we can also make a serious and responsible decision. I therefore propose, in view of the failure to meet the business conditions, to withdraw this item from the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u3	A colleague of mags. Vizjak, I am not even allowed to comment on the content of the proposal from this place, and I am obliged to provide an explanation in accordance with the procedure. In accordance with Parliamentary practice, matters which are dealt with in the National Assembly in a single-phase manner, and this is the procedure, shall be dealt with in a rapid manner. The National Assembly may refer them to the meeting without prior consideration of this point by the mother's working body. The report of the home working body on the handling of those cases can therefore be submitted to Members later, even during the meeting of the national assembly at which the matter is included. You are correct, however, that, in accordance with Rule 55 of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly does not have to decide if the competent authority does not prepare a report before that. Would you like to speak to the employee's reporter? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They want to.]] He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u4	Your Honors are here! In the Slovenian National Party, we support Mr Visjak's proposal, on behalf of the Social Democratic Party, for the withdrawal of the point, for one simple reason in particular, because the content of this point defines a novelty in Slovenian political and also local life, and it is appropriate that Members, Members' groups and working bodies should take up this position or the content of the proposed agenda item specifically, a quality opinion that will be drawn up on the longer term relevance of the problem. I personally believe that the National Assembly, and especially the Government of the Republic of Slovenia should not merely, exclusively politically define the problem mentioned, which will also take place in the future, especially if we take one position this time, next time, we will probably take an analogy in the following cases. As a result, in the Slovenian National Party, the proposal for withdrawal seems useful, as also mentioned by the motioner for withdrawal, for failure to comply with the rules of procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the group want a word? Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u6	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! This is a case-by-case case of getting rid of the mayor of a small municipality. We know that this is part of an attempt to influence and frighten small municipalities and mayors of small municipalities to act more resiliently. We also know that there is a new law on the financing of municipalities in preparation, and this discharge by Mayor Velika Polane is aimed at preparing mayors of small municipalities to prepare themselves in the process of adopting this new law, which will go against it, against small municipalities, which will significantly affect all municipalities in the demographicly threatened area, so that they will not come forward in the process of adopting this law, so that they will not act organised to protest, and therefore this is one of the key reasons for this point to withdraw. We are absolutely against [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u7	Can I interrupt you, Comrade Jerovšek?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u8	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u9	Can I interrupt you, Comrade Jerovšek? May I ask that there be peace in the Chamber for a concentrated audience of speakers? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u10	We are absolutely against the political abuse of the mayor of the municipality in which he was systematically obstructed by the municipal council in order to bring the government's service for local self-government to this point, so that the mayor of the municipality will then find him on duty. And another political reason is why it came to this right now. We know that there is an extremely large social bomb in Pomurje to go to the labour market of 2,000 Mura workers, and the government wants to divert attention from these social bombs and poor management in some way from its personnel in this company to the focus on a marginal municipality, and thus the government wants to shoot two flies at a glance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Comrade Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u12	First of all, I'm going to abuse and apologize for failing to get words from you as Chairman of the Internal Policy Committee. I was away. On behalf of the parliamentary group, however, I would say that we are not in favour of this point withdrawing, because today it will be common knowledge that the Committee's meeting dealing with this proposal will continue on Friday at 2 p.m. Well, and I am sure that next week, when this point could come to a meeting of the National Assembly, a report has been prepared, and also Members and Members will have time to get to know it. Therefore, what will be the decision of the Committee cannot be predicted, but in our Group of Members, we believe that there are so many important issues that need to be addressed and stated on this proposal that it is precisely for the general prevention reasons that this process must be carried out to the end. What and how it will end is, of course, a question that is not just about our parliamentary group but about the entire national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to emphasise two points in the consideration of the proposal to initiate the procedure. Obviously, some would like to subject local self-government to political pressure. I don't think that for future local government and for people's lives that would be good. Secondly, the colleague himself mentioned before me, on behalf of the LDS Group, that there are still a number of unresolved technical issues, substantive issues on this issue or on this proposal. So it would be very reckless for the National Assembly to go into such a matter, for which we know things to be cleared. So, I mean, in our Group of Members, we are confident that this would make a very bad move and very bad consequences for local self-government in our country. As we know, we have relatively short experience with local self-government, and that would be like fresh salt, a young grass that has barely started. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Any other qualified speakers want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Okay, then please. [[...]] Unfortunately, I cannot give you a word here because you cannot speak on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u16	As a single Member.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u17	As an independent Member, you cannot speak in accordance with the rules of procedure we have. Just a moment of advice. Yes, I regret to insist on my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, but of course the National Assembly can also change it. It also states in paragraph that a representative of the parliamentary group may make a statement on the positions. So, unfortunately, I can't give you a word right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u18	Yes, Mr. President, I'm sorry, but thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u19	No, I can't give you a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u20	You just challenged me. In view of the fact that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have expressed their proposal, while the members of the parliamentary group have also come forward in this debate to withdraw this point.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u21	No, no, you're wrong. Unfortunately, I cannot give you the floor in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. The text was given by representatives of the parliamentary groups, no one spoke twice except, of course, the proposer, who happens to be from the same parliamentary group as usual. So, yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u22	Mr President, I expect from you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u23	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u24	to propose, in terms of democratic criteria in Slovenia, that the Rules of Procedure should be amended and that a single Member, or possibly also a single Member Group, may take part in the consideration of the agenda itself. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u25	This can be agreed upon. However, until this amendment, the text of Article 64 must be taken into account and, unfortunately, on the basis of it alone, I cannot give you a word. We're moving to the vote. So we have a proposal from a fellow magician. A visionary to withdraw the proposed 37th item from the agenda. We're voting. We vote on the motion to withdraw. We vote on the motion to withdraw. 63 colleagues and colleagues were present and 22 and 41 were voted against. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 41.]] The withdrawal proposal did not receive the necessary support and was therefore not accepted. Is there any other proposal for a withdrawal? Then we can move on to proposals to expand the agenda. Anybody want a word? I see you don't. That is why we can move on to a debate and a decision on proposals for the adoption of the law by means of a rapid procedure. I ask for peace in the hall. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted a proposal for a law on livestock for consideration by the assembly. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the bill by means of a rapid procedure. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Secretariat? [[Neither do I.]] I give my word to the parliamentary groups. Comrade Jerovšek? [[No, no, ……]] Just a minute. Could you please join us? I didn't hear you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u26	I don't understand why you skipped the rapid procedure at point 9.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u27	It's a transfer point. This was decided at the previous meeting, Comrade Jerovšek. Is the explanation accepted? Thank you. Would representatives of the parliamentary groups like to speak on the proposal for a livestock law? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law, i.e. the proposal for a livestock law, on a rapid basis. We're voting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u28	I'm against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u29	You can turn yourself off, Comrade Jerovšek. 62 Members and Members are present. 42 supported them, 13 opposed them. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on enforcement and insurance. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body does not support the adoption of a proposal for a fast-track law. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[Yeah.]] Comrade Lavrinc, president.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u30	First of all, I would remind Members and Members that the Committee on the Economy, which called for an interested party at this point, supported the rapid procedure. We, as a parent working body, are a real committee for internal policy, but we considered that it was such an important and substantive change that, of course, it was necessary for the profession to give time to adopt the law then on a regular basis. This also allows us to get a new law that will be good in a short time. By the way, what led us to this? So far, virtually always, whenever any law that has systematically intervened in an area has been adopted by a rapid procedure, not all comments have been heard and, of course, the result of our work has been appropriate. If you look only at when this law was passed and how much trouble it actually causes in practice. This is what MEPs and Members from all in fact sent to propose to the National Assembly that the law be treated on a regular basis. I don't think there's gonna be any particularly serious offenses to the motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to representatives of the groups of Members if they so wish. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 65 colleagues and colleagues attended, 10 against, 50 against. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 50.]] I note that the Government's proposal is not adopted. This means that we will treat it as a proposal for a law at first reading. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law on measures to remedy the consequences, to prevent the spread and establishment of larger-scale terrestrial beaches. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Until the proposal for the adoption of a rapid procedure, the parent working body was not identified. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. 61 Members and Members were present, 47 were in favour, 6 against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal to adopt the law is adopted on a rapid basis. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted to the assembly for consideration a proposal for a law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for loans from a loan leased by the Republic of Slovenia's Environmental Development Fund, a public fund, to the European Investment Bank for the financing of environmental projects project, and proposes to the assembly to adopt it as soon as possible. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body supports the adoption of the law by means of a rapid procedure. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the rapporteur of the parent's working body? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Neither do I.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 63 members and Members present, 48 supported by the proposal, 5 opposed to it. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Dear colleague Maria Possonec submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law restricting the advertising of alcoholic beverages. The Council proposes that the law be adopted in a swift manner. Does the billmaker want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Until the proposal for the adoption of the draft law, the work of the mother body was not defined. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Members of the groups shall have the floor if they so wish. [[They don't want to.]] I am voting on the proposal to adopt that law as soon as possible. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 39 supported by the proposal, 7 opposed it. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it that the proposal of colleague Pozsoncheva has been adopted. A group of Members with a first-signed counterpart, Zmob Jelinčič, submitted a proposal for a law supplementing the takeover law for consideration by the assembly. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does the proposer's representative want a word? [[He's not here. He's not here.]] Until the proposal for the adoption of a rapid procedure, the parent working body was not identified. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[Neither do I.]] I give the floor to the parliamentary groups if they want to make their views known. [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. We are moving on to a decision on a rapid procedure for the adoption of a law supplementing the takeover law. There are 50 Members and Members present. 37 supported them, 8 opposed them. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I note that the proposal for a decision following a rapid procedure has been adopted. A group of Members with a first-signed colleague, Saš Pečet, tabled a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the anti-competitive law. It is proposed that the Assembly adopt it as soon as possible. Does my colleague want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The parent working body has not been defined until this proposal. He wants to give his position to the secretariat? [[He doesn't want to.]] The government? Neither do I. Emissary groups? [[No, no, ……]] We will therefore move on to a decision on the proposal to adopt that law quickly. We're voting. There are 58 colleagues and colleagues present in the hall. There were 40 for, and six for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Colleagues and colleagues! We are moving on to a debate and a decision on the proposal to adopt legislation in the short term. Excuse me? Comrade Jerovšek, procedurally. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u32	In accordance with Rule 202 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that we re-decision on the speedy procedure for the proposal of the Feed Law. Indeed, on behalf of the SDS Group of Members, we propose that this law be dealt with on a regular basis. This is justified by the fact that there is no exceptional situation in the field of feed and all that the proposed law deals with. However, there are exceptional conditions in Slovenian livestock industry. And if we are to have serious reflection and serious consideration of this law because of the exceptional situation in Slovenian livestock industry. Indeed, even in the view of the breeders' union and all others working in the field of livestock farming, this law, in the form it is now proposed, will increase red tape in the field of agriculture and make the situation of breeders worse. However, there is already a worrying situation in Slovenia in this area, as the reckless provisions of some laws have increased the role of both state bureaucracy and veterinary bureaucracy, all together, and some natural disasters such as mad cow disease, which have also fallen on the shoulders of breeders. That's right, those slaughterhouse trash. As a result, all of this has fallen on the shoulders of the breeders and, as a result, our parliamentary group pleads for consideration and normal treatment of this law. I must point out that yesterday, in a discussion with the breeder's union, Minister Booth acknowledged that the government does not have a hearing for the troubles of breeders that last year are extraordinary funds that should go from the means of the reserve, that is to say, to remedy the emergency situation following the outbreak of mad cows' disease, that they were taken from regular resources that should be used to account for structural changes in agriculture, to improve the situation of Slovenian agriculture before entering the European Union, it is said that government policy is totally contrary to what should lead us to some good condition in the field of agriculture, especially livestock farming, prior to joining the European Union. For this reason, we object to the fact that such an important law, which redefines an agency and I do not know what is going on - as I have already mentioned - at the expense of the foster parents - is being dealt with in a rapid manner. There are no valid reasons for adopting this law by means of a rapid procedure, without proper consideration, to make the situation of breeders, livestock farming in Slovenia, which is already in catastrophic condition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, perhaps the National Assembly will take your arguments for deciding on the law by normal procedure and not by fast, as it has already adopted in determining the agenda. So when this item is on the agenda, you can make such a proposal. We cannot change the agenda of the decision, which has already been adopted. After the end of the first hearing, however, give your proposal and we will decide on it. The first-signed colleague, Mr Janša, presented a proposal for amendments to the maritime code for consideration by the assembly. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Would you like to speak to the proposer? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body agrees with the proposal. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. Before we move to a decision, I would like to point out that the proposal to adopt the Code after a reduced procedure will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal to pass the law on a reduced basis. There are 58 Members and Members present, 52 of whom were in favour, 4 against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has submitted a proposal for a law amending the law on the provision of dedicated means for the construction of state roads set out in the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. The Council proposes to adopt it in a simplified manner. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The mother's working body agrees with the proposal. Does the president want a word? He doesn't want to.) Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do I give the floor to representatives of the parliamentary groups? I conclude this debate, and in this case I also point out that a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a shorter procedure. We are in the middle of a vote on the proposal for a reduced procedure. There are 59 Members and Members present, 47 supported by the proposal, 5 opposed to the proposal. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand he's been accepted. The National Assembly is discussing proposals for the adoption of a proposal for a feed law following a rapid procedure, a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the agricultural land and forests of the Republic of Slovenia and a bill amending and supplementing the law on public roads following a reduced procedure, as I have already said at the 10th or 11th meeting, so this time it is not necessary to decide. This way we can move, colleagues and colleagues, to a vote on the agenda, as we have received by reference, along with the amendments and additions adopted. We are voting on the draft agenda. Please, if you'll excuse me. There are 60 Members and Members present. There were 46 in favour, 7 in favour. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the agenda of the 12th meeting of the assembly has been adopted. Two notifications. Today at the college, we were trying to figure out how good it would be to propose dealing with individual agenda items in order to make this very broad agenda as successful as possible. I propose to the assembly that, taking into account the proposal and the request of the Prime Minister, we begin today with the questions raised by the Members at 3 p.m. and 30 minutes. To decide on Friday at 10 a.m. on the resignation of Minister Bavčar and the Prime Minister's proposal to appoint a new Minister for European Affairs, Dr Potočnik. Also, we're going to do the election of a judge on Friday. Next Thursday, at 10 a.m., we would probably consider the interpretation point, and between the 12th meeting and its conclusion, if business conditions are to be met, we must also proceed with the procedure for the appointment or election of two representatives of the national assembly in the three-member Slovenian delegation to the European Convention. Finally, I would like to inform you that, yesterday, 21.1., at the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, the head of our delegation and our fellow Member, Roman Jakič, on the proposal of the European Liberal Democratic Parties, was elected president of the political committee of the Assembly. He was elected unanimously with the support of all parliamentary groups in the congregation. With this election Roman Jakič became the first Slovenian president of the political committee. I would like to send sincere congratulations to my fellow Member on behalf of all of us in Strasbourg and wish him a successful job. [[Let's hear it.]] Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, I'm adjourning the session until 3.25 p.m. At 3 pm and 30 minutes, the Prime Minister will begin answering questions from opposition representatives.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u34	Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, please take your seats. We will continue the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to take their seats. Thank you very much. We'll first find out if there's a presence in the hall. I'd like to invite my colleagues and colleagues to make sure that by pressing the "quorum" button we can determine the presence in the hall. There are 60 Members and Members present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and can continue its work. As a matter of fact, we're going to move on to 1. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS AND BUILDINGS OF MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. The Minister for Culture, Mrs Andreja Richter, apologized for this point. The Secretary of State, Mr Cyril Baskovic and Mr Bozidar Zorko will take part in the consideration of the parliamentary initiatives in its field. I welcome the Prime Minister, the Minister and the Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and I propose that we begin point 1. We have received proposals to raise oral questions from Members of Parliament and accordingly set a timetable for Members and Members to raise questions for the government. First, the first three questions of representatives of the opposition groups will be answered by Prime Minister Dr Janez Drnovšek. The first three will be colleagues: Dr Andrej Bajuk, colleague of Victory Jelinčič and colleague Janez Janša. First, he will ask the Prime Minister the question of Mr Andrej Bajuk. You have the floor, Dr. Bayuk. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u35	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers, Secretary of State and Secretary of State and other representatives of the government! My question is: How does the Slovenian Government exercise management privileges over banks and other institutions owned by the state or at least mostly owned by the state? Although we have asked you or the government a few months ago a question related to the implementation of the government's management privileges over state capital in the subsidiaries of Nova Ljubljanska Banka and Nova Kreditna Banka Maribor abroad, I have to re-set it for you today. With your reply or response from the government, which was received by the three opposition Members in mid-December 2001 to specific written questions, we cannot be satisfied. This reply, which we have received on behalf of the Government - about our views on it, we will also be particularly familiar with the President of the National Assembly and all the parliamentary groups - can be summed up in two common points of content which are the basis for my question. First time. He manages his management entitlement to the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank Maribor only once a year at the assembly of these companies. Another time. The government, like all other shareholders, transferred the duties and responsibilities of managing the New Ljubljana Bank to the members of the Supervisory Board. However, a member of the Supervisory Board should be liable, in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Company Act, to compensation for the management of the State bank if this liability is demonstrated to him in a court of law. With this content of the reply, which indirectly tells us that the National Assembly also has no responsibility to manage state banks, we cannot agree, of course, because such positions are contrary to both the theory and the practice of managing state capital in democratic countries, as well as the principles or codes of fiscal transparency, transparency set by international institutions, in which Slovenia is also a member and must respect them. It seems that in our country so far the issue of governance of state capital in companies has not been raised in the National Assembly. I am convinced that a member of the Supervisory Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, as a representative of the State Capital, should carry out his function under the authority of the Government, which means that he should have a clear mandate when he must obtain the government's previous position in order to decide. This is certainly true in cases where business decisions have long-term and strategic implications. Therefore, we ask you publicly: Who, on behalf of the State as the majority owner, decided in 2001 and in the current period 2002 on the financial investments of the New Ljubljana Bank in a number of banks in the territory of the former SFRJ? We can read in the newspapers that in 2002 Nova Ljubljanska Banka also buys such banks in Bosnia and Herzegovina that have not received guarantees from the competent Bosnian agency for the insurance of individual nutritional deposits. And the bank in Bihac ended its business in 2000 with a loss of about two million euros.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u36	Comrade Dr. Bayuk, I must warn you in time. Please finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u37	Just one moment, thank you very much. In this regard, please give a clear answer: Do you think that long-term strategic investments in the purchases of subsidiaries in South-Eastern Europe, even if they are formally applied through existing subsidiaries abroad, are considered to be a business decided by the owner, namely a state or government under the supervision of the National Assembly, a member of the government in the supervisory board of the New Ljubljana Bank without the authority or management, the management of the bank itself directly? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u38	You're out of time, Dr. Bayuk. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like to answer the question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u39	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, honourable Members, Mr Bayuk! Your question is, I must admit, an important issue and coincides with my thinking or with the government's thinking on how to establish a perhaps more acute or stronger relationship between the government and the supervisory council in the management of the two banks that are still in state ownership. It is true that our efforts, on the one hand, are focused on the State withdrawing from this property as soon as possible, because we are assessing that it is not perspective and it has never been the intention of the State to deal with banking in the long term. Of course, it is true that the ongoing operation and the ongoing operation of these banks - which is under the supervision of, as you have determined, the Supervisory Committee - is being discussed once, truly once a year by the government as a assembly. Current supervision is also more likely to have a financial minister or the need to communicate with the Supervisory Board, when it comes to more important positions, with regard to more important decisions on the functioning of the bank or both banks. And of course, the assumption is that in such cases, if any important matters were involved, the government would also be informed. In recent times, however, my thinking has been going on, as I have already said, to establish a stronger and clearer relationship, especially because there are increasing questions about the operation of these banks, to which the government must, after all, answer, as well as increasingly important decisions, which are also part of the country's overall economic policy. The investments you discussed, the government has not discussed these investments, or we are aware of the investment that was made, I think already in 2000, in the second half of 2000 with Macedonia, with the Tutuna Bank in Macedonia. However, I do not think that the Supervisory Board has yet given its consent on other investments. I am talking about the bank in Vojvodina and also probably the bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina. I don't know this case alone as Prime Minister. However, I have already expressed my views that this area of the former Yugoslavia is of economic interest to us. That we want to develop as many economic contacts as possible. However, there is a need for caution in this regard, particularly in the case of bank investments, and for investments to be properly verified, with appropriate guarantees or simply to be verified in all ways of sound management. So such an absolute general warning has been given, and I suppose, of course, that good, even good banking management must take into account it. However, I expect this information, in a short time also by the Supervisory Committee, also for the government, so that, in fact, they can also express their views politically, economically and politically on these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[Yes, you do.]] Dr. Bayuk, you have two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I forgive myself for taking a little more time in the beginning, but now I'm gonna be shorter. The decisions of the management or management of the New Ljubljana Bank are certainly crucial in the period of privatisation, at least partial privatisation of this institution. Above all, we are concerned that it is precisely that the investments decided by Nova Ljubljanska Banka are taking place in an area of the world that is unknown, as I once warned all colleagues and colleagues here, not exactly known for their stability and credibility. The fact is that this will certainly have an impact on the value of this facility now that the sale is decided. I would like to ask: Is the government aware of how these investments affect the value of the New Ljubljana Bank, which is in the process of partial privatisation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, would you like to complete your reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u43	Well, the government certainly did not discuss this and was not informed. We also expect a report and a proposal from the Privatisation Commission, a commission for the privatisation of both banks. So, of course, the government has not been informed of any different assessments and impacts. But I agree with the warnings. I have already asked myself - I must say, in the case of an investment in Bosnia and Herzegovina, I do not know for the first time, I hear about it - but I have already requested clarifications about the investment in the Vojvodina, and I expect that we will get it in a short time, both from the administration or from the Supervisory Board, the Supervisory Board. At the moment, however, it is justified to focus on the privatisation of both banks. The government still has the objective of reducing the public debt generated by this title to the issue. In the information, I can say that the public debt in this title is in these two banks, i.e. for the recovery of these two banks, over 200 billion tolars, and that the additional 200 billion tolars of public debt are addressed to the resolution of all banking from that period, i.e. at the time of independence. So, over 400 billion tolars of public debt come from the recovery of banking, and that's almost 40% of the country's total public debt, the state debt. So this is an important issue of public debt, and when we talk about these issues, it has to be presented. It is only to service the bonds for the rehabilitation of these two state banks that about 20 billion tolars per year. So these are important amounts that could be earmarked for other issues, and this is, I repeat, one of the key reasons why we are, of course, also looking for the best possible solution to extinguish this public debt and also to get the country out of banking activity, if I say so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Excuse me? Procedurally. Please, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u45	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 29 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the New Slovenia Group requests that the Government's response be discussed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u46	On the basis of Article 29(2), the New Slovenia Group proposes to hold a debate on the Government's response. I will first give the text to the applicant of the request. He will be given the floor by the President or a representative of the government. You'll both have 15 minutes. After that, the representatives of the parliamentary groups. They'll have five minutes. First, I give the floor to the representative of the proposer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u47	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We have asked for a debate because this is one of the key issues of our time, which requires a broader and immediate debate in this national assembly. You must recall that many years ago, this very national assembly had to decide and assume a great deal of financial responsibility, which will weigh our budgets for more than a decade, for the rehabilitation of these two institutions or the third, which has joined the two. How our country actually deals with all the things that are still in its possession is a pressing issue, because in our period of time, now that the 10th year has passed since independence and systemic change, we are still going around in some vicious circle and transition we do not see the end. Because it is precisely this transition from this system that we used to have to an open market economy in a democratic atmosphere that requires completely different approaches. Above all, it requires a completely different role for the government and the state in the economy. The State must, once and for all, waive the role of the owner and assume the responsibility of the regulator. So the institutions that sign the rules of the game and make sure that these rules are respected in a consistent manner. For all that is happening to us today, still now, our country is too much of a owner. And it all seems like we can't shake it off, but I'm finding out that we've been in a really weird hurry these past few months. Mr President, you also have, your house is also in Ljubljana, I must congratulate you, because we both, without knowing it, have become bankers because, say, the municipality of Ljubljana has decided to buy one bank and invest in this bank. Yesterday in the world, in the municipal world, they had a long debate, they had three hours of debate, there were no answers for more than a few seconds, and, of course, the voting machine did its thing and we don't know what's going on, what we're really doing. Of course, this is not in the field of government, but also in the field of government there are things that are difficult to understand. If we believe the reports we are following in the media, it is the President of the New Ljubljana Bank who recently said at a professional meeting that he must, but that there is no other way out than to invest abroad, because there is no better option here. Of course, he spoke in front of the experts, because if he spoke before the craftsmen, I do not believe that the debate would still be going on. What is happening to us that we cannot manage institutions that we, together with great problems and with great resources, have put on our feet so that we cannot manage them for our common good? And now we are investing elsewhere in markets that no one trusts them in the way we trust them. As yesterday, Mr President, you mentioned in your presentation on Radiotelevision of Slovenia, a presentation which I followed with great interest and interest. Looks like you're sharing that concern, too. But I can't shake the feeling that there's just some gap between concern, words and actions. Because this response, which we have received from the Government, that we have actually given up, is decided by our representative on the Supervisory Committee, and once a year we know how things are going, is actually unacceptable. I hope that these assurances that you have given us here today in this national assembly will in fact turn into concrete facts and that the government will assume its responsibility over the whole procedure, that once and for all we will know what we are doing and where we are going. I really do not want to see us being called together again in this national assembly at night to solve things again, because we have not managed in good time with the resources that are still entrusted to us and are under our control. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u48	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. He has 15 minutes to answer, either the President or the representative of the government. Who wants a word? Yes, you can. First of all, the Prime Minister. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u49	Thank you. Your Honor. The problem that we have at this point is that at this point the government is not significantly different from the opposition's views, so that I am somewhat handicapped in this debate or in this response, the government agrees with what I have already said today and several times that state banking is not the right way of banking and that, in fact, the state is not able to manage banks in any other way than to delegate the supervisory function to a supervisory committee which then occasionally reports back. It is understandable that a government that deals practically with all matters in the country cannot act on a permanent basis as a banking assembly and thereby monitor and interfere with all banking decisions. Perhaps someone would say that it is even better not to interfere, for it is better to leave the supervisory function of the chosen experts, who, of course, are also financially responsible for their decisions. But that's the fact. Not just in our country, but anywhere in the world where we own state property, either in companies or in banks. And it is no wonder that, here and there, such banks are also in great difficulty, as they recently did, a few months ago, the bankruptcy of a large German bank in Berlin, which collapsed and, of course, entailed billions of outstanding liabilities. This was the result of doing business, listening to all the other criteria and priorities, but not of course those professional, banking. If politicians manage the bank, they will manage by different criteria than bankers. That's why it seemed to us, at least so far I thought it was a better solution, as long as, if so, the country owns the bank and manages it to leave it to the specialised supervisory committee, the group of experts who are also responsible for it. However, the final and the right solution is that the State withdraws from banking and that from this title, i.e. from the sale of the bank, then also extinguishes that public debt which was created from this title and also largely, as I have already said, burdens public finances and reduces the space for other beneficial activities. It is true that we are now in the middle of this process, in the middle of the privatisation process, although in relatively unfavourable circumstances, with relatively small numbers of bidders, with some difficult decisions ahead of us, but we will try to make the process in the best possible way and make the best decisions when it is necessary and when such a possibility proves to be the best. I'd like to ask the finance minister who's working on it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u50	The Prime Minister's reply will be supplemented by a Minister, Mag. Robbery, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u51	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members. I absolutely agree with what has been said and, of course, with Dr. Bayuk. In fact, you have made very important arguments for what we are doing and against, which is often a lot of resistance, even in public and in discussions. The arguments that the State must withdraw from both state banks or that it must do so as soon as possible and that it must limit its role on the one hand and, on the other hand, it must reduce the huge public debt incurred through the rehabilitation of both banks. Let me just add to that that it doesn't hold what you said we put both banks and banks on their feet with taxpayers' money. That money will only be paid for. So far, only interest has been serviced, and even that part of the capital that has gone west, and it has been a small part and a minority, it has only been reprogrammed, so that the de facto taxpayers' account in this amount that the prime minister was talking about will only be exhibited, and that is 400 billion, plus all the interest that taxpayers will have to pay in the meantime. Let me just mention this: of course, Slovenian banks have also been further rehabilitated through the rehabilitation of iron stations, through the rehabilitation of general navigation, if you want, even through all guarantees for TAM, Pekko and also Planika, and that it is practically possible to say more than half of Slovenia's public debt or debt from the rehabilitation of these banks and it is quite clear that this debt needs to be reduced accordingly. Let me make sure that the privatisation procedures, regardless of the many pressures, continue to flow within the privatisation commissions. Finally, the government will be able to decide on the basis of real arguments on who are those buying in the bank and what are the concrete offers and what are the other things that concern in particular the strategic partnership, the further development, as well as the development strategies in those markets that you have been talking about. We will, of course, also get to know the national assembly and the general Slovenian public accordingly. We will do everything we can to ensure that privatisation procedures run transparently and that we finally decide on the best decision. The best decision we believe is the right one, which leads to a better banking system, a better financial system and to such conditions of borrowing, borrowing and saving in Slovenia, for Slovenian citizens, for the Slovenian economy, which also exists in other, particularly developed European countries. This is our goal and, of course, we will do what is necessary for it. I fully agree that it is not possible to actively implement the economic development strategy on new foundations, as defined in the economic development strategy, without ending the transition without withdrawing the country from the economy where it is necessary and, of course, by means of ownership structure, strengthening the Slovenian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Minister Mag. Robbery. Would any of the government's representatives like to take the floor to complete the reply of the Prime Minister and the Minister? [[He doesn't want to.]] So this was the government's response. I now give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. Any of the members of the Group would like to present their views? He does. Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party. Comrade Janez Janša, you have the floor. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues, Members and members of the government, Mr. Prime Minister! My fellow Member, Dr Andrej Bajuk, here, in fact, asked what the state interest is in banks that are still state-owned and that make certain concrete decisions at this stage. From the Prime Minister's response, we have been able to understand the general idea that there is a state interest here that banks are privatising because the government that now masters banks is not a good host and the banks just need a good master. Of course, we could agree on that and there were no differences here. However, as I have already said, decisions on plasma, long-term measures in these banks are also being taken now before the banks are privatised, now that the government is the master, and these decisions are problematic. I will not repeat what Dr. Bayuk said, I would just like to remind the respected members of the government who are responsible for this, that this is not an empty time, where everything is waiting for this privatisation and where nothing is happening. Many decisions are now being made that will be important in the future. The main question is what is the state interest in banks that are still state-owned and where the government master is. We are living in a very sensitive time, in those last months and years, before we become full members, let's hope, the European Union, and suddenly, in this Slovenian space, a debate on what the national interest is. All that's said is, I don't know, the ownership of the brewery, and partly the bank. There is very little talk about what is certainly the essence of this national interest, even in connection with this debate, about the fact that Slovenians want to join the European Union as equal citizens, that we will be there as individuals equal to those of those countries who have been for a long time in order to be equal in knowledge, values, if you want, even in the shortest possible time. In this regard, the debate on national interest is much more than the discussion on ownership of brewery shares, on Slovenian culture, on Slovenian values, on the topics that we are obliged to close, to agree on them by ourselves before we go to a wider community. That's mostly not a debate. In this context, a view of the future shows or tells all of us that as soon as we become members of the European Union, we are in some way extending our national space to the place where our relatives live, just beyond the borders that are now in other countries, then these distances will be substantially reduced. In these debates and in these decisions of the government, which also controls state-owned banks, we miss a strategy in this regard. We are now at this particular dilemma. Instead of putting banks that are state-owned as the first priority on winning some points, setting some bases in New Sad, Sarajevo, in the remains of the former Agro-Commercial in Bihac, it would be very good - well, first of all, to say that against this, if our economy is to be present there, there is also a need for financial monitoring of these institutions. In the long run, I have no objection to our banking being extended to these markets. But the question is, what's the priority? I think that before that we should take some other steps, set up after the collapse of some of the financial institutions Slovenia has had, or, at least, financed in Trieste, and elsewhere for the border, there are new, healthy financial pillars that would support the Slovenian economy, our minority, who after the removal of administrative borders will no longer be a minority in this sense, and would allow the expansion of this national space to be such that we will benefit from it. I think this would be a priority rather than taking over the New Sad and solving the various failed investments committed by others in the south. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u54	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. These were the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. The positions of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be presented by a colleague of Peče. You have a word and five minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u55	Your Honors are here! Ladies and gentlemen, you have evaluated the national interest, evaluated the only wealth that this country - this is the Republic of Slovenia - should have. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe in the Republic of Slovenia and believe in our banking, we believe in the banking that this country, citizens and citizens have created in the past 10 years, which we have saved from the period when banking did not have a way out of it through rehabilitation. Today, ladies and gentlemen, both in the government and in the so-called opposition, which has long been showing that there is no longer any opposition at all, you want to give Slovenian banking to foreigners in any way, to give to those of whom you, on the one hand, expect services in the so-called European integrations, as on the other hand, you expect a private interest. It's sad. In the Slovenian National Party, unfortunately with only four votes, our support in this evil plan for the sale of Slovenian property and you will not get the issue of Slovenian national interest. Slovenian banking, whether in private hands, state ownership or through the Bank of the Republic of Slovenia, dictates the pace of development of the Republic of Slovenia, dictates the pace of development of the Republic of Slovenia at the moment at which we are today - this is a period of transition. If any of you think that during this period, during a period of transition where the country is a fair country, it is absolutely and urgently necessary for you to sell this property and then give it to foreigners, at a time when foreign entry into our domestic economy is so massive and where this population will increase from day to day, closer to the European Union. Ladies and gentlemen, you're making mistakes! All together, once again, citizens and citizens have been rehabilitated by these banks. Not today because of your own narrow interests to give to strangers. Banks currently dictate the development of the Republic of Slovenia and the Republic of Slovenia is not just the city of Ljubljana, which is facing minimal unemployment, compared with other areas of our country. There are other areas that are lagging behind all macroeconomic indicators. It is precisely these banks, which we are talking about today and which you want so cheaply and through political fraud, in connection with the Social Democrats and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, that you have passed on to foreigners, as you have passed on a brewery story that you have turned to yourself and talked about the national interest only in the price of beer. It's a shame. In the Slovenian National Party we are unfortunately too weak at this moment to influence your evil plans, gentlemen and ladies! But think again. Your function and your life are limited. The country of Slovenia must and will live on, so let us at least leave the possibility for the foreigners today or for the foreigners, to leave our future families the opportunity to develop in the way that the Slovenians have always developed in history, proudly. Ladies and gentlemen! It is time for you to finally see that the so-called Kučan model for the privatisation of banks in this country at this time and at this moment corresponds to the fact that Slovenia must remain or Slovenian companies the majority owner in the so-called banking sphere of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u56	Thank you very much. This was the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group. Does any other group wish to present their views? I guess not. That is why I can conclude the debate. The next one with a word for the question to the Prime Minister is Comrade Victory Jelinčič. Comrade Jelinčič, you have 3 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u57	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Prime Minister! Given how modern it is to draw attention to national interests recently, I am interested in what is happening in our approximation of the NATO Pact. I'm asking you what's the financial part of this approximation. According to the information we have in the Slovenian National Party Group, the resources for the implementation of this project are greatly lacking due to the well-known problems of budgeting. According to available information from the Ministry of Defence, the Finance Minister does not want to cooperate with the latter in preparing a financial plan for Slovenia's entry into NATO. Taking into account your plausible oath to enter Slovenia into the European Union and NATO, I am interested in what you have done to ensure that both projects are also financially covered. Is it true that you want the missing funds to be obtained by selling the most vital parts of the Slovenian economy? It is evident that this is the time when our country’s parade horses are being sold. When will this information be made available to the public? Taxpayers have a right to know what happens to their money. According to the grave calculations, Slovenia’s only connection to Nat at a certain time was estimated to cost about a billion U.S. dollars. How will you justify such spending of money when Slovenia already has a greater debt on its head than Argentina? And another question. In the National Security Council, you discussed the report of the Slovenian Intelligence Agency a while ago, when Sova, who is directly principled, who is currently fighting only Bedanec from the film Kekec, followed a Slovenian businessman who, as it was said, walked through Koroška with some Arabs and visited branch churches in the fear that they were connected to terrorist groups. As with the Slovenian businessman, Owl also listened to this Arab, according to American instructions. This Arab man, who acquired special processing of our intelligence service, was a Vatican nuncio, Monsignio Edmund Farhat. Is it true, Mr Prime Minister, that because of the likely international scandal that would follow, if Mr Farhat had been overheard by the Soviet Union, you had to sign the Vatican Agreement quickly overnight? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u58	I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall. The Prime Minister will answer the question posed by his colleague, Mr Jelinčič. You have the floor, Mr. Prime Minister. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u59	Thank you, Mr. Ambassador. I'll try to be as serious as possible. I am pleased that you express such concern for our involvement in NATO's relationship that you are concerned or that we will provide the necessary financial resources for this. The question of funding for NATO is often exaggerated. Our assessments are that if Slovenia wants to ensure the same level of security itself, i.e. with its defence, with its military, it should devote a lot more resources to this than it will in NATO. The collective defence for a smaller country must certainly be cheaper than the construction of all defence systems in such a way as to ensure adequate security. In the 2002 budget, the Slovenian Government allocated about 1.5 per cent of the social defence product, as well as about that percentage or a hundred more in 2003. According to the assessment or opinions of NATO representatives, which we hear many times, there is, of course, a tendency and also some effort to increase Slovenia's share of defence and this to increase its defence capacity, not to devote these resources to NATO, but to make its defence system as full as possible and to be as defensively capable and thus as such able to be an equal member of NATO, which is directly related to its own defence, which must be ensured. We usually respond in this way that our defence system is gradually strengthened and we have slightly increased the share of defence funding in 2002, but that even many other NATO Member States do not exceed this current percentage, some have even less, a smaller share of defence funds, Luxembourg even under one percent of the social product, Germany is about our current level, and that in fact in these international comparisons, any substantial increase in defence resources will not be necessary, just as our defence system is required. That's one. Secondly, your question, comparing that, for this reason, Slovenia or the Slovenian government should sell vital parts of the economy in order to provide means of defence for NATO, of course, the answer to this is absolutely negative and that is not the case. Firstly, we have relatively little privatised now state property and Slovenia is in this much on the tail of transition countries. We still have a relatively large, probably too much state property. When we talk about banks, we have talked about this at the previous point and we have seen what the purpose and also the burden of public debt is, because, when the country became independent, the banking system was lifted because it would otherwise have collapsed when the financial system of the former country collapsed. In order to resolve the banking system, the State then invested substantial funds or issued bonds that now represent a public debt that heavily burdens current finances. Otherwise, companies and banks sell them much more to Slovenian private people, i.e. private Slovenian owners sell them to foreigners to a greater extent than the country does. This is what we keep reminding us that there is no solution to the so-called national interest in providing Slovenian private owners, because this does not in fact constitute any guarantee that such ownership will also remain private and Slovenian, so that it will remain Slovenian. So there's a lot more sales like this. What we are seeing right now is a much bigger problem, such as privatisation, for example, NLB, is the sale of the Bank of Koper or some other banks, in terms of such geopolitical interests that you may be alerting. But as for that last question of yours, I suppose it wasn't serious and that it was about necessity and even the story that it was probably a more fun bet. That's certainly not something I'd like to comment on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Comrade Jelinčič, would you like to ask an additional, supplementary question? Please, two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Prime Minister said he would try to be serious. It would be nice if we were serious about running the country, but all Slovenes and Slovenes would be much better off. Even if you are not serious about the answer today, your answer shows. Who's threatening us? Who are we going to defend against with collective defense? Are we going to be attacked by Croats? The Austrians and the Italians will not be us anyway, because it is not necessary because you put Slovenian companies and Slovenian banks in their arms. When you say that the private interest in particular was the one who sold the banks. One bank went through a private line. This was the Bank of Koper and it was also a directive of the Slovenian government, which required that Luka Koper and Inter-Europe sell their shares to the Italians. As for our debt, Mr. President. Compared, Argentina has about 35 million inhabitants and about $120 billion in debt per head. Slovenia has 2 million inhabitants and around 7 billion debt per capita. According to a simple account, about $3,400 per head comes to Argentina and about $3,500 per head on Slovenian's head. The difference is in favour of Argentina, and the country is going bankrupt there, and we're still talking about success stories. Perhaps about your success, but certainly not about the success of the state of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Comrade Jelinčič. Is the Prime Minister interested in further clarifying his views? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u63	Well, it's not just Banka Koper on sale, as far as private banks are concerned, also SKB Banka, Rafayzen [[?]] There are cases, probably other cases. When we talk about debt, about Slovenia's external debt and the so-called criticality of this situation, I have data for 2000, comparative data, at least in Europe, with Argentina, but I don't have it here. Slovenia, the debt of the population in Slovenia in 2000 is $2,228, the Belgian debt is $24,000 per capita, the Italian debt is $20,800 per capita. So, ten times more than in Slovenia. Denmark 18,000, Ireland 18,000, Austria 15,000, Finland 13,000, etc. The debt of all countries, including Germany, is over $8 000 per capita, and only Luxembourg has a lower debt per capita than Slovenia, which is $1,600 in 2000. In short, this is just one of the indicators, there are many others that show that the strength of our financial system is good and that we manage public finances responsibly. That is why we are also discussing how to relieve them, make them even stronger, and also make room for other purposes. For example, if we're talking about bonds, interest on bank recovery bonds, these two banks. If we devote 20 billion dollars a year to any other problem, for example, for a health problem or for technological development or anything else, this will, of course, have a greater impact than maintaining state ownership in the bank, and of course we all know that in this way we cannot even guarantee and guarantee optimal banking, which would best monitor our economy. As these banks have been monitoring the economy so far, in the most delicate cases where jobs have been tackled, we never have them. When ministries solve the problem of Pek or any other company, if banks step in, our Slovenian banks always require the government guarantee. They also channel a large part of their plasma into very secure government bonds. In this way, of course, many jobs are not being saved. Well, that's another discussion. I just wanted to say that there's a lot of deception when we talk about these issues and the government knows what it's doing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. The third and final question from the opposition parliamentary groups will be raised by colleague Janez Janš. You have your word and 3 minutes available. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u65	Dear Mr. Prime Minister! The lack of doctors in Slovenia has been a problem for some time now that the profession has been alerted to. It also warns that this is a problem that will become more acute in the future. Partly because we will urgently take up certain European standards, regarding the working time of doctors, limited attention to the measures that have been taken so far, it is via various duty stations, longer working hours, cheers and so on. Also, this problem will be exacerbated by the lack of admission to medical school. The calculations show that this entry should be significantly higher, instead of the present 160 listeners, students, at least 230 listeners should be enrolled in the first years. In recent weeks, there has been a proposal to solve this problem for the future by establishing a medical faculty at the University of Maribor. The government has not yet taken a position on this. We don't even know your personal position. Resistance to this proposal came mainly from some people from the leadership of Ljubljana University, which is symptomatic. However, the main objection was contained in the claim that there are simply not enough professors who could successfully carry out this study. My answer to this question is that it is better to invite Maribor, where it is proposed to set up a medical university, has quite a quality frame. [[...]] What is missing could be compensated through the institute of visiting professors, contractual professors and so on. My view is that it is better to "import" in quotations, some good professors and thus provide them with a quality medical faculty future, than to "import" some 100 bad doctors or average doctors, which is now happening and mainly this type of labour imported from former Yugoslav republics. My question is simple. What is the government's position on this last proposal to establish a medical university in Maribor and also what your personal position is, do you support or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u66	Thank you very much, colleague Janez Janša. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u67	Thank you. Dear Member, the government has not yet discussed this proposal. So I am not aware of the possibilities, with objective possibilities for establishing such a university in Maribor. I expect the government to be informed by the Minister of Health. However, if he already has any data or assessments, he can also give a serious opinion further to today's debate. I would add, however, that the issue of health is important, extremely important, increasingly. We are aware that the number of older people in Slovenia is increasing by raising life expectancy and thus the need for health services. There is a need to follow developments in the world in terms of knowledge, human resources, as well as technology, of course, so we will have to pay very much attention to all these issues. Does this concept judge and whether there are enough reasons, arguments, resources, capacity to establish a university in Maribor, of course we will have to discuss this. If this were possible, it would certainly be positive with several aspects to get to the multi-doctors and, on the other hand, to develop a new activity in Maribor, a new university. Of course, it is necessary to ensure the quality of such a college, because health care and of course doctors are something that does not go experimenting with and we certainly need a quality frame. If it were such an option, we would certainly support it. More likely, the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u68	Would you like to, Minister Dr. Keber, a word and complete the Prime Minister? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u69	Dear Members and Members of Parliament. The Parliamentary Education Committee has decided that both ministries, notably the Ministry of Education, should, of course, also for health care within the next four months, provide the appropriate basis for answering this question, which has been raised today. Allow me only to confirm some information from the Member's question. It is true that, due to the European Union's decisions to reduce the working time of doctors to 48 hours per week until 2009, the question before us is how to obtain from four hundred to eight hundred - I apologize for the wide assessment - four hundred to eight hundred new doctors at this time. This work is being done today in the so-called on-call, supplementary working hours, which means the money for these doctors is already present and this work is being done in the longer-term workshop of doctors. Of course, the new natural persons - and our assessment is that we need about 800 in the next ten years - mean that if we want to get them through the education system - education up to the level of the specialist lasts 12 years - that we have to record them today not 230, but 800 that we will have them at that time. Therefore, during this interim period, we definitely need an increased entry, especially other answers, whether we like them or not. Allow me to say that we have received about 50 doctors from other republics of the former Yugoslavia a year in the past, on average in our country; that this process was established at this time and that the process in the past was really not the right one, because we were already getting the already acquired, I think, fully trained doctors up to the level of specialists. The solution that we are thinking about and which, of course, is based on the free movement of the labour force, and we are committed to it, is to think about how to get medical faculty graduates from some other countries, who then specialize in our country for six years. During this time they acquire knowledge and, of course, those professional experiences which I will incur with one word, Slovenian doctrine in the field of healthcare. So I think the future will answer that question. When we establish a so-called balanced position when we have these new doctors, and this will be about 20% more than today, 800, then we need about 20% more entry than today to maintain this state. That is why we have established immediately - already this year 175 students have been enrolled in medical school, next year is the proposal to enter 200 - then there will be a question in the future whether, according to a proposal from Maribor, two medical colleges of 100 students or one for 200. Let me finish this in four months before I get concrete, from all the sections of the enlightened answers to your question: we are living at the same time as the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana lives in a significant part of the former champagne barracks and when this year its library had to cancel 400 professional magazines due to a lack of money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Minister Dr. Keber. My colleague, Janez Janša, wants to ask a supplementary question. You have the floor, Comrade Janš, and two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u71	I thank you for the answers of the Prime Minister and the Minister. The question that will now be raised is probably rhetorical and is asked in itself: Where have we been so far, since this problem has not occurred overnight? We have known for a long time about these European measures, about the situation that we are in and of ourselves. Why have no spatial problems been solved so far? Why was the admission to the Faculty of Medicine in Ljubljana not increased and why was it not discussed before about the possibility of the establishment of another Faculty of Medicine? That we all agree now that the situation is as it is and that it needs to be resolved, that is all right. It is not right, however, that we are only now coming to this realization, because the Ministry of Health has long been in this independent country, including the school, and the government. Someone is responsible for us being in a position where there are simply no good solutions available. What you're saying isn't as good a solution as it is an emergency. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u72	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. She wants the government, her president, to complete the answer. [[He does.]] Please, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u73	The question may be rhetorical, but still a few words. The government devotes considerable attention to health care, increasingly. It's a question of what we've been doing in these ten years. We all know. We built the whole system in all areas. With the resources we have. And these funds, of course, are what they are. They're limited. They're not unlimited. And within these means, we're moving. We have been looking for more time to the limit to which we can also burden the economy, including with contributions, after all with a contribution to health, with the pressure of pension insurance, of course, so as not to put too much of the competitiveness of the economy at the same time, and we are trying to do what is possible to establish the best health system. I think our system is still much better than it is in most transition countries. In many Western countries too, they face serious problems that are linked, as well as pension insurance for the increase of the age, which means more pension funds and more health funds. These funds must be provided while maintaining the competitiveness of the economy. Well, once again, we are aware of the importance of health care and it is certainly one of the priorities in the functioning of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u74	Thank you, Mr. Prime Minister. With your last explanation, you have completed that part of this agenda item when you are obliged to answer the first three questions raised by the opposition groups. Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u75	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me, at the beginning of the procedural proposal, some statistics. Today, 40 Members and Members have been reported for questions. We have observed that, even though we have submitted proposals for questions sent a month earlier, we have done or that you have done a very large amount of confusion in the order of questioners or questioners. We have found that at the time of the deadline, which you have very well calculated in government parties, 14 MPs and members of the government's parties will ask questions, but only 4 members of the opposition and 4 members of the opposition are who have supported the government and the Prime Minister, and according to our estimates, no one knows what kind of pleasant questions the government is asking. We have found that opposition Members and Members who will ask are as much 20 as Members and Members from so-called government parties. Last but not least, in the last half, outside the television timeframe, there will be 17 issues of opposition Members and Members and only 3 of government parties. I must say that the questions raised by the opposition are those questions for which people do not have the opportunity to get an answer under normal conditions because they are not further agreed. I submit that all these issues, which will be raised by a number of government parties at the time of the television broadcast, are already agreed in advance. It is sometimes noted that the Member or Member who asks the Government is already applauding in advance because he knows the answer. The answers given to these colleagues and colleagues are also more or less familiar to the public. The proposal of the opposition parties is to suspend the meeting for 15 minutes and to try to replace the order of questionable in the leadership of the National Assembly. Therefore, in the first half of the 20s, 17 opposition or opposition members and members of the opposition have the right to ask questions in public at the time of the transfer and that people also have the right to learn these answers from the first hand on the basis of this institution. We therefore propose that the meeting be suspended, that the order be confused and replaced, and that you give the opposition the right which it also has under the Constitution and all laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u76	First of all, I would like to tell you, because this is a procedural matter, a few matters that are important for the conduct of this item on the agenda. The order for asking questions and initiatives is laid down in accordance with the last paragraph of Rule 23 of the Rules of Procedure, so that the first three questions or initiatives are posed by members of the opposition, and then by a number of Members from different parliamentary groups by order of application. The order for the first three questions and initiatives is, in agreement with the opposition parliamentary groups, prepared and taken into account in accordance with the principle of colliding. I would like to say that I, as President, and not a colleague of the Vice-President and both Vice-Presidents, am not interfering with the determination they are preparing in the Secretariat. This order cannot be considered biased. However, whether this is the way in which the rules of procedure are now best or not, and I would like to warn you, we have already launched the college, especially in the light of television broadcasting. So far, there is no firm agreement that parliamentary issues and initiatives will always begin at exactly the time of the transfer. We are always trying to do so because we believe that this is an integral part of the democratic possibility that the public is monitoring such work. However, such order as that of Rupar is not contrary to business rules. It's not. I will pass on your procedural suggestion in the informal consultation to the leaders of the parliamentary groups. Today, there is no business basis for us to decide about it. If you insist, I will put the proposal to the vote. However, I would like to tell you that there is no business basis for today's national assembly to confirm it. I will now put your proposal to the vote without discussion because it was procedural. Excuse me, I will put to the vote my explanation that your procedural proposal cannot be adopted today. If I'm rejected, I'll automatically get your proposal's power. I am therefore putting to the vote my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure and the current conduct and conduct of the State Assembly on issues and initiatives. But I took your suggestion for information and we'll talk about it. So I am putting to the vote my interpretation of the Rules of Procedure. Please plead with her. There are 58 Members and Members present in the Chamber, 39 of them supported by this interpretation, 17 of them opposed. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 17.]] Although you have not received support for your proposal, my colleague Rupar, let me say that as President of the National Assembly, I understand the content of your suggestion that we will discuss this at a consultation between the leaders of the parliamentary groups. This discussion has already been initiated. The Rules of Procedure, which were in preparation and regulated some of these matters, were not adopted, so this issue remains open. I assure you that we will consult on him. Comrade Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u77	On behalf of the protection of democracy, I call on representatives of government parties, leaders of parliamentary clubs to agree or agree to raise one coalition issue on two opposition issues, because in my opinion, there are already agreed issues with ministers. This is a classic opposition institution all over Europe and let us try to be European in this area if we want to join the European Union. I call on you, Mr Anderlich, and the other leaders of the parliamentary clubs to accept this agreement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u78	Comrade Anderlich, you have been addressed. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u79	As far as I'm concerned, I accept your proposal. I haven't asked any questions yet, and as long as our party is in the government, I won't. As far as I'm concerned, you're ahead of me. However, I think that this is precisely why the Institute of Parliament is called that, so that it is called the question that all Members can ask, if they so wish, questions to the government, initiatives. That's what I think is democratic. In this case, one a priori cannot be counted in the position, the other in the opposition. Besides, I think you can all get your turn. But it is true that if you delay with procedural questions, TV time may run out and you will not be on the air. That's the point. But of course that's a question I can't solve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u80	I'm asking for peace. I said that, at the next consultation with the leaders of the groups of Members, we will try, in the light of the fact that the draft Rules of Procedure, as proposed and regulated by some of these issues, were not adopted, temporarily, until the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, to address this issue. Perhaps it would be good for us to agree on certain rules once again. That's what we're gonna try to do. Today, I suggest we move forward in order. First he will get the word of his colleague Bogomir the grandson, followed by a colleague of mags. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Respectable members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! My question concerns Mr. Secretary of Defense Dr. Grisold. Yesterday I saw in the media, specifically in Del, that you intend to retire slightly less than 800 employees in early next year. I wonder if there are such thoughts as to why such solutions occur during the global economic recession, which also appears to us when there are more and more redundant workers who do not have the option. Is there no other option, such as redistribution by ministries or training such personnel that do not meet the conditions of work if this is the reason for administrative retirement? Why not first wait for other solutions, because it is in the professional public - and also the Young Slovenia Party advocates the abolition of compulsory military service - an increasing number of initiatives to professionalize the Slovenian army. Is it not illogical that we are creating at a time when pension reform has barely been adopted, which was also based on the fact that there are no more administrative pensions, and new administrative young pensioners, if possible if we are to end compulsory military service, we need this staff and re-employment. Or maybe it's a human resources clean-up of politically inappropriate personnel at the expense of taxpayers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u82	Thank you very much for your question, colleague grandchild. Mr. Secretary of Defense, would you like to respond? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u83	Dear Member, thank you very much for the question. It is true that in recent days there is also a possible solution to the personnel structure of the Slovenian army in the context of such solutions as early retirement. Let me firmly say at the outset that no solution has yet been adopted, so there is no proposal for any cleansing, because this is not in the context of my national defence approach. I've said that a lot. I think that's what we did at the Ministry of Defense with all the suggestions that were also present and accepted here. It is simply that, in the context of the implementation of the defence reform of the Republic of Slovenia, which we have already talked about, and you have had the opportunity also in the National Assembly to get to know in detail all the measures that we proposed at the Ministry of Defence last June, first to the Council for National Security, then to the government, namely, measures to improve the situation in the Slovenian military and throughout the defence system, one part of these measures relates to an entirely inadequate staffing structure in the Slovenian military. This inadequacy is reflected in age structure, education structure and, of course, professional orientations. There is no solution, no solution is yet final. In these days, we have coordinated with individual ministries. The proposal that has now emerged, i.e. yesterday not today, is such that in no way will it burden him to say so, pension bills, but the whole matter will have to be on the shoulders of the defence budget or the budget of the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia. So much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Do you have a further question, colleague grandchild? Please. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u85	Thanks again for saying that. Mr Minister, you have not answered my question; namely, I still wonder whether you personally, although the new, barely adopted, pension reform no longer provides for administrative retirement - whether it is part of the burden of the pensioner's pension or the defence ministry, in any case the state budget, which we know is being filled. I want to know whether you're going to be in favor of administrative retirement or whether you're going to be in favor of other solutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Do you want to reply further? Please. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u87	So, like I said, there's no final proposal yet. To avoid blindness - you yourself know what solutions are available. So, on the one hand, we can identify more labour; on the other hand, we're dealing with reallocations. But I told you before: the human resources structure is problematic, especially in terms of age, education. So you can think for yourself whether it is possible to redistribute such people into other parts of the defense system without the urgent things that I mentioned earlier; or whether there are other solutions. I am, of course, advocating that these solutions are rational, that they are optimal, best, and I will be very happy with any suggestion that will help solve this problem. This problem will have to be solved once and for all, because all the programmes, documents that this National Assembly has also adopted, from the resolution of the national security strategy, the basic development programmes, the general long-term programme, the equipment for the development of the Slovenian Armed Forces - all of these programmes are linked to such structural changes that we are talking about here. So this - I give you back the word of course - the essence of these defence reforms and if we don't do it, it's an acid apple, then of course, things will be the way they were. But they were not good - as you know - and you have rightly criticized yourself, even in the National Assembly, that the situation in the Slovenian Army and the defence system is not good. So, we are looking for rational, constructive solutions and I will be happy for any constructive suggestion that I will hear anywhere that we can successfully implement the defence reforms outlined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. I'm giving my colleague a word. Majdi Potter. She'll be given the word of her colleague Dorian Marshich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honourable Minister and Ministers, Representatives and Representatives of the Government, Dear Fellows and Fellows! The first part of the question is addressed to the Minister for Education, Science and Sport, second to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. At the meeting of the working group on language planning and language policy, I heard that a proposal for the introduction of bilingual classes in some Slovenian secondary schools was prepared at the beginning of the school year 2002/2003. Thus, non-lingual classes are also to be taught in English, German, or French, with the experience of bilingual schools in the European Union as an example. I am also familiar with the pilot project of the Maribor elementary school Bojan Iliha, which took place in 1994/1998 and introduced geography education in English. Since there is a great deal of attention at all levels of foreign language education, the aim is to increase the number of those who actively speak not only one foreign language, and to understand the need to find new methods of foreign language learning. When introducing bilingual classes, however, it is not only a foreign language teaching but also a foreign language teaching, which is contrary to the applicable law that defines Slovenian or mother tongue as a learning language. I therefore ask: Does the Ministry intend to propose a change to school legislation in the part concerning the learning language? How many schools does it intend to include in experimental introductions and how many after the end of the probationary period should they be assessed? Who and how will determine on what criteria will be selected subjects, students and teachers who will be involved in experimental introduction. We would also ask for a written part of this answer. However, I am addressing the second part of the question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. I ask him: What does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs intend to do with the latest measures taken by the Italian Government against the bilinguality of identity cards in the municipalities where the Slovenian national community is in the majority? And: How does the Italian Government intend to draw attention to an unacceptable hindrance in the implementation of the so-called protection law? I thank you both for your answers in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u90	Two questions: for the Minister and the Minister. Will you, Madam Minister, respond first? Please, you have the floor. Minister of Education and Sport.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u91	Thank you very much. I am very pleased that we can also talk about language policy in this House. In fact, Slovenia has a vision of language policy and has also drawn it in its laws; so if only quickly pulled through the vertical. We know that Slovenia has decided to give an exemplary solution to bilinguality - what I call bilinguality, it is in national mixed areas, so I will focus two words later; what was meant or thought - this project is not yet. In fact, bilinguality in national mixed areas is exemplary in our laws. Early multilingualism or early learning of a foreign language have been moved to the age of 9 precisely because we are concerned that the first language and development of the mother tongue system is essential in the early years of schooling and we have a late early learning of a foreign language. Let us also ensure that a primary school student has the opportunity, like any European citizen, to learn two languages by the end of compulsory schooling. This is also the conclusion of the Ministerial Conference of the Council of Europe. At the university we can teach in a foreign language if there is the same course in Slovenian within the course and in no way can it be in English alone. Well, motherhood is present, and I think we need to keep it. What's that you've heard about? This is an experiment carried out on the basis of a test rule, and this is not a change of law; an attempt to be made at two schools, on the initiative of certain bodies of the Council of Europe. The Polish School would have several hours of French not only in French but also in European geography or history in the selection part of the programme. Also, Gymnasium Wič asked that a similar attempt be made in English — and that is all. However, the Ministry will not support the systematic breakdown of the percentage of motherhood within the programme, as our plan is that such an attempt can only lead to certain experiences which, in parallel, will sometimes be able to see a slightly wider offer in schools. The Foreign Language Council, which operates in the Ministry as a consultative body, has examined this and if we go into this experiment, we will, of course, have expert opinions as well as opinions from the Slavs. I don't know if I answered you - or anything else, any other information? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u92	Thank you very much. You don't have a word yet, Comrade Potrat. On this issue, the second part of your question will be answered first by the Foreign Minister, Dr. Rupel, and then you have the opportunity for an additional question. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u93	Mr President, honourable Member, Mrs Potter. I understand the essence of your question, and I must say that I agree with it. Moreover, we are also closely monitoring in the foreign ministry and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia what is happening in the neighbouring country of Italy with regard to certain established, rights of the Slovenian minority. These rights have, in some ways, been reduced or threatened by the Internal Minister's decree. We believe that the international treaties and international conventions must now be taken into account in action. Let me call you just two: one is the European Convention on Minorities, the other on minority and regional languages. Of course, it is also a problem dealt with by the Treaties, such as the OTC agreements and, above all, the recent adoption of a safeguard law for the Slovenians. Well, here is the big problem that this law provides for a parity committee or some form, an organisational form of consultation and also, of course, decision-making, action on the protection of minority rights. This parity committee, to which Slovenians should contribute 10 members and the Italian side of 10 members or should be composed 10:10; this committee has not yet been composed, even though the deadline for this has already expired; by the end of September, the Italian State should have ensured the work of such a committee. When we received information about what you asked today, namely, that in some municipalities - the municipalities of Dolina, Repen - the camp, Devin, Nabrežina and Zgonik - should allow the use of monolingual identity cards instead of bilingual ones in accordance with the adopted decree of the Ministry of the Interior of Italy. So, in this regard, we have done some consultations, and we have also taken some action, if that is what we can say. Today our Secretary of State, Mrs Tovornikova, was in Trieste to make sure of matters on the spot. Today, just before we settled in this Chamber, the Secretary of State called for a discussion at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Ambassador of the Republic of Italy, Excellency Norbert Chapella, and expressed dissatisfaction or protest over this decision and what is happening in the neighbouring country. As I have already said, this decree is seen as an opposition or a violation of what has so far been established for the minority and for the minority. You know that it is illegal to reduce the rights of a minority, this is a generally accepted principle in the European Union, and we refer to this principle and to such policies as should become the everyday thing in the European Union. We are aware that the opposition to Slovenia's minority and the positive regulation of its problems is here in the neighbouring country. We consider such delays or problems to be temporary and, in fact, we hope that such a policy will slow down and dictate to the Slovenian minority as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u94	Thank you. She wants a lady mag. Spending asking a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u95	In particular, I would like to thank Minister Chokov for his clarification that this is only a limited experiment awaiting appropriate expert follow-up, because if that is not the case, then he should ask a number of additional questions that would concern both the use of textbooks, the establishment of knowledge standards and, lastly, how the certificate would be differentiated from the certificates of those who would not be present. Thank you very much, both of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u96	Thank you. Mr Dorian Marshich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u97	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am referring my question to the Minister of Justice, and I swear that I have not been agreed with him either for a question or for an answer, so he is probably not in the Chamber now, but I will ask the question anyway. For many years in the municipality of Koper, there has been a problem for many people in the border area with the Republic of Croatia, namely that land-books matters must be resolved in another republic. This is due to the fact that about 5% of all the lands of the Koper municipality are still included in the land book in Buzet. The book of the land for this work, especially the cathedral congregation of Pregara, is not set up in spite of many promises and has been making these promises for quite some time, in fact, for the matter to be settled. It is right to regulate the border issue between countries, but even more so, it seems to me that in the territory which is indisputably Slovenian, we also ensure all necessary sovereignty in this area. So I'm asking when the problem will be solved.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u98	Thank you. Who's going to answer, please? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u99	Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, Karel Erjavec. We will answer this question in writing by doing appropriate inquiries at the Court of Justice in Cyprus to see how the matter can be settled.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u100	Thank you. Do you want to ask an additional question? [[You don't want to.]] Thank you. Mrs. Maria Pozsonec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u101	All in attendance have a nice greeting! Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for your word. I am asking my first question to the Ministry of Health. A recent amendment to the Health and Insurance Act, which provides for major changes in the reimbursement of travel costs, has recently entered into force for patients seeking medical assistance outside their place of residence. These changes have, of course, made the situation of the insured worse. I do not understand how the Members could have voted on these amendments at all, but I believe that we have deeply violated the human rights and constitutional rights of the people of Slovenia. After this law, we have become the first, second and third-class citizens. From remote areas, medical care will be unattainable to some patients because the material situation will not allow them to visit specialised outpatients in larger cities. It is also incomprehensible what it means that travel costs are granted only if the medical examination contains diagnostic and therapeutic components. So, as I said, we are not all in the same position, because some citizens have medical examinations for free because they are lucky to have a doctor just across the road or in a neighboring town. Others have to go deep in their pocket for a ticket, such as from Prekmurje to Ljubljana, and they also have between 8,000 and 10,000 tolars. Let me also mention a specific case when the elderly lady in the hospital in Murska Sobota received a guide to the Oncology Institute. When told that she was not entitled to the reimbursement of travel expenses, she refused to use and leave other passengers at the window. I ask the Minister: How will this lady and her likeness, which is also ten thousand, come to the urgently needed health care? And: How will those who are in a situation similar to that of the said lady who spend their entire lives paying for health insurance come to what is theirs? I ask: Are we still a human society or are we just pretending to be if we make such differences between people? In terms of regional development, I am asking the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to consider a matter that is very urgent for the spirits in Lendava, namely the fate of the Mure. The situation is causing the residents to become alarmed because it is decided to close the plant. This means that 220 workers should drive to work at the parent company in Mursko Sobota. That this is the first step towards technological surplus, I know that. Let me point out that the plant was not problematic, even in the view of the Mura leadership, they were doing well. Do they really think that when they work 60 to 80 kilometers a day? Do they think that mothers can put their children in protective custody in the middle of the night? Will they be able to contribute to the travel costs of 18,000 sitt a day? And this is also the goal: they will be forced to resign themselves and thus will not be entitled to a retirement. That's really inhuman. It is true that Mura d.o.o. - but expect state aid for the modernisation of production [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u102	Please, just a moment, please, Madam Ambassador, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u103	Yes, right away. So, I am in favour of strengthening the Wall, but the state has the right to provide some of its interests and its interest should be to maintain jobs in an area as vulnerable as Prekmurje. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u104	Thank you. I think the answers will first be the Minister of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u105	Your Honor, thank you for asking. This gives me the opportunity to explain once again the law, which the Ministry of Health has not been pleased to propose for adoption to Parliament, and those who participated in it - regardless of the rapid process - agreed at many meetings, of course, that something must be done. Allow me to say that the situation in the health system, where there is no doubt that the needs are ever greater than the possibilities - and we will show, at another point and on another occasion, that the health system and its situation are deteriorating - and regardless of the clear willingness of the governments and this Parliament in the past to devote more to health care than ever before. In these circumstances, we are no doubt every day ahead of the question of what to squeezing and what are the less important things we can squeamish. We can contract in the health system without publicly admitting it. Simply, there is a dilution of rights that appears in the extension of waiting periods, which is shown in many other ways, or that some things, as rights - we define as slightly less important and therefore we try to legally and in Parliament - so in agreement with all citizens - limit them. And since there is a relatively large area of social rights in the healthcare system - according to tradition in our system from the previous country, which other countries do not know or know more in the social system and not in the health system - we have, of course, no great desire, but nevertheless, made some cuts. You will recall that we have opened up the question of funerals, obituaries, transportation costs and some others. If I shorten: in relatively in-depth - although there was little time - discussion, we finally softened our proposal. We have also softened the one on which the question of the Member's question, namely, transport costs for health interventions in another place, is ongoing. It is true that a somewhat incomprehensible diction of this article has also occurred as a result of the rapid procedure and the change, in essence, of the bliss of this part of the articles. Therefore, there has been a short, different interpretation of the institution's health insurance, such as the interpretation or interpretation of the Ministry of Health, which by law has the opportunity to give its interpretation. We have done this interpretation, we have taken note of our position and the opinion of the health insurance institution, and this interpretation says that only one transport, due to any health care - either diagnostic or medical, or rehabilitative [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u106	Members of the peace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u107	So any health care that requires a journey to another place is paid if this need is shown more than once a month. [[...]] In such a way that if it is more than once, it is also paid first. In short, chronic patients - and here their situation is questioned - chronic patients who often need services in a different place are not deprived because, as a rule, such needs are shown more than twice a month. I would just like to say that, of course, these needs are not only on the route of very remote border areas and Ljubljana. It is a matter of ways and a large majority of the roads turn out to be in a particular region. It is a journey to Murska Sobota, it is a journey to Ptuj, it is also a journey to Ljubljana for the inhabitants of the Ljubljana region. Therefore, I think that, of course, it is true that the people of the city where this activity is taking place are, of course, not deprived at this point, but through this it was not possible to go otherwise because we have tackled the problem of travel costs. Of course, if we ever start, reopen the law, we may find that - I don't know, there may be a question before us about the complete abolition of travel costs or their transfer to another area and their definition by the social status of the citizen. This time, most experts or politicians in this country do not tend to identify citizens after social threats and add some benefits through them. If this happens, of course, this thing will be dealt with differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u108	Thank you. I think the Minister of Economy will answer the second question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Thank you all very much and, of course, thank you for asking. As far as the issue of the Mura emergency restructuring is concerned, I would like to mention that when we consider what steps the State can take in order to engage in some way in solving the region's problems, first of all to realize that Mura is a privatised company and that the employees and their management structure or leadership structure are responsible for preparing such a restructuring plan, which will, of course, Muri, once implemented, allow this company to remain a driving and important development force in the region. It should be borne in mind that in the restructuring process, almost every firm that finds itself in difficulty not only to gain new knowledge or new technology, but also to many times the question of so-called covert employment. Of course, this is also happening to Mura and this problem will have to be faced. The Ministry of Economy, which also includes regional development, has already invested considerable resources in this region in the past to promote regional development. On the one hand, we have invested 260 million sites for the construction of local infrastructure in the years 2000 - 2001; then, in the years 2001 and 2000, we have also acquired substantial resources from RRR, so says the Mura Regional Agency, which is also leading in this region, which promotes regional supervision with a view to creating new jobs that will, of course, draw on or open productive jobs in just such cases as you have warned about. In addition to these funds, which have already been allocated, as you know, the construction of this entrepreneurial incubator in Pomure is financed within the framework of Phara. This total investment represents around EUR 2 million. This business centre will have four locations, one in Lendava. In this context, this enterprise incubator also has a special scheme, a guarantee scheme, which will allow certain entrepreneurial activities to be exposed within this incubator and, of course, provide these employees who are and may still have to leave Mura. The other thing we can do is speed up the investor flow. This includes, for example, the Promotion Office, for the promotion of the economy and also, I think, only the Ministry of Economy. For information, Filc will increase its activities and thus also open new jobs. It is important that productive jobs are opened for further development in this region, such as income and long-term employment. These are also measures implemented by the Ministry of the Economy and will be implemented in this region to overcome these problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u110	Thank you. Mrs. Maria Possonec would like to ask a supplementary question?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u111	Thank you very much. I thank both for the comprehensive reply, but unfortunately I cannot be satisfied with the implementation of the Minister and Minister. I think we have to save, if necessary, everyone, but not just the poorest part of the periphery. From that farm pension, 30,000, you can't pay the way to Ljubljana once or for more. Otherwise, I think that this law is unconstitutional because citizens do not have the same rights. I thank the Minister for Extensive Interpretation, but in fact it seems that he did not fall so far into Lendava Indip, the Kneading in Prosenjakovci, and now the Mure of Lendava, and the province literally dies out before our eyes, the youth flees from our places and all the parameters show that we are literally in all respects, which is negative, the last in the country. I therefore believe that the country must be more present and more effective in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u112	Thank you. Mr. Franci Rokavec has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u113	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government! I will address two questions; the first is the Ministry of Information Society; it is a repetition of this question. Indeed, the National Assembly had already adopted a Telecommunications Act in April 2001 which stated that the National Assembly must adopt a law within six months setting out the ways and conditions for the return of investments in the construction of the telecommunications network. In fact, the government has committed itself not to be within six months, but within the necessary time frame to allow the national assembly to adopt that law within six months of its adoption or implementation. So far, it's been going on for nine months. We have not yet received this proposal from the Member of Parliament and Members for consideration in the National Assembly. At the November meeting, the Secretary of State, Mr Kalin, made it clear that the law was ready for a government procedure. In fact, I now ask the Ministry: When will the government submit a law to the National Assembly? And: Why hasn’t she done this before? The second question is addressed to the Ministry of Culture. It also follows from the adopted law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture or on the so-called cultural tolar. It was adopted by the National Assembly in 1998, in which it clearly defined the method of financing culture in the Republic of Slovenia in 1998-2003. I ask the Ministry: What is the realisation of the so-called cultural tolar on 31.12.2001? Of course, I specifically ask for an example of the arrangements of the archaeological site Vache or the arrangements of the so-called prehistoric settlement. For this purpose, 25 million co-financing by the Republic of Slovenia was envisaged in the cultural tolar or mentioned law. To date, the Republic of Slovenia has failed to comply by law. However, following the dynamics of funding, the obligation of the Republic of Slovenia should be 15 million by 31.12.2001. I ask the Ministry: When will it also fulfil this obligation, which is, of course, an obligation under that law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Mr Kalin, Secretary of State, will answer the first question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I must say that I am really pleased with your questions, Mr Member, because otherwise we should quietly transfer this law to the hearing, so that I can announce that I am glad that it went through the two committees today and that the next Thursday will be on the government and that the law will then go to Parliament in the procedure. The reason he didn't show up earlier, I explained it the last time. We have tried to reach a law that would not be once again what was denationalisation, so that ten years of things could turn around. We hope that we have achieved one mechanism that will allow people to get those funds back with a lot of automation. The problem was that we went through something. [[...]] [[It's not understandable.]] whether notaries or administrative units should do so within the framework of national authorities. [[...]] Well, now we've stayed with the lawyers, and I think we've found a mechanism that will satisfy the citizens, which will bring things together in a relatively simple way. That's all, if I may say, the secret of your delay, which of course we apologize for. We showed this law to the smallest group of Members, and then we went with our tail between our legs to fix things because it turned out that we couldn't get through. So, as it is said, this law is not easy because the funds are within the range to be returned, are huge, so we hope that you will be satisfied at the end of the day, at least for most of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u116	Thank you. The second question will be answered by the Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture, Zorka Bozidar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! Mr. Ambassador! I'm afraid I don't have specific numbers with me right now so I can give you a very precise answer. We will prepare the answer in writing this week and set it up for you for the second week, with precise data on the realization of the cultural tolar and, of course, all archaeological excavations. However, particularly in the field of archaeology, there are quite a number of problems and a number of problems with the provision of adequate money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u118	Thank you. Do you want to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u119	Thank you for your word. I expect that, in fact, the President of the National Assembly will include in the forthcoming meeting this necessary law, which will regulate investment and, above all, the way of investing in the implementation of the telecommunications network, so that I thank the Secretary of State, Mr Kalin, for this information. However, as regards the second question, I would only add to the question in the sense that I expect that the answer will in fact also contain all the explanations why so far the law has not been implemented to the extent that the law has provided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u120	Thank you. Please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I want to explain again - as I am, I think twice - the reason why this law is needed is the view that people know what they can expect. The very implementation of this law is, of course, when privatisation takes place. We will now begin to prepare the documents. A year ago - from today we do not expect the funds to start pouring into the fund that will. So, from this point of view, it's not such a terrible emergency. But they don't know that people understand what their return will be.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Franz Onbulj has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u123	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear government representatives, ministers and ministers. My question concerns the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The owners of agricultural land and forests and the hunting beneficiaries have been expecting a new hunting law for a decade. The beneficiaries of the State of the Republic of Slovenia or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia expect to be allowed to use a hunting right which has never been taken from them by law. Hunting rights fall within the economic function of property, which is guaranteed under the current Slovenian Constitution. However, the state still allows the hunting lobby to hunt for free private land. Since the European concept of property on agricultural land and forests also includes the notion of hunting rights and the benefits arising from it; therefore, I ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent minister: When will the new hunting law be introduced, because it would also be the last time for the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u124	Thank you. Madam Secretary of State, Dr. Čadonic Špelič, will respond. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u125	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food is, of course, aware of the problems listed here, and the already mentioned law is preparing. Unfortunately, at this point, I can't wait to see when the marriage will be filed and even less when it will be adopted. However, I will certainly convey to the competent Secretary of State your question, and that part of the law that is already ready, we will also convey it to you or invite you to the Ministry so that we can discuss the specific problems there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u126	Thank you. Please, supplemental question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u127	Thank you very much. In short, I got the correct information, which you also confirmed that the government is preparing a new law. In view of the fact that three laws have already been tabled, and this has been the case with the proponents: Mr Ivan Oman, then the law was introduced by the former Member of Parliament, Zoran Lešnik, and Igor Bavčar, as well as the Member of Parliament. And I ask you an additional question, because I am curious: Has the government withdrawn from the procedure these three laws, which were tabled by these three Members? If he did, when did he get them? But if they're not here, I'd like to ask you for an answer when she'll withdraw them. This will, of course, be the turn of the law, which the government will re- table.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u128	Thank you. Would you like another answer, please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u129	Yes, of course, you have already found that the government has not passed the three laws you listed, so of course it cannot withdraw them. We are certainly familiar with this content, and when our marriage is ready, we will of course call on investors to withdraw these laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u130	Thank you. Mr. Bogomir Zámernik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u131	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. My question concerns some of the actions of those responsible to the government. The costs you send, which the government structure currently sends and charges to entrepreneurs, farmers, all those who create something, are increasing from day to day - regret. These costs must, of course, be settled within a specified time limit. If that is not the case, there is a reminder, a late interest, recovery, rubble and we know how things are going forward; with some rare exceptions that have enough connections and boars in enough high positions to avoid it. Unfortunately, most of those who have to make a statement of income are not privileged to do so. But when the reverse situation comes, when this country or the government has to pay something in reverse, it does not adhere so strictly to what it imposes on its citizens. I'm talking about compensation to farmers, for example, just as an example of a bear being destroyed or torn apart by cattle last summer. They've got conclusions, a lot of promises to make these payments, and then you send them from Pontius to Pilate, from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Ministry of Finance, and then a few more times. Of course, this is not the only isolated case. The same is true of funds that are either too low or too low. Look, when we passed the law on coherent regional development, you were full of mouths, how much money we would spend on this. Much less money - specifically for the municipality of Luče I speak, from where I come from, we received 20 million dollars in the year before last and 7 million in last year; it is said that one third of the funds have not yet been paid. At the Ministry of Finance, I am sent to Mr Strmšnik, Mr Strmšnik sends me back to finance on 31.12. I ask you kindly and ask: When will these promised sums be paid to the beneficiaries? I am taking the initiative that the criteria you impose on citizens should apply at least roughly to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u132	Thank you. I understand that your question has been raised by the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of Economy. I ask for an answer, first Mrs. Špelič, then Mrs. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u133	Your Honor! Given that the first question was first addressed to the Ministry of Agriculture, I will try to answer Mr Zammernik. At the Ministry, we do not know that there would be any congestion in the payment of compensation caused by bears on sheep or other game in agricultural crops. I would therefore ask you, Mr Member, if you have any concrete names to inform us and, of course, we will follow this course if there are any payment congestions. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u134	Thank you. I ask the Minister of Economy, Dr. Teo Petrin, to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Well, the answer will be very short. Firstly, payments have been made, so this will be now - I think it must already be in the account. Secondly, the question as to why this year is less than last year is why this is due to a change in the system and because they now have to apply on the basis of regional plans rather than local ones. However, if you want an even more detailed explanation, Mr Strmšnik will add.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u136	Do you want to ask an additional question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u137	I thank my colleague, Špelič, for the answer. Of course, I have specific names, including your Undersecretary, I think that, Mr Vuk, he has them. That's how your services have them, and these services of yours send them from one address to another. If she needs those names she already has from me, she can get them from me, of course. And the ladies' ministers' next. I have been listening to this excuse since December 20th: the funds are almost right before you get them - they are still not in the account. System change; see here is a letter from the regional development agency. Savinska region is one of the few municipalities in which a regional development programme has been adopted in all municipalities, although it extends from Austria to Croatia. After this regional development programme, we have now put projects worth 5.9 billion tolars into a billion-dollar tender for the whole country. How are you now going to do what the law commands you to do in this changed way? Are you going to say, like the Minister of Finance, who says, "All the funds that come to the congregations are regionally earmarked!" Listen, what's going on in Celje for road maintenance, some state roads, you're not going to count in this fund to promote regional development? I really want to know how you're going to do this after this system you mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u138	Thank you. Would you like to answer any further questions? Please, Secretary of State mag. Strinder Igor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Your Honor. So we will implement the programme this year, in line with budgetary options, with the resources that are just available, through the new system, as foreseen by the law on promoting coherent regional development. Surely your plan, at the councils, is a good move that has taken place from last year to this year, and, of course, we expect that this plan has brought about certain priorities and also your application for the invitation to tender that we have already opened, the Commission has looked at your application, proves that the region has actually identified itself as a priority in solving the problem of the infrastructure supply of the Savini region. The figures you're mentioning going into billions would mean, given the current way of co-financing, that if we wanted to co-finance you with everything you've reported, then the municipalities would have to provide co-financing through municipal budgets, which is probably not - or I can say that it's not to such an extent - that the entire programme could be co-financed. This way, I believe that the infrastructure programme in the Savino region will be implemented somewhere in order to make the matter sustainable; it will be sustainable both for public finances at state level and for the region in such a way that it can manage the projects that are there. I believe, of course, that the region will not be satisfied with what it will get. But I can make sure she gets at least as much as she did last year. In addition, there is a new call for water supply and sewage treatment, where approximately this amount has been rescheduled, for the preparation of projects of 400 million in January, for all Slovenia, to which the region can also apply - followed by a call for the implementation part of the regional development programmes. If you define infrastructure there as a key regional problem, you can also draw additional funds from this part. So, slowly, however, we are moving now into a field where, from general assurance that the state does not have money, we are moving on to concrete projects that need to be financially closed, with a closed structure and, of course, where the region must also demonstrate its absorption capacity to resolve these matters. By the government, I can certainly promise a positive approach to solving this problem. We are coordinating a meeting, a visit by the Minister in the Savina region, probably in the beginning or somewhere in mid-February, so that we can discuss these issues on the ground. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Only Bevk has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u141	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! With regard to the planned ratification of the Interstate Treaty on the regulation of status and other issues related to the Krka nuclear power plant, the Slovenian public, in particular in Posav, raises several questions about what the Treaty will mean for our country. However, the problem of the resolution or storage of radioactive waste is the most pronounced since the temporary storage at the Krško nuclear power plant is increasing until 2023. Waste includes highly radioactive waste or spent nuclear fuel. Apparently, nowhere else in the world is a definitively solved landfill. The accumulation of spent nuclear fuel at the Krka nuclear power plant should therefore be resolved as soon as possible, as I know that the European Union recommendation advocates a longer retention of large quantities of spent nuclear fuel in so-called wet pools. In this regard, I have information that we have had the possibility of a definitive solution to the nuclear fuel problem for one year. As far as I know, the government and the competent ministry have this information. It is the willingness of the Russian side to take over all the quantities of spent fuel from the Krka nuclear power plant for processing and final storage in the area of the Russian Federation. This Russian option is expected to be very beneficial and occasional interviews have already been conducted in this direction and the costs of such a solution have also been calculated. That's why I'm asking the government or the competent ministry. First: Has the government, in the case of nuclear waste storage, also become aware of the possibility of finalising the disposal of highly radioactive waste or spent nuclear material from the territory of Slovenia? Secondly: How does it assess the opportunity to export these wastes to Russia? And thirdly: Is this opportunity for government acceptable and realistic? And: Does he mean to organize and conduct any activities about it? And another question for the Ministry of Finance, which I ask: When will the government or the National Assembly send amendments and additions to the law on the financing of municipalities? The two decisions of the National Assembly of 10 and 11 meetings of the National Assembly are also binding on the government. This means that the Government must submit a law on the financing of municipalities to the National Assembly before the call for a referendum in individual municipalities and to examine Article 26 of the Law on the financing of municipalities, which, according to many Slovene municipalities, is inconsistent with the four articles of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. I thank both representatives very much for the answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u142	Thank you. Who will answer the first question? Mag. Janez the Digger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u143	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The possibility mentioned by Member Bevk in relation to the final storage of spent nuclear fuels exists, because the Russian Federation or Duma, their Parliament, passed a law six months ago allowing for the import and storage of spent nuclear fuel, I think at a site in Siberia. However, it is necessary to be aware of a number of other facts. The first fact is that the Krsko nuclear power plant uses American nuclear fuel and that it is actually difficult to imagine, not only American power plant, but also European agreement on rerouting the supply of nuclear fuel. It is important to know that this option you spoke about also means - although not necessarily automatically - the supply of fuel from the Russian Federation. Not just postponing spent fuel. Well, the other thing is that, of course, right now, we have no guarantee that this could be a permanent solution, which we could also use in the Republic of Slovenia. This is because we do not have any interstate agreement which would impose on the Russian Federation the obligation to conclude two specific commercial companies, namely the nuclear power plant and the company Minatom, which the Russian Federation has established for this, for such transactions, that if these two companies conclude such a contract, then in 2023 or 2025 this contract will also be implemented. There should be a national obligation here. Obligation of the Russian Federation. Well, and third. This is also decisive after all with the conclusion and ratification of the Interstate Agreement between Russia and Slovenia. Third, perhaps most important, is the question of price. According to available information, the Russian Federation or their company Minatom, which is involved, is currently charging about a million dollars for imports. At this point, in Krka, a temporary warehouse of spent nuclear fuel is just over 200 tons of spent nuclear fuel. That means, tough, a little over 200 million U.S. dollars. On the other hand, all the funds that have so far been collected in the Slovenian fund for the decommissioning of the Krško nuclear power plant, which are intended not only for a permanent landfill of spent nuclear fuel, but also for a permanent landfill - low and medium radioactive waste and the decommissioning of the nuclear reactor; all the funds raised so far are, so very at about $70 million. However, to take 10 tons, 50 tons, 70 tons, as far as it might be available at this moment, it makes no sense, because the danger or safety is exactly the same at 10 or 200 tons. I must stress that nuclear fuel is not active, as is the reactor. There's no danger of an explosion here. There's only a risk of radiation from some static source. Well, anyway, it's an opportunity we're getting acquainted with. The government has not yet identified itself - you asked for the position of the government. The government doesn't have that position yet. It is true, however, that we are preparing some information for the government in which we will inform it. However, I am almost certain that this will not be decided very briefly, because this is an indisputable issue that needs to be addressed with the Republic of Croatia, which would have happened within one year of the entry into force of the Interstate Agreement on the Krška Nuclear Power Plant. This is a quantity not only of our concern but also of Croatian concern under the Interstate Agreement. This is, however, a formal problem with Slovenia alone. That is why I think that the Republic of Croatia or their co-owner of the Krška nuclear power plant should also be involved in financing the resolution of this problem. That is why I think it is also inappropriate for a decision to be made very briefly. However, we are certainly interested in staying in contact with the Russian side, communicating with it, gathering information and not rejecting this option as a final solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u144	Thank you. The second question will be answered by the Secretary of State of Mag. Stonewall. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The Law on Community Financing will be prepared in the first trimester of this year, according to the Government's work programme, if I am counting on us to stick to the deadline. The law is being prepared and some draft work is already in order. On this occasion, however, we will also examine thoroughly the non-compliance with the Constitution of Article 26 of the Law on the Financing of the Communities and correct it, if necessary or depending on the findings, in the new law itself.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u146	Thank you. Complementary question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u147	Thank you very much. I thank both Minister Kopač and Secretary of State Kamnareva for the answers. It is clear that an interstate agreement needs to be concluded if we are to enter into this business of exports of spent nuclear fuel to Russia. As far as I know, at the time of its operation, the Krška nuclear power plant has already imported certain quantities of nuclear fuel from Russia. This is a fuel imported from the west into Russia and it is a compatible fuel. After all, if this has already been used in a nuclear power plant, I don't know why it can't be used in the future. Regarding the price for 1,000 kg of spent nuclear fuel, which is supposed to cost $1,000, as you said before, is worth a ton, I said 1,000 kg, is $1,000. Then this number is considered in the world as a very low price for such a business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u148	Thank you. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u149	That's exactly the problem. There are no reference prices at all. Therefore, it is impossible to say whether it is cheap or expensive. The only comparable is the construction of its own permanent landfill. However, contrary to what you said earlier, it is not something that would be very rare. Many countries have arranged their permanent landfills. I think that it is still necessary to seriously consider whether the construction of its own permanent landfill would be significantly more expensive than this option, even though at first glance it seems very elegant.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u150	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'd have a procedural proposal. It's about 6:00 p.m., and this is the hour of normal part of the National Assembly, regardless of the arrangements you've made. I would suggest that the meeting be suspended at this time of the agenda and that it continue at 10 a.m. tomorrow. I mean, why? We are at the point of the parliamentary question and we are barely with the 11th questioner. But it's 42, so I'm wondering when we're gonna end this today. Firstly, I protest that within one year, I have never been on the clock before 6 p.m. Not once in one year of this term. How you sort this out, who's sorting it out - I don't know. That's the first one. Secondly, I protest that I find it extremely distasteful that members of the government coalition are stealing, taking the time of the opposition, which is somehow the largest instrument, as an instrument of opposition. And they ask questions, even though they have a right under the rules of procedure, but in my opinion it is distasteful that they steal time and certainly have many opportunities and opportunities to ask their ministers whenever they want. We certainly don't have that option. I am also protesting this coalition's attitude towards this parliamentary institute. However, I propose that we stop the meeting and continue tomorrow at 10 a.m. because we are also in a subordinate position all those who will now answer or ask questions and receive answers. Most of the national assembly, all those who ask questions, go home and are simply under the honor of asking questions and getting answers in such an atmosphere. This is unacceptable, and I also suggest that the State Assembly be organised in the future so that the questions on the agenda will be on the agenda for two days, if not otherwise. It is unacceptable to blackmail you into achieving some effect in order to answer all questions of the Member States at some point in time. Against this I protest and propose a procedural decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u152	Thank you. I would like to inform you that there is a college meeting, not only now, but it has always been decided that the point of the question is to be brought to an end. Another issue, as regards the representation of individual Members, is that you need to consider in your Group of Members where you will be placed. Yes, according to the agreement of all parliamentary groups. Everyone, I say. Of course, I will not put this proposal to the vote and we will continue the meeting. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u153	This is a violation of the rules of procedure. I protest, you must put it to the vote. If the leaders of the parliamentary groups have so decided, perhaps the Members have now made a different decision. Put it to the vote, maybe the Members think otherwise. I request that you put this proposal to the vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that Members decide how they are to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u154	I've already given my opinion. We're continuing our session. There's a word for Davorin Targeton.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I am referring my question and initiative to the Ministry of the Interior. After 1993, a public security project was carried out, first on a pilot case in Kranj, and later on throughout the country, some police departments were reorganised and closed. Thus, some important municipal centres, tourist sites, and large areas within the country and even in the border band were left without police departments. Let me mention just two cases. The case of Bohinj is a municipality centre with over 5,000 inhabitants, which is also an important tourist destination with a crowd of tourists, with over 300,000 nights per year. We also have an example from Western Slovenia when there is no police station or permanent police department between Novo Gorica and Sežana. This is a very large area, which is a border area where the pressing refugee problem, or crossings, attempts to cross refugees. Inadequate organisation and public security was in the national assembly or in its working bodies [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]] Mr Vice President, please provide me with an opportunity for normal implementation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u156	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u157	Thank you very much. The lack of such organisation and the provision of public security has been pointed out several times in the national assembly or in the working bodies of the national assembly. [[...]] It is evident that the intervention time needed to intervene in such areas has increased significantly already due to the remoteness of permanent police stations. In recent times, however, we have also witnessed some of the serious crimes that have taken place in these areas. The perpetrators of crimes also appear to be adapting to this organisation. Let me mention only the last such case when two bank robberies took place on the same day, both in Lights and in Komno. In this second case, there was already another robbery committed over a period of approximately one year at the same bank. I suspect it was the same perpetrators who were supposed to escape across the border, according to media reports. The perpetrators, as far as I know, are not yet under arrest. Needless to say, this is a border area where the police department used to be, but now it's not, where the nearest police station is over 20 kilometers away. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] I'll finish. I'll just give you the initiative. In the interest of ensuring a higher level of public security for all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, no matter where they live, I give the Ministry of Home Affairs and the police an initiative - I hope that they will coordinate, in contrast to many other cases: to explore the possibility of re-establishing police departments at least in some of the most pressing cases, i.e. more important municipal centres, tourist sites and border police centres. I expect a written response to this initiative, as well as a written analysis of the rationalisation and effectiveness of this public security project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u158	Thank you. Does Minister Rado Bohinc want to answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u159	Thank you very much, Mr Tarchoon, for this initiative, so I understood the question. I can assure you that we will carry out an evaluation of this reorganisation that dates back to a given year in 1995. Current analyses do not show that intervention time or level of investigation would be in any way related to these organizational changes. This organisational concept is based on the fact that security coverage is also provided in areas where there are no police stations or departments. This, of course, does not exclude what I said, that we will perform an evaluation of this action, make an analysis, familiarize you with these findings and also design solutions on this basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u160	Thank you. Please, supplemental question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u161	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I must say that I have already asked some questions. Usually, you have to put me away relatively quickly with some of your findings that I can't really agree with. When I mentioned this second case that I was talking about, I must also say that there was an intervention from a police station more than 20 km away. There were no patrols on the ground, even though I know you've got patrols on the ground, but there's been an intervention. I have to say, the next day, there was a re-intervention, I hear a false alarm went off, and I don't know what happened. Of course, when the police were driving into this place, they were driving at the right speed to do the intervention in a timely manner. However, they could not, according to the laws of physics, because such a place is far more distant. This is a specific case that says it's not what you say it is. However, I expect, as you have told me, a written response to this initiative and that you will carefully examine these options, because in specific cases there are situations where it is necessary to reconsider and probably also make a decision in the direction in which I have directed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u162	Thank you. Mr Igor Štemberger has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. It is known that there are still several thousand refugees in Slovenia from the republics of the former Yugoslavia. These have been with us for several years, some of them for a decade. I think it's high time we accepted the fact that these people will never return to their former homes. I want to know what status these people enjoy with us today. I believe that they are largely left to their own ingenuity, to work on black, charities and the like. While the larger refugee cities are mostly shaken up, the so-called refugee centres are still present on the periphery. So today we have refugee centres in Illyrian Bistrica, Kozina, Postojna, Montenegro and more. There they occupy premises that could be used or marketed by the State and the municipalities for other purposes. This will not happen indefinitely, so I ask: Has the government been able to draw up a plan in all these years to involve these people in society? This would help them to survive on their own, but at the same time they would no longer be a burden on the country, not the local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u164	Thank you. Will the Minister answer, Dr. Rado Bohinc? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u165	The honourable Member may have in mind refugees who are established within the Centres of the Office of Refugees in the Government. It's the status of these people. They're persons with temporary detention. During last year, the government adopted guidelines and policies to promote return, including the monetary amounts it recognised as returning home in certain periods. Some of the results of this activity have been, so we are now recording a few more homecomings. Of course, this activity has also led to a conclusion, as the Member himself states, that for a large majority of these people it will be necessary to adopt integration programmes because their decisions, despite material stimulation, are such that they want to stay in Slovenia. We are therefore preparing, together with other ministries, integration programmes, which we will also present, in more detail in the written answer to this question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u166	Thank you. Mr. Yuri Malovre has the floor. Please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Dear President! I am speaking on behalf of the Group of Members and I am protesting against the way in which you did not put forward a proposal for a motion of procedure, a motion for a vote. You are obliged to do so in accordance with the rules of procedure in force and in accordance with Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure. I therefore call on you, as President, to put the procedural proposal put before me by my fellow Member Kelemin to a vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u168	Thank you. I will not put your proposal to the vote for the reason I have already stated. The leaders of the parliamentary groups decided, not only for this meeting, but for all the meetings, that this point would take place to the end. For this reason, of course, I will not put your proposal to the vote. I believe that the agreement of the leaders of the parliamentary groups is already such an agreement that we must stick to it. The word is Yuri Malovre.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u169	Yes, but it's not a dictatorship, it's a parliament, Mr Vice-President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u170	Mr. Yuri Malovre has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u171	Mr. Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Also a nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry and the government. My first question concerns the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and partly the Ministry of Finance. The second question concerns the Ministry of the Interior, namely dog taxes. Maybe someone will smile, though. The vaccine or vaccine is 10% of this fee and the service is 10%, and 80% of it is lost or disappearing somewhere. Once these funds were used, while the municipality was together with the administrative unit or while the municipality was such a "shika", the funds were intended primarily for vaccination, for asylum for small animals, for the removal of cadavers, for the vaccination of foxes against rabies, for the short term for the protection of animals. The municipalities then organized asylums, and so those who organized these asylums were misled, and the animal protection law now imposes this on the local community. My proposal is that the fees will be returned to the original revenue of the municipality, because they will either disappear or if this is not done, they should be paid from the state budget of the case under the Animal Protection Act. The second question or initiative concerns the Ministry of the Interior. The Regulation or Order on Technical Inspections provides for stickers in vehicles on the right-hand side of the car. If the label is damaged for any reason, the instruction or order or regulation, as we say, requires a re-examination with the toll, although there are no valid reasons. This results in damage to vehicle owners of approximately 9,000 tolars, although the cost of the sticker is combined with the installation of approximately 1,300 tolars. I am taking the initiative to amend this Regulation on technical checks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u172	Thank you. First, the Secretary of State, Dr. Čadonic Špelič, will respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u173	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor, Mr Malovre. Thanks for the initiative. I understand your question in fact as an initiative from the two ministries. The Ministry of Agriculture, of course, accepts this initiative or partly accepts it, following, of course, coordination with the Ministry of Finance. I would like to tell you that when we collect money for vaccination, we don’t just call it a tax, we call it a fee. The fee, however, means [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u174	Don't let anything get in the way of your choice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u175	that this money is strictly intended for the payment of certain services, which you have already listed. [[...]] For example, removal and removal of dead animals, identification of cause of death, vaccination of foxes. It must be recognised that such services are being paid from the state, i.e. from an integrated budget and by this same logic, of course, this money is being poured into this budget. But the fact is, as you yourself have found, that part of the funds must also be poured back into the local community, in the part where local communities provide shelter for animals. Under the law against animal torture and later under this law, local communities have this duty, as well as the right to require from the State up to 50 per cent of co-financing of such detentions. As regards the financing of this work, of course, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, this part of the fees could also be called fees and, of course, collected on municipal budgets. I therefore propose to be complemented by a colleague from the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u176	Thank you. The second question will be answered by Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u177	If the Regulation is understood or implemented in this way, it is necessary to amend it, as the purpose of the Regulation holder was not, in any event, that, in the event of loss or destruction of the label, the fee should be paid once again. There is a way to prove that the fee was paid at the sticker. This is either a payment certificate or a technical review carried out, and this is an easy way to prove it if loss or destruction occurs. However, if such interpretations are allowed and I understand that you have been warned in this way by a service organization, then this is a serious reason to arrange this by making it more precise or more precise. I thank you for that warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u178	Thank you. There's a word, sir, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u179	Mr Vice-President, given that there has been an agreement, as you yourself have mentioned, that parliamentary issues - and so so far - have always been following the agenda adopted, but today there has been a one-hour break, and since the 88th Rule of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which is applicable, still applies to me and to you, it is stated in the third paragraph that procedural matters are decided by the State Assembly immediately without discussion and without explanation of vote, I propose that we end the agenda. If your explanation is different, it is, of course, your duty to put your explanation to the vote of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u180	Dear colleague, I must answer that this is not a procedural question. It was an agreement on how it will work, and it is clear to everyone that the National Assembly must also be productive in some way. We can't, but now I'm making it up, for three days, to lead the questions sent. Because of this proposal, whatever will come in this direction, I will not put it to the vote. I myself interpret the rules of procedure and arrangements in the manner I have said. There's no replica, you've already told your story. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u181	Nine months ago, I was visited by Trboveljcanka, a woman in her 50 ’ s who suffered from polio in her 50 ’ s. It is acknowledged for 70% of disability or disability and is unemployed. However, since the disease was caused by insurance, it has no disability or disability. But that absurdity is even greater, no one wants to work because it is 70% of the body's disability, without disability and the possibility of disability. The question is, what happened before, chicken or egg? That's her problem, that's her problem in writing, exactly seven months ago, I addressed it to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs. I didn't get an answer until today. That is why, with a huge number of visits to this lady who spoke on behalf - please, if you are listening specifically to the data - more than 600 patients in the years 1950 to 1955 for polio, of which more than 500 have died since then, who have a recognised physical disability - disability, disability and disability pension options, but not, unlike those who may have been also ill before insurance, have chosen disability and disability insurance. Plus, the boreliosis is 90% healed earlier, and the polio isn't. A woman is unemployed, does not have a disability, cannot retire disabled, no one takes her because she is disabled, has - this is the biggest nonsense - she has a benified working age, which does not apply her mathematically, five or seven times nothing is still nothing. I promised her because there was no answer to ask this question publicly why. Why is this disability not taken into account in this disease? Why do we in particular speak or act according to SFRY legislation? I promised her that this would be a public issue and that she and maybe 400 of the same would be able to see it publicly and hear it here today, because I have been asking questions every session so far. I could be asking populist, political, important questions. I have so much knowledge, but I don't. I am loved by the people, and I always ask questions from the Rippers, from the base where I am. And today she won't get an answer. I'm not going to talk to us here because no answer from here is going to get this hospital. She won't know anything and nothing again, so I won't ask you a question. I join the demands of colleagues and colleagues. It is wrong to do so, for the answer needs a person who is at home who does not have the opportunity to sit here. I don't need an answer, or you here, which we'll forget in five minutes when we walk through the door. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u182	Thank you. I didn't understand whether you wanted an answer or not. I understand you're not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u183	No, no, no. I'm not even gonna ask you a question because it doesn't serve anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u184	Good. Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Mamić has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u185	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! Certainly not the one who runs this session today. I do not recognise it as a leading meeting of the National Assembly because it violates Article 88(3) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, all who violate the rules of procedure of the National Assembly are not able to lead a national assembly. It's for me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u186	Mr. Puksich, thank you very much. Please limit yourself to the question of the mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u187	That's why there's no such thing for me and this national council. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u188	I have taken your word away from you because you are not performing in the sense of the question. Please continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u189	I insist in my statement that this National Assembly, I think there are about 20 members of the National Assembly in the Chamber and there is no one to lead this National Assembly. Indeed, the one who runs the national assembly must do so in accordance with the rules of procedure. The rules of procedure of the National Assembly cannot be violated four times. As long as the rules of procedure are in force, they shall apply to all. Also for those who are Vice-Presidents of this National Assembly and whose duty is to lead the National Assembly [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u190	Mr. Puksich! Once again, I remind you that you are not performing in the sense of the questions put forward. You're talking about some other stuff. If you continue to do so, I will take your word and even have you removed from the hall. Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u191	I am afraid that there are not enough people to remove me from the Chamber, because there are simply not enough Members and Members of the National Assembly in this Chamber to be concluding, so you will have to make a decision. However, the fact is that it is not possible to ask ministers and secretaries present today and that there are no equal conditions for Members and Members of this National Assembly, so it is not possible to raise the question of a Member for a simple reason, because those who should preside over the National Assembly are in breach of the rules of procedure of the National Assembly. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u192	Mr. Pukšič, you're going back to your previous song. Come on, please, stop!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u193	He took over twice, so he broke up. [[...]] [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u194	I took your word and gave it to Mark Diacia. [[Ambassador Pukšič speaks from the bench.]] Doesn't matter what you admit. Mr. Marko Diaci has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u195	Thank you. I refer the question to the Ministry of Economy, specifically the State Secretary for Regional Development, Mr Strmšnik, and I am interested in the following. The Agency for Regional Development issued a rather unfavourable opinion on the Sava Region’s development programme in mid-December last year, according to my information. This regional development programme, the host of which was the regional development agency Celje, was reviewed and also confirmed in most municipalities in the region. Subsequently, the State Development Agency revised its opinion on this development programme. That's why I'm interested in the following. First time. Is the regional development programme of the Savini region a suitable basis or what the opinion of the Agency for Regional Development is? Another time. What are the possible comments and recommendations to improve this regional development programme of the Savinja region? a.k.a. Third time. Is and how is the relationship with the budget or the State Development Programme established for the period 2001 to 2006, so that other regional development programmes and, of course, other regional development programmes can also be implemented? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u196	Thank you. The Secretary of State will answer. Igor Strmnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u197	Thank you very much, distinguished Member. The Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia shall, in accordance with the sub-legislative act governing this matter, give an opinion on the programme submitted by the region. The region submitted its programme, the agency gave an opinion. This opinion was based on an evaluation carried out by an external institution, a non-governmental institution. In this opinion, it cited some of the concerns or shortcomings that should be addressed further in the preparation of this programme. The problem that arose was because the regional development programme was adopted before the opinion of the Agency was issued by most municipalities. This means that this opinion will have to be taken into account when implementing this regional development programme or later when it is complemented. The opinion is not a mandatory condition for the regional development programme to apply. The opinion must only be present; the law requires it to be present when decisions are made by the municipalities. We discussed this issue with the region, and the agreement was to complete the regional development programme before it was submitted to the Council for Structural Policy in those parts concerning indicators enabling it to be monitored later. We simply need these indicators to be able to monitor later the implementation of this programme. Otherwise, all the recommendations made by the agencies, which are of course, are not so fatal that they could say that the programme is not good. Absolutely not. It is only the Agency's recommendations on how this programme can be further improved or what is still missing. We expect the regional development agency to familiarise the mayors of municipalities with this opinion. Then, of course, the mayors of the municipalities will decide whether there is a need for re-examination in the holy congregations. We believe that this will probably not be necessary, given the opinion given. The link between the budget and the national development programme and the regional development programme. This is the subject of our efforts this year. We have already done a lot in connection with the state budget. We systematically analyse individual ministries' calls and identify the regional dimension in these calls. In the case of 2001 this data base is now very clear, showing where these regional incentives of different ministries are actually located and where they are directed. We expect to complete this analysis in the first quarter of this year, and we will also inform the government and probably the national assembly. The agreement was on the Economic Commission for Europe to draw up such information to the Economic Committee. The link to the State Development Programme is also the task of this year. The government adopted the National Development Programme in December last year as a basis for further coordination, both with the European Commission and with the regions and other partners involved in the preparation, implementation and preparation of this Programme alone. This way you can expect certain coordination between the regional, Savino region and the national development programme to take place during this year. About the funds. I've already talked about this today. We believe that funds exist for the implementation of the regional development programme. The more this information base is clear, the more we are more confident that there are in fact sufficient incentives in the ministries to launch regional development programmes. Of course, we can't change two things. The funds earmarked for regions lagging behind in development are referred to as the most vulnerable areas in Slovenia, and these funds are referred to as direct regional development incentives, which are intended for Areas A, also Area B this year, to the Savini region, and probably not in the future, and the resources of the various ministries implementing their programmes in the Savini region. The Sava region has presented in its programme a rather ambitious employment plan, measures in the area of human resources development. It's a matter of the Ministry of Labour. This is an application for the budget of the Ministry of Labour. Many projects are presented concerning the budget of the Ministry of Environment and Space and, of course, of all other ministries. Our job this year is to support the regional development programmes with budgets and the state development programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u198	Thank you. Please, supplemental question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u199	Thank you. Now all I care about is your personal opinion. From the debate you have had, I have not been able to summarise precisely, do you think that this regional development programme is a suitable basis or not?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u200	Absolutely. The regional development programme is well prepared. The Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia has never given an opinion that it is not a suitable basis. However, she made certain comments and wondered how to improve the matter. That's my opinion, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u201	Thank you. Mr. Mario Gasparini has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u202	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be brief. It's a drug problem. As we know, what is available to us to get them out of this is the help they get from some civil society, is methadone, is detoxification, and eventually there are communes. I'd stop at these communes because there are certain problems. If he's a drug addict in the commune, whether it's considered a treatment, or as a definition given by some commission who was the Ministry of Health. I have a paper here signed by the secretary three years ago that it's actually a social rehabilitation. You need to know that if this is treated as a social rehabilitation of such an addict who has been in a working relationship, he does not have the right to pay after 30 days. That's the problem. Last week, our Justice Minister was in Portorož with Don Pierin. That is to say, we are certainly giving some weight to these communes, which we have also established in Slovenia, not only outside. And we found out how many prisoners we have, how many percent of these prisoners are drug addicts and so on. If the court orders him to suspend the prison sentence, the drug addict concerned, who has spent his time in prison, and the court has ordered him to go to the commune, then it's all paid for. But if someone by themselves goes into the commune because methadone, for example, doesn't help, but I don't know what kind of society doesn't help him, and so on, I don't even talk about detox, because it doesn't work, then he has to pay for it himself. What this means to the family, you don't have to talk. The question is even broader: Do we count drug addicts as patients? Is the presence of drug addicts in community therapy or is it social rehabilitation? Those are my two questions. There is no need for the Minister to answer me now, because I would like a written answer to this - to carry out a review of this once. I think a lot of families are hurt, and that's also financially, not to mention other things. I think we should solve these problems sometime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u203	Thank you. The Minister of Health will answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u204	Even though I agree that this needs to be re-examined and made available on written grounds, let me answer something. Yeah, the junkie's a patient. No, it is not true that any procedure the world has set aside is also possible to pay. There are procedures in the treatment of drug addicts and also in the treatment of other patients that are not taken into the treatment programme. When there is new and new evidence and when it comes through the decision-making process, what is payable and what is not, then, of course, each year we decide what is coming into the program. We just don't pay a lot of procedures for other patients right now because there's no money for that. [[in mind we only have the latest medicines in the process of recognition]] . In the area of treatment that you mentioned, however, there is a professional dilemma that exists and which also provides a basis for relative - and I agree with you - to a relatively reserved decision. I understand and accept your proposal, Mr Member, that we are trying not only to answer you in writing, but also to re-check with all those professional institutions, as well as with the mercenaries who are relevant in this area, to see if we can give a new, different answer than has been the previous one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Can I help you? Thank you. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. He's not here? Mrs Maja Zupan, who is not either, has the floor. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u206	Thank you very much. The question is whether, in these completely irregular conditions, it makes sense to ask the question of the Member States. Mr President, you have so far violated the rules of procedure and have not put to the vote for a procedural proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u207	Please limit yourself to the question of the mission.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u208	I have to tell you this because you keep breaking the rules of procedure. But I will ask questions, even though the situation is irregular. First, I'd like to ask the Ministry of Information. In response to Members of Parliament's questions, the Government has provided some answers to the questions of Members Kelemin and Jerovska, which do not correspond to the actual situation. In reply 17.4., the Secretary of State, Mr Kalin, thus stated that Mr. Director is a mag. Podgorica from Post Slovenia immediately after appointment for v.d. the Director-General has initiated the withdrawal procedure for the payment of the compensation under the competitive clause. In response to the written question of Mr Kelemin on 17.9.2001, the reply provided by the Government is that the lawyer has not withdrawn the action until 23.7.2001. According to our information, in the annexes, there is a lot of false or counterfeit data on the value of Mail Slovenia's business assets and certain financial matters. I call on the government to provide accurate data and replace inaccurate data with true data by the LDS Congress. At the same time, I ask the Minister of the Information Society what compensation for the unused part of the annual leave was paid to the leading employees of Post Slovenia, including the Director-General during the period 1998-2000. I also ask whether millions of payments, allowances are eligible for all responsible workers with individual contracts, employees in the state administration and state-owned companies, including Members, or whether we are entitled to it, or whether it is a prerequisite that the senior official in question is a ruling party. I further ask the government or the Ministry of Finance. In Ljubljana we are witnessing in these days the unusual perceptions that the public sector should expand to the banking sector by recapitalisation or acquisition of majority ownership in the current private bank, the Slovenian Investment Bank. The public energy company is expected to generate such profits through public service charges that it is now able to expand into the financial sector. We know it's [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u209	Please ask a question specifically.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u210	I'll put it up. We know that over the net for each kilowatt Energy was paid 0.36 tolars per kilowatt. Now there's a financial surplus and they're moving out of the Slovenians' pockets to buy this bank. So I ask or have more questions, but I will only ask this as a finance minister: Is it not just a transitional resolution of a private bank that has had poor investment in the pursuit of other transitional objectives and that is the anti-constitutional operation of the city mayor? How the Local Self-Government Service Will Respond — Will It Be Against the Mayor? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u211	Mr. Ambassador! We're not in the city council of Ljubljana. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u212	legal sanctions. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u213	Thank you. Who's going to answer? Please, Secretary of State Dr. Kalin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u214	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Jerovšek. The question, of course, was extremely complicated, full of dates, what was false, what was not. It is not false, there may be some error that we will check and reply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 3 days before the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u215	Thank you. You want to ask an additional question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u216	I have not yet received a response from the Ministry of Finance regarding the machinations in the purchase of the Slovenian Investment Bank. I hope I get it, at least in writing, if the government isn't able to. I would also say to Mr Kalin that I expected you to have more information on irregularities in the Post Office of Slovenia. I asked you to give me this information, this written answer this week, before the Congress of Liberal Democracy, because many of your kind also ask me about these irregularities that are happening there.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u217	Thank you. Please, Madam Secretary of State, Mag. The stoner.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'm afraid I didn't understand your question. So I would ask if you could send us what you wanted to read, but you skipped the sentences a little bit, because the time was forcing you to do so, and we will send you a reply in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u219	Thank you. Mr. Janez Petty Officer has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr Sušnik Franc has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Dear ministers, representatives of the government! My question is addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. France Booth. In the second annual issue of the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development, issued an invitation to tender for the collection of applications for grants under the Sapard programme. The Agency for Agricultural Markets and Rural Development has also launched the SAPARD programme with more than a one-year delay. After more than one year of delay, the Agency has been authorised or accredited to carry out its basic mission, as our poor tradition in the functioning of internal controls in the implementation of the national budget has so far failed to meet the conditions required by the EU to ensure transparent spending and use of budgetary resources. Thus, only in 2002, more precisely in the past week, the Agency opened a tender for the use of European Union aid, the SAPARD programme, for 2002. This will be followed by an invitation to tender for 2001 and only then by an invitation to tender for the current year 2002. Slovenia has allocated at least EUR 6.4 million from the EU to all candidates. However, this money is needed from the first call for 2002 totalling just over 2 billion, until the end of 2002. After a review of the tender documentation and of the interest shown among Slovenian farmers, which, by the way and according to the Slovenian Agricultural and Agriculture Chamber, is very poor, as according to the same Chamber of Funds of the first measure relating to investment in agricultural holdings, only about 20 Slovenian farmers are interested, the question arises if this money is spent within the deadline and for the intended purpose. Obviously, it is necessary to find the main reason for a small interest among our farmers in co-financing investments in agricultural holdings in strict, mildly speaking, non-life criteria, which are in particular the following: unclear, complexly defined object of support or purpose, other, too complicated documentation required, with many unnecessary administrative annexes, too strict and overly set criteria of education, criteria of choice of the area, adverse relationship between leased and own land, 8 and more hectares of comparable area, age of the farm owner under 40 years of age, priority will be given to those who will apply earlier and so on. All of this is more dissuading than attracting our farmer, and in no case is a good traveller to the invitation to tender. Moreover, the proposed method of spending or implementing the SAPARD programme as one of the three pre-accession programmes is seriously questioned. Such a selective and exclusive call certainly does not lead to a goal, namely sustainable and comprehensive rural development. Unwittingly, it seems that the call is already in advance only for selected beneficiaries who have been informally familiar with the tendering conditions or that these tendering conditions are intended for them and that there is no spending of money, which is an old and stable practice at the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u221	Please ask a specific question from the Member States.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u222	I ask Minister, Mr France Booth, are the tendering conditions of this first call sufficiently thoughtful and consistent with the so-called coherent regional development and rural development? Are the tendering conditions of the first Sapard call and the method of reporting truly in line with EU rules? Are you thinking about new criteria? If you are preparing new criteria, when will you repeat them or complete the invitation to tender? I thank you for your tolerance for the time-consuming, but I have also drawn up the question in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u223	Thank you. The answer will be given by the Secretary of State, Dr. Vida Čadonic Špelič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u224	Mr Member, thank you for the question. In many ways, as you have just said, as a representative of the Ministry of Agriculture, I could agree with you, in particular with the strict conditions for the allocation of funds. These conditions, of course, are not a matter of our ministry, these are conditions which unfortunately had to be prescribed under the conditions of the European Union, as this is also a matter of money to be allocated from the European Union. However, I would like to inform you that these conditions have been made available to all those who know European legislation. What I'm saying is that they weren't written for anyone, no individual. It is true, however, that at this point probably few Slovenian farmers can meet these conditions, but the numbers you have listed are, in my opinion, very low, and the numbers we have been warned about are slightly higher. These conditions are therefore the conditions which have been adopted in the European Union or have been negotiated there and, of course, we must take them into account in this invitation to tender because the invitation to tender has already been published. I can say that they have been clever enough, which does not mean that we will not yet deal with these conditions, of course, in cooperation with the representatives of the European Union. Thus, Minister Booth has already decided that for the next year, due to warnings from the agri-economic chambers, the Agency's experts are once again trying to achieve lower conditions, which does not, of course, mean that the result will be positive, but we will once again try to draw the European Union's attention to the specificity of Slovenia. For when you spoke - say - about the size of farms, about education, we must admit that Slovenia is here, of course because of its smallness, compared to other countries, we could say even in a subordinate situation. So, of course, we will take your initiative in our ministry seriously. Thank you for preparing it in writing as well. If you want any more exact information, please tell us, but of course we will then provide you in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u225	Please, supplemental.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u226	Look. On one similar subject, I have already written a question to the Minister of Agriculture and to the Minister of Health who replied to me - it was about comparing some standards in agriculture in Slovenia and in neighbouring European countries. I got the answer that it will - specifically this is about the frequency of medical examinations, which is the obligation of dairy workers, that is to say, those farmers who are involved in milk production and in the processing industry. There I received a response signed by both ministries to align the frequency or frequency of health checks, which is 5 times higher than in Europe, with the Regulation, with the corresponding Regulation of 1.1.2002 with neighbouring Austria and Italy. Now, unfortunately, I am not very skilled at monitoring the publication of these regulations. I expect now to receive an answer that this Regulation has been adopted within the time limit set out in the reply, as well as enforcement. If not, I expect Mr Kebra to give me a new deadline for the implementation of this Regulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u227	Thank you. Mrs Tisovic Maria has the floor. She's not here. Mr. Sugar France has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u228	Thank you for your word. But I'm sorry I won't ask you a question. Indeed, it is difficult to discuss such conduct.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u229	Thank you. Mr. Sok Aloys has the floor. He's not here. Mr. Branko Kelemina has the floor. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u230	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u231	One moment, please. There you go, please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u232	Mr Vice-President, I have asked, and I rightly expect another oral answer to my oral question - to the second part. I'd like to ask nicely.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u233	I'm sorry. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u234	Allow me, I understand, perhaps it is wrong that the second time you responded to the comment on the first answer that you just mentioned in parallel from the past, in your opinion, an unanswered question. I didn't understand him as an answer. So, yes, we'll give you the data in writing, by the time we sort out what you've already requested in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u235	Thank you. Mr. Kelmina Branko has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u236	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable audience. I represent, of course, even the total abuse of the institution of the question. This is the picture you're looking at right now. Your Honor, I'm afraid that's the way it is. I'm gonna ask you a question because I have that right. I'm just gonna start with the newspaper articles. Work, 29.11.2001 affair at the Ministry of Education and Sport: Original sin is on the CVI, first article. Next article, Perenič, gazelle on state pastures, Thursday, 13 December Finance. The following goes again with the CVI, next article Work, Thursday, December 13th: Really, the errors have been made. Of course, responsibility - leaving only one deputy there. Next article, Work, 17.12.: affairs, Hit, billions, politics, whatever. Read this, if you're not yet, distinguished representatives of the government. Next article: This is Mag, bound by billions. And so on. In all these articles, in all these matters, I now ask the government what it has done in this area. In fact, I have not observed anywhere what measures have been taken at the CVI in relation to all these affairs that have taken place there. Responsible for all these things that are going on there - the alleged heavy 100 million - is responsible for this area, of course, none other than the distinguished Secretary-General, Mr Mirko Bandelj. This is all under his jurisdiction. Instead of dealing with these cases, he sues journalists for insults and so on and claims that he has been repeatedly ridiculed and targeted by individuals, colored questions and comments as a result of his publication. Subjects objected to him, causing him to suffer mental pain. Poor poor thing!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u237	Mr. Kelemina! Please, please, ask a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u238	Yeah, I'm gonna ask you a question. I'm just commenting on newspaper articles that have no response, Mr. Vice President! Do I have that right or do I not have it? If I do, then please let me do it. I have a list here, 78 people. Nobody knows what they're doing or how they're doing. The ultimate ignorance of all is that Perenič ends up making fun of everything and putting all these articles that are written on his website and making fun of this authority and this country of law. I ask the government: What has she done to regulate all these situations in this area? And, of course, there is an open letter to the government and Drnovšku. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u239	Thank you. The Secretary-General of the Government, Mr Bandelj, will answer. Please turn it off. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u240	Thank you very much. Of course, I'm not going to be as insulting as you were, and I'm not going to comment on the newspaper articles, because I don't think this is the right place. Nor do I want to react to newspaper articles because at least something in my life I have learned that at least 50% of what is written as an affair is simply not true. The fact is that in all of these statements you mentioned, in only one case, there was an infringement, and it was also relatively modest, and it has not yet been assessed as to the actual consequences of the wrong decisions and mistrials at the Ministry of Education. Some estimates show that the business has nevertheless been properly carried out, that the product is useful and serves its purpose. That's why we can't talk about a few hundred million damages. But the fact is, the deal was so big, but he didn't go, if I may say so, to the francs. That is why we have also found responsibility where this occurred, this error, and the responsibility has been established. And in this regard, in fact, one small part of the responsibility is also on the CVI, which has only set standards, of course, was not the primary part of the responsibility for this business. However, in the event of a finding of what was involved and where the error was made, the maximum possible sanction was withdrawn. The man who took part in this procedure was dismissed from the post of Deputy Director. With regard to the other statements concerning Mr Perenić, I think he has made this very clear himself. The Public Procurement Office also publicly commented on these publications and explained them, and, of course, I will not comment on them myself from the newspapers. However, I can say that there was no infringement of the rules and therefore there was no need to act on the role and work of Mr Perenić, even in connection with the Government's IT centre. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u241	Thank you. Please, supplemental question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u242	Thank you very much. The Honourable Secretary-General, of course, logically, you will be all these statements, which have been published in the media and which are credible for me - in some cases I believe also in journalists - you will deny them, it is your duty, it is also your professional duty. But, look, the shower writes, let's say your brother works there too -- the question is, how much did he get paid for it, and so on. I would ask you to send me all this information: How much did he get paid? What did he get paid for? What was he doing? And so on. These things need to be explored. I hope that you will also put all these answers to the written questions that I will ask further - as an open letter, of course, as an open question, and this will follow tomorrow. I expect that the responsibility will also be fully established in all directions and that all those involved in these procedures - according to my assessment, to the extent that I have understood from these articles, that it is also possible to abuse situations - that all those responsible will actually resign, not only those subordinates, the latter, at the final stage, all. And if you don't give me the exact data within 14 days, I'll also indicate this in my letter, I'll start collecting signatures for the investigative commission, which will actually figure out what was going on here. And then I'll prove it to you because I have documents to prove to you that you've abused your positions. And the whole species of you are who have abused the positions on the CVI, and you, Mr. Bandelj, are responsible for these things. I'll prove it, if not otherwise, with an investigative committee. I'll start collecting signatures. So I expect you to do the right thing, but, of course, please also send me all of this information, which I have now also mentioned in relation to all the information that exists in these documents. I expect you to do so gladly to justify your justified work, as you do, or to explain the innocence or correctness of your work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u243	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u244	I, of course, will not prove my innocence. It's not my duty to do this, and I won't. I can, of course, reject all your insinuations and all your rudeness. Of course, you will also get the right answers to the question, which will be properly posed. But we are not going to comment on the newspaper articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-22-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u245	Thank you. Give me a break, please. I hereby conclude this agenda item. However, I would like to thank the representatives of the Government for the answers and cooperation given. I am adjourning the meeting, we will continue the meeting tomorrow at 10 a.m. and will discuss item 2 of the agenda and then item 3 and orderly. Goodbye. Good night.
