ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the continuation of the 19th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Franci Rokavec, Franc Kangler, Rudolf Petan, Dorijan Marsič, Jože Ašič, Valentin Pohorec, Silva Črnugelj by 3 p.m., Andrej Vizjak, Victory Jelinčič Plementi, Alojz Sok, Josef Školč for the beginning of the session, Stana Stopar, Blaž Kavčič and Jožef Kavtičnik. Since we're going to be able to determine the presence, I'd like to ask you to insert the cards. Colleagues and colleagues who have not yet joined us, please join us so as not to start a meeting too late. Since we will determine the presence, colleagues and colleagues who have not yet joined us, please join us, because we will begin, as usual, by establishing the presence in the hall. I'm going to be taking a look at the presence, so I'd like to ask your attention. I'm detecting a presence in the hall. Some objection from the hall is that the voting apparatus did not work. I'd like everyone with due attention to insert their card. I ask the technical services if they can check the voting device with Mrs. Cveti Zalokar Orazem. Thank you very much. I'm asking if she's okay. Thank you very much. We'll determine the presence. We're detecting a presence. May I have your attention, sir, because we're detecting a presence in the hall. There are 49 of us present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide. We have also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting, which I very much welcome. At the beginning of today's extraordinary meeting of the 19th National Assembly, we will first consider the 18th item of the agenda, this is the conclusion of the termination of the term of office of the Member of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, after which the meeting will be moved to the hearing of the 13th paragraph yesterday, this is a proposal for a law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network, then the 12th item, this is a proposal for a bill on psychological activity, the 14th reading, this is a proposal for a law on war graves, and in order to proceed. So we move on to 18. On the day-to-day basis - the understanding of the suspension of the mandate of the Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia. The Ambassador of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Andrej Gerenčer, informed the assembly on 8.5.2002 that he would begin his duties as Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to Hungary in June 2002, which is incompatible with the function of the Member in accordance with the provisions of the fifth indent of Article 9 of the Law on Members. You received a written notice. The notification was discussed by a mandate-immunity commission of the National Assembly, which reported in writing to the assembly. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. On the basis of the above and in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members and Article 248(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the National Assembly took note of the following finding: the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the Member, Mr Andrej Gerenčer, will commence the function of Ambassador of the Republic of Slovenia to Hungary in June 2002, which is incompatible with the performance of the duties of the Member under Article 10 of the Law on Members, and therefore, in accordance with the fifth indent of the first paragraph and Article 9(2) of the Law on Members, terminates its mandate as of today. Dear colleague, Mr. Andrey Gerencher! Allow me to sincerely thank you, on behalf of all of us, for the work that you have done and contributed to the work of the National Assembly and, of course, on behalf of all of us, I wish a successful work on a new job. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President for your good wishes. Unfortunately, I'm going to need them because I have a responsible job ahead of me, and I hope I can do it. I wish you all great success in your responsible work. Thank you for your cooperation. At 7:00 p.m. tonight, I invite you to a glass to toast my departure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. This concludes this agenda item and brings us to yesterday's cut-off point of the agenda, which is the 13th item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal for a law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network, the rapid procedure. Yesterday we held a good part of the general debate, which we have not yet concluded because some Members and also Mr Minister wanted a word. I think he spoke to Mr. Tuckyat yesterday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. One thing that really bothers me is the consideration of this law, or the position of the ministry or government. It's the next one. At that time, it is certain that the costs that the people of the poorer places had to provide or cover in order to reach a telephone connection are not only connected, it is not just common connectivity, but also assets that represented investments in the base, in the capital on which it developed and increased this activity in their areas. [[It was about centrals, water and stuff like that.]] . Investments, of course, are valued and valued in a manner that is appropriate. Not long ago, when we dealt with investments in insurance companies and allowed or legalized the return of 750% or the investment of the time, ten years ago, are now raised by 750%. This is, of course, more than once more than the best global measures for the best intermediaries and for the best companies that represent the best yields. And yet, we've passed the law. Now, in these investments, where the question of another layer, of another political, economic layer of the population, is concerned, we do not allow the same value to be guaranteed, i.e. without yield, without interest, without raising the value. It seems to me that this is extremely double-faced, extremely unfair to these people, and, as I said, I am disturbed by the government's most attitude towards this issue. In fact, not only here, but also in other cases, but above all here is the expression that the government or the minister will yield to the principles of justice as much as the Constitutional Court or the National Assembly will order. But I would like the country itself to incorporate this element of justice into its system; that every government - perhaps too much to expect, but also your government - will have at least a few hearings for this basic element that shapes the attitude towards those who are ruled by it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go. Then Mr. Pukšič and Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Members and Members! In fact, I am very sorry that we have resolved Mr Gerencher before this vote, because the area from which it comes would certainly be the joy of his additional vote for this law or for this problem that comes before us. I would like to add some things besides what I said yesterday on behalf of the Group of Members here. I would like to say that, and remind you, honourable Members and Members, we have received many letters from the affected local communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u7	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u8	That we have received a number of regulations from affected local communities in which we are reminded of our duty and a wise decision in this matter. I would like to draw attention to the fact that we have received a letter today from the board of associations of those who paid on the phone saying in this letter that they are still prepared for a compromise solution and for a wise and smart agreement with the government. Otherwise, of course, in this association, they will probably go to collecting signatures for the referendum. The referendum will certainly cost a lot. I know that it is possible to manipulate public opinion in this direction, in fact, in most areas where telephone problems are not solved in the way they are in rural areas, in a referendum against. I'm aware of that. It's possible to do that. It is possible to tell people that if these beneficiaries receive that much and that much money, they will not be for any other purpose. But such work, of course, is not the work of a wise and responsible policy. It is wise and responsible for the government to agree with the beneficiary association and try to find some compromise as long as this association is prepared to do so. This is still, Mr Minister, given what the association writes in this letter, it is possible to agree and thus not cause any conflict of interest or conflict in this country. In the countryside, people in the past either paid from the development of telephones, to the development of schools, kindergartens, roads, municipal and other infrastructures, water pipelines, funeral cords, and I don't know what else. For each of these goods, they actually had to cut into their own pockets and earn it with their own resources. I have information that in the area of Haloz, which is in a demographic sense, I am sure that in Slovenia as a whole are among the least developed and also the most demographically threatened areas, that some individuals have also paid close to 12,000 German brands to reach the phone. So it is not fair from the State that today, when this system, which is estimated to be extremely large and quite valuable to own it in such a way that, in fact, these people will lose what they have invested in the development of the telephone. This is simply not fair, Mr Minister, as a representative of the government. No one would be interested in and bid for these funds if it were not for ownership today. When we discussed the insurance law, we were able to read there, and no one denied that since 1997 the level of awards for the administration and management of insurance companies has been higher than the sums for dividends. People understand and imagine that there's probably something similar in Telekom. We would like to know if these people will not get those funds back, who will actually become the owner in addition to the country and who will actually recover in this transition and who will become rich. People just don't believe it, and they want this part, as the preface said, without interest, without revalorisation, without what they invested in their work, to be repaid. So they only compete for what they actually invested and just under contracts that some have concluded over 20 years ago, they can actually prove. Look, this is a rural problem. In this national assembly, we have often talked about differences in regional development, and this country must do its utmost to reduce these regional differences in some way. The return of these calls for the development of telephony may also be a contribution in this direction to reducing these regional development differences, rather than increasing them in such a way and in a different way. Once again, Mr Minister, I appeal to you and, of course, to the ruling coalition in this National Assembly to try to listen to these arguments and to accept the amendment, it is said that the most important part of the law is the amount of the funds recovered. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The execution of Mr. Sok caused a replica. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. When I listen to this discussion - I will not support the law myself, I must keep on saying. Why? So no, because the fact is, they paid something back then that cost so much. That's a fact. Just like the fact that the first mobile phones cost 14,000 marks, and now I'm asking you whether these people will be able to make a difference to the normal price that is now in force. I'm asking you if we're going to pay back to everyone we've been pooling together at the time, as we said, the funds for, for example, the SIS for aviation, for maritime, for railways, for all this stuff. After all, we can also come to return to those who built roads, roads, and so on. They can organize, too. I'm looking at it primarily like a pebble in a beach that's about to go off. Now let's move on because someone threatened the referendum. Please! It's not at all how much someone invested in such a case when he invested because he wanted to have it sooner than it would have been. I think it is necessary to look at those who, by contract, have so agreed, invested more than it was, and they have also shown this. Sam, I'm gonna say, that's the way to agree to some blackmail policy, I don't intend to. You have to realize that there is no money, there is no money in the budget, and I'm nervous that everyone who remembers is treating this country like some dairy cow that needs to be squeezed. Always be aware when you talk about these things and when generosity falls to this point, you lose your sense that this country is also charged with over 500 billion tolars. If you take into account the interest that would have been attributed, and if you take into account the average proceeds of these lawsuits, each person will have a headache as to who else will pay for it. So I think and kindly please, I appeal for common sense, as it is written in our book, we pray for common sense, on one of the monuments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok wants to replicate Mr. Lavrinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u12	Besides, I don't know what this appeal to common sense means. That's what everyone can imagine. I can only replicate back to you, Mr Lavrinc, so you don't understand the gravity of the problem. And I can imagine, of course, when you explicitly say, "I will not vote for this law." Of course, not because you probably didn't put anything into this. And I'd like to hear what I said earlier, who invested thousands of stamps in this system and then built this system. This is about the ownership of the network, not the ownership of the apparatus. Of course, the price of appliances is decreasing. If you gave so much and so much money for your cell phone at the time, this cell phone was the same in the whole country, while this phone was different. So much in the countryside and the other way around. And of course, this thing is not comparable, it can't be comparable. You can't compare schools and roads to that either. Nobody's talking about us owning primary schools and roads. But here we are talking about a completely different situation today. Yesterday it was said, obviously you weren't here in Parliament, because they couldn't have been capital injections at the time, because no one had predicted and thought that the socialist system would ever change. People kind of fell for it, and they just helped build it with their own resources. Today, when this matter is fundamentally changing, it is, of course, right and fair to return to them from this particular part. Once again, I say that the proposal of the beneficiaries is extremely correct and should be listened to.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinc, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u14	Very short. The stone has a contract, so there'll be no mistake. I was also there when these things were done in the villages in Tuhinj and so on. I totally understand what this is about. But I'll tell you something. If they wanted something, anyone, like Kamnik, if he wanted to have high school, he did it. It was a self-contribution and we made it. If not, we'd wait so long. If they wanted to have a phone, they took the job themselves, bought something with government funds, something with municipal funds, gave something to PTSD, and so on and so on and so on, and they arranged these things themselves. Otherwise, of course, we would have waited so long. I gave that comparison so that at the time this thing cost so much more. If we follow this logic, that we will return everything that they have invested anywhere, then I'll tell you that mostly roads, municipal infrastructure and these things are done in a similar way everywhere. If we wanted to have this earlier, I'll tell you a model, 25 percent of the local community, 25 percent of the congregation, and 50 percent of the country. That was the funding system. Now get back to that logic. One, that says only one part you will return to, to all the others who have come in the same way to some of the common goods you need, but I find it incorrect. Excuse me. If aid is to be given to undeveloped areas, if some more resources are needed for more fair regional development, then this must be done differently, not like this. Because that's the way I feel about a reptile that doesn't look like the end. That's all I wanted to tell you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u16	Just one sentence. Mr. Lavrinc doesn't want to understand that Telekom owns himself. No one talks about schools and roads to own them. So don't say that Telekom was built by everyone, because the data available, of course, say that these investors were about 140 thousand. I think you know that there are many more households in Slovenia than 140 000.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. And now for the debate. In order to refresh once again: Mr Pukšič, Mr Kelemina, Mr Jerovšek, Mr Trofenik and Mr Grošelj, so far I have written down. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u18	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Given that the debate is limited to 5 minutes, I will not go into the history of this law since 1997 and what has been going on around it, but such a law as is now being submitted to the National Assembly and the amendments that we have proposed to the Social Democrats and New Slovenia would hardly satisfy what is needed. The facts are as follows. The eyewitnesses we have heard today in replicas that need to be returned and what needs to be returned are unjustifiable. It's not about returning. It is simply property, and in this case it is an evaluation of the ownership of those who helped build this network. In the case of insurance companies with other structures, not only was their deposit recognised, but it was paid in depth and paid in return. The law does not provide for any interest, no expected profits and no revalorisation, but only these fixed assets that have been invested. Given that these beneficiaries have been well organised into this All-Slovenian association, and given that - I do not know if you have this information - that they have received support from the community association, received support from the community community, that is, from all 192 municipalities organised in the association or in the community, and that they have been negotiating and talking to government representatives in recent days, including the President of the National Assembly, who has limited opportunities in this regard, but representatives of the government have not received any answers, not in electronic form or otherwise, it is simply unreasonable that such a bad law without adopted amendments would go through and that it would not leave any consequences behind. Far from anyone threatening anyone with a referendum and then talking about how much it costs and so on. That's not what this is about. It is simply information, which, I think, is the right that Members of the National Assembly have, and in such a case it will not be possible to report to the association of beneficiaries for causing some costs to the State, but, of course, to those who stubbornly insist on the law in question. This has already proved to be on another occasion of the referendum when the majority will of the Slovenian people was completely different, as was the majority parliamentary will to decide on the law. That is why I think it is perfectly logical and the only smart thing from the MPs of the National Assembly to bring the proposed amendments into line with the law is to say as festive as possible. In the end, that is all there is to say. You know, this network was built by people who rented loans, people mostly with the lowest income, people in geographically endangered areas. They gave up their vacations and many others. Others could afford these net incomes for any other good and have been paid in decades, of course not. They are therefore entitled to at least get what they have invested back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Before I give my word to Mr. Kelemini, I'm asking you very nicely. There's a limited debate for five minutes. There was also an agreement somewhere that the clock indicator allows us to try to complete the thought for up to 5 minutes. At a time when we start stretching this out and allowing someone to finish the thought, many can also conclude it substantially more than a few seconds, so I really ask that we limit ourselves here so that we can be right to each other. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Dear Vice President. I will take your position into account and I will try to save you the excess of Pukšič's minutes and also your seconds that you have spent in this debate or for warnings. Those who understand the weight of this issue and the responsibility ahead of us will, of course, try with some real proposals to provide solutions that will be acceptable to all. I would then then ask the respected government, or representatives of the government, the minister and the assistants, whether they are aware of the gravity of this issue that is ahead of us, whether they are aware of the power that I also recognize, on the basis of our support, the Social Democratic Party and also the New Slovenia, the beneficiaries show against the government in defending their interests or also in the final achievement of their interests. I am in favour of finding a real compromise that is acceptable both to the government and to the beneficiaries. I'm sure. But I ask you now whether you can explain whether you are aware of the power of this association. This association is organized as it must be. Of course, we will contribute to making it more organised if necessary. It includes over 140,000 beneficiaries and has some political power. I hope that you are aware of it and that there will be no unnecessary complications further and so on, that we are really trying during today's debate or today, or that you have already thought about finding a better compromise than you have proposed, and that you are trying to improve the matter a little bit. I am aware of all these problems that the government, coalition and so on are pointing to, but unfortunately, not because of myself, because I was also an accomplice, I can forget this a hundred times, no problem. I probably won't get it back either, because I don't have any documents, just by the way, I don't work for myself, I don't work for myself. I'm afraid I don't have a document. I threw it all away. I've invested about 2,000 euros in this project, maybe even more. I don't know. I'm talking in euros because I'm used to them. I just want your explanation of whether you are aware of the gravity of this problem and whether it is possible to find some real solution that will help us not to complicate things even more and that we are really trying to satisfy all the interests involved here. Only so much if you can answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Kelemin, for the sake of correctness, I advise you to read the transcripts of the infrastructure committee from the previous term, so that you will know and understand how the problem of returning to the National Assembly has come and to inform you that some of us - here are living witnesses - have dealt with the issue of returning the telephone in 1993 when adopting the Economic Services Act, which is the main reason for this, there are also living witnesses with the then last director of the Single Company, Mr Grill. In order not to overly politicise, they especially credited themselves, because this is harmful to solving the problem and I will say another in the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kelmina, then Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u24	Just for a little while. Dear colleague, Mr. Trophynik. If you have any credit in this regard, I congratulate you and do not deny them. But at the moment, maybe you are, and I'm getting myself involved in this project, and I want things to be properly resolved. Maybe I haven't been so involved in the past. And today I am. If you have the credit, I can only thank you for them. Or not me personally, but maybe the voters who will reward you with this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. First the replica of Mr. Sok, then Mr. Trophynik. Mr. Sok, please. Excuse me, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u26	It's not even a replica. Only Mr. Trophynik would [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u27	If it's not a replica, it's got a head start on you. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u28	Then it'll be like a replica. [[...]] In view of how this story began, Mr Trofenika would only add to the fact that in March 1993 the then Minister of Transport Igor Umek in Ormož at the round table explained that these funds would return when Telekom owned them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Trophynik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u30	Now, without wanting to, both replicas. Don't fool the public. Over the head of the company, Mr Grill, because of his principled position to issue a credit to the investors to come to the stake in the ownership of Telekom, it happened that he was relieved without speaking to Minister Umek of that time, under the authority of the minister you listed. Mr. Kelemina or my colleague, this is no service, far from it, I don't care. I did not contribute, I organised in the middle, which in 1980 was fully digitised, unlike Slovenia. This isn't about credit at all. The problem is, he wants to have too much credit for it. And it hurts and it politicizes too much. Therefore, there are two banks in this national assembly and they have been in the previous period, which does not lead to a quality solution. That's all it's about. It's not about credit.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u32	Just for a little while. Thank you very much. That's all I want to explain. I, if you have listened, have said very well earlier that it is in my personal interest as a Member, who is responsible for making some right decision, to make some real compromise that will be acceptable to all. That's what I'm talking about. I did not say - I can now demand, populist or whatever, that the threefold value of what they have invested be returned. I mean, I can exaggerate if you want to, but I specifically pointed out that I don't want this to be corrected, that I want to behave responsibly, and that I am asking the government whether they have thought that maybe to counter any negative consequences that might arise from this, they would consider whether it would be possible to accept a slightly better compromise than they have proposed. That's all I asked and nothing else. Then how will I decide what the proposal will be, and I will not discuss it now. Just so much to explain, no one would think I was overreacting or running an ideology or anything. No, I don't want that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We're done with the replicas. Mr Jerovšek has the next debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The adoption of this law through many years of efforts, as well as at today's session, shows how difficult it is to enforce the legal and legitimate rights of our citizens who do not come from the top of a social scale that does not belong to the cream of this society. They don't really understand. I would expect that, on the basis of the fact that we adopted a law last January, which stipulates in Article 158 that within six months a law will be adopted to regulate this matter, which is also committed to by Mr Minister or Government, that there will be a present effort to adopt as soon as possible, through the law, and to try to restore these legitimate, legal entitlements in some way. Today, we have heard the strong word of a member of the ruling coalition, from the largest party, "the law that my minister, from my party, brings to Parliament, will not support". Even though he's already committed himself to it through the minister. Gentlemen, if you have made a decision that under no circumstances will you confess anything to the people at the bottom of the social ladder and return nothing to them, then say clearly and loudly on behalf of the sent groups. Apparently, words of deception were uttered here last year. The deadline was raised for misleading marriage proposals, for which the majority of governments do not feel committed. If there was political will in this country, this share would be reimbursed to people at the bottom of the social ladder. These people do not demand interest, do not demand revalorisation, do not require expected income, but all that is expected and enforced by those who are at the top of the social scale who are in the right parties and so on. Think, for what reasons, the Minister would probably have come from the same party if these 12,000 marks, as was said at the time, had been filed by some such beneficiaries by an insurance company's administration at the time and their legal interest over the years would have been protected by a secretary of state or by a patrician secretary at the Ministry of Finance. And she'd write the law. Then I'm sure those beneficiaries would be demanding 70% of Telekom today. Here we would croak and tremble about how to slip away or how to enforce their entitlements in an elegant way. Fellow Members! I don't think such a law is a thing to be mocked by, as I hear here the sarcastic remarks from the parliamentary benches. He expects a clear word: Are we moving forward with this law? In the field, I'll tell you that people realize that they've been investing money, hard-earned money, that we can't meet them, to attend the public tribunals that people set up in the field. And they're wooding these public stands. I'm telling you, politically, we can actually be satisfied with your behavior. On one occasion, in a form or another, these things will come back in some way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Trophynik has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Let me first express my dissatisfaction on the one hand over the work of the quality of the law, as well as the discussion. Instead of taking the matter seriously and in the most professional way possible, the matter is now quite politicised. What the speaker said is, unfortunately, that this issue serves as an incentive for the organisation of political and other tribunals, for the collection of political points and other points, rather than for the resolution of problems. First of all, I have to say because I read yesterday's transcript that I am very disappointed in that part of the government's opening statement, which speaks of the clause, contracts, profitability or non-profitability of the company. And I am really sorry that colleague Gerencher, as one of the directors of PTT companies, who was among the first three companies in Slovenia at the time on the scale of the stake, could explain that the telephone was always profitable, that the postal part was always deficient and that it was always coming all the way since it was a united company, until the profits were shed to cover the costs of postal transport. This also proves later the payment of the new Telekom Post in a few billion, which exceeded if I have the right information, the three-year profit of Telekom. Therefore, it is unworthy of such arguments to defend one or another position. I also find it unworthy or unacceptable to talk in some way about the decline of Telekom's value currently on the market, because we are not talking about selling or evaluating Slovenian Telekom, but it is a matter of law of returning to infrastructure. Of course, it is necessary to go back to 1993, to the previously cited Law on Economic Public Services, which should be the basis for discussion, in particular its 76th Article, which I think has never been fully realized. The second is when some unfortunately throw everything into the same basket, roads, plumbing and schools. This is such and different infrastructure in accordance with the law. The telephone network was also maintained or defamed by water, road and other infrastructure, while the telephone network was transferred to Telekom as a state. And there is a fundamental substantive difference, or essential substantive reason. The fact is that this is part of the infrastructure and I personally do not meet those criteria of 20, 25, 40%, which on some quasi-amortisation or non-amortisation of the basic assets of the elephant. If we know that the central depreciation period is five years, 15-year cables, then I'll ask you what a mixed degree of amortization it's on. I think it's still an acceptable proportion for someone to be willing to return, but this criteria are not corrected. If we came properly from a submarital act that says what utility equipment is and what could be the cost of utility equipment. This country has this, this government has this document. He signed it, a little ironicly, the same minister who's in charge now. Then these criteria could be significantly different and better developed and identified and not so politicised a discussion. Now it's a mere bid made by the government: 20 or 40. Association 80 or 100. And this does not lead to any quality solution, because any percentage between 0 and 100 in this national assembly can happen in a responsible or irresponsible manner. What would make sense is I'll explain it because time is running out, when I'm going to explain my own amendment, which I've been trying to get to some other professionally acceptable criteria. And so that no one can tell me, I stand for a return because there has been a telephone service under different conditions, but not to go with a balance sheet, which is what this law makes as a proposal. Whether someone invested in primary facilities, centres, inter-terranean waters or invested exclusively in a local network that has exclusive status of municipal land equipment, as this has also been taken into account. The breakdown of the SIS contribution, the accession, is also not properly worked out in the law, because these were two different contributions, for two different matters. The SIS contribution was for the so-called extended reproduction and the connection cost of the metering connection in the already built area. I'll use the replicas and the amendment to continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Grošelj has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u38	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear colleagues and colleagues. First of all, I must apologize for my debate, because I would also like to see you objecting to some of my statements, and I am now saying that I will not try to persuade you again. Since I am not a member of the Committee on the Economy, I am accustomed to trying to raise my views on the working body where I work. Well, given the debate that has already taken place today, I think I have some questions to answer. In opening, I must say that I fully accept the views expressed by Mr Lavrinc. It is evident that the Mayor of Kamnik was also the mayor of Kamnik and that he is, of course, very well reminded of how we had different approaches to ensuring this appropriate standard in the field of telecommunications as well. Although it is true that, according to the words spoken by Mr Jerovsk, I, too, am from that bottom of the social ladder in the congregation of Hrastnik, because I am not a Hrastnik, but I have lived for 16 years, but after 16 years I was not employed in the congregation of Hrastnik, I was elected president of the executive council. And from the bottom of this social scale, when we had 13 phones per 100 inhabitants at the time, of course, after that time, where I have also come to 55 phones per 100 inhabitants now, also the third term. I mentioned this because there were different approaches. Just as here and also at the meeting of the Committee, the question was raised as to what criteria and also what honesty should not be finally determined that there will be some honesty of return, that we will not at the same time open up new inconsistencies and, of course, new complications and, of course, problems. We forget that in the municipalities we had self-government communities of interest, that funds were also collected here from a special level of contribution. I am therefore firmly convinced that for no project that worked on, in individual municipalities and in the local community, that one part of the funds was also provided from this source. You also got some of the resources from different approaches. We, too, reached the necessary funding through the Secretariat, which was called for defence, and there were also various other sources that are not currently recorded anywhere. In the debate itself, the question now arises, even if there are no records, if there are no contracts and so on, whether they are justified or not. I don't think this can be because, lastly, twice or three times then we'll be paying for the same things, it's said for the same purposes, but at the same time we're forgetting that we'll then be able to approach other areas. Then we'll start asking questions, although you're saying no, even for the village plumbing. We have contributed not least to various mountain homes. Or at the end of the day, we will be the one in the local community who is the Housing Relations Act, which was adopted on October 31st, after which everyone has had the right to redeem the apartment by 23 October 1993 for the price that has been fixed and they have to give it back, of course we will now set up an association and put this claim before the country that it is necessary to do so and to repay it. At the time, and at those moments, that was the system. Such a system has sought to satisfy the needs and wishes of our countrymen or citizens. And now after so many years of making demands for which documentation does not exist - I will be very careful to use the right word - I would say, is unfair. And don't work out of these problems by turning these problems into political issues, into political confrontations, which some are trying to do. Maybe that's because we're ahead of local elections. There will also be local elections in our congregation, and I will probably run for office, and I will tell our voters as much as I am in the National Assembly today: I cannot, does not allow me conscience, does not allow me to know how to solve these problems in the past, in no way can I, and my soul and heart do not allow me to vote for such a way of returning, regardless of whether it comes from the ownership of telecommunications, of course it comes from social resources and budget resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u40	So, Mr Grošelj, if mountain houses are to be owned, but if the pipelines are to be owned - it has been said earlier, they have been transferred, "convicted", but transferred to another situation - but if they are to be privately owned, as is the case with our common assets, from insurance companies, I don't know, to Telekom now, yes, then it is right to divide the property or property as it was created. And if you don't understand that this is fair and fair, then you don't understand it. And you say, "That was the system back then." Of course, in 1945 the system was a system that took people's property, and today we have to return it after the denationalisation process. We can't tell people, it was the system that did it, and it's the right thing to do. If that's why people are going to elect you, thank God you're elected. Well, if they are, I don't know if they will. These are the amounts written on contracts that people made with local communities most of the time. No one says that these are some of the contributions made by the State and so on. In fact, Telekom is 67% owned by the state. So it's those amounts that people have written down on their documents. And it doesn't matter whether they contributed to the central or the platoon. People in Haloza don't care. He's the only one who knows he gave the 11,700 mark. How they shared this in PTSD or in the post office at the time - something at the center, something at that, but it's basically for these people anyway, or I'm just misrepresenting these things. [[..]] What matters to him is that he has given so much and now this property that he has created to degrade, degrade, or privatize it in the way that it was made. Everything else, of course, is unfair in our belief.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Two more replicas before I give my word to the Minister. First, Mr Pukšič and then Mr Lavrinc. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I promise I won't go overboard unless, of course, I'm interrupted in the middle, just like I was before, and I've only taken advantage of those five minutes of my time, interrupted by my colleagues in the National Assembly. There's only so much to explain. Mr. Groschel! Yes, the executive councils acted by some other logic. The logic of social justice, the logic of Article 2 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, was created by executive councils when they spoke of the rule of law. Perhaps some other logic of the moral debt of the Slovenian country to all people. That's the minimum that this amendment law actually brings. Without amendments, none of these arguments apply. 67% share of the ownership of the country. Mr Grošelj, this is not about unfair giving to someone, but it is about locating one piece of property owned by the state. These citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are citizens of this country. That means only one small part will get his title in this case, he will get his name and last name. Of course, it could and would be wiser if this property were in the form of shares, but there is a government and, of course, the minister now has other problems. They're afraid they might not get the investors too much in this way. A completely different picture would be if there were not 160,000 Slovenian households and so many individuals, because the household as such invested in this, i.e. the whole family, which, of course, was able to provide and work for money. A completely different debate would also be heard from your mouth if it cost only 16 people, who would not then talk about returning what they have invested, but would also talk about interest, about expected profits and so on. That this has not been resolved in the previous term is, of course, a responsibility and that the law has fallen to the constitutional court, the ruling coalition. At the time, the relationship in the coalition was slightly different -- I'll say -- unfortunately, for one, there was always a shortage of those who favored this solution. Today, this relationship is significantly worse than that that solution is unfavorable. Of course, with such debates, unfortunately, we all politicise the matter together, which is not good. It would be fair for those people who gave it, not to return it, to become owners of it, and that's all. It is a simple story, "like beans" and nothing is given from the budget. Nothing is taken anywhere, but a titler of property is appointed. In this case, however, it is indeed those at the bottom of the social ladder. In general, there was no infrastructure built there, building on the net personal income of these citizens. The sidewalks in urban settlements, streets and roads - of course different. The bonds, and so on - are not yet paid today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lavrinc. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u44	I'll be very brief. I ask you, Mr Sok and, of course, others, the following. How are you going to guarantee me the return of my stakes that we collected, because we were then pooling money, for example for housing and so on, for example, for this segment, because I was investing in building apartments. The apartments, as we know, have been sold. I want to know how you're gonna get that back. That's the first question. And secondly, how are you gonna give me back that part of my assets that are in Luka Koper at the airport -- what's owned. I'm curious. So, I'm going to say one more thing: I'm not proud of this law that you mentioned more than once. It's a denationalization law. Especially because it does not allow a just return, but it has caused new injustices, I will even say new injustices by saying that the beneficiaries who get back are getting a different degree of success. Indeed, no Parliament can be proud of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. If you don't mind, I'd answer that, even though you haven't mentioned me in particular. I think it would be very understandable at this point to ask your colleagues who owned it. And from our client from N. Si-a no one owns this and we can't give you anything back. That's a fact. But it is true that for some things that they owned for the past few years, there was no interest, nor did anyone come forward to give it back to him. If you had a campaign then and so on or someone had promised to return it to you, you would have shown some interest and perhaps this would have been taken into account, but that is not the case. We can't throw all the cases into the same basket, and I think you understand these things. At the moment such a situation is emerging, and I think that the one we are advocating now needs to be dealt with on the basis of all the activities that have taken place so far, and we will try to resolve it. Now, if you cooperate, you will if you don't, and you won't. That's my opinion. I'm sorry, no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Kebrich also took part in the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u48	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice-President, ministers with co-workers and colleagues! I don't want to repeat anything I've listened to carefully, but I have a certain personal opinion, and I will express this opinion. I advocate that we get and should get those who have more invested in getting an early phone than they would get on the normal route. The other thing is that I have reliable data that those who entered into agreements with the local community have not always been the amounts that Telekom demanded for someone to be connected to, but that certain local communities in the interest of their citizens have still benefited from, and from, what was more than what they had done under the Telekom contract, something else useful for their citizens. Personally, I find it very difficult to set some fair amounts to be repaid to someone. Therefore, we will certainly need Members and Members to consider where the right limit is to be satisfied at least to the extent that it belongs to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sušnik, then has the floor, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much. With all due respect to Mr Kebric, see what you have just said are serious and difficult accusations concerning all representatives of local communities, local communities, directors' committees, which led the construction of telephones during the 1970s, 1980s and 1990s. That's why I'm calling you here because you said you had information to say exactly, clearly and loudly, if you know, in case the funds collected were used for the purpose of building or acquiring a telephone connection for any other purpose. Because otherwise, your statements cast a bad light and put in a strange position all those who worked hard and worked hard and earned money for people to come to telephone connections. It's simply that, once again, I emphasize that you've got it all in one basket, and you've done wrong, put it in a strange position, in a strange light of that -- allowing the possibility that also happened what you said. In the case of the implementation of this law, and when this law is implemented, such matters will be clarified and people who have possibly been involved in such procedures will probably have to answer. I agree with that. However, it is by no means permissible to characterize in general all that they have acted in the sense of your implementation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Two more replicas. First Mr. Trophynik, then Mr. Kebrich. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. I apologize to my colleague Kebrich for using this as a replica of his performance. On a matter that was domesticated, she settled in discussions, but it is not real, and it is not credible. The reason that some say that people were willing to pay for getting the phone first is simply not true. Or it could be a very, very small part of the truth. Those who are a little older should know what the system was like back then. The systems were built from the SIS contribution, which was paid at 15 per cent at the price of impulse by all those who had telephones. Here were built headquarters, terminal, node and inter-terranean waters and other components, because radio connections and similar things were also built. Of course, based on the SIS programme of the medium-term and annual. And of course, not all the places came into this program and they couldn't get the same conditions to get to the phone. So please do not use this as an argument that there is some unsettling desire, indeed there was competition between places and necessity in one period, but this was a need. The main problem is that citizens or stakeholders have not been able under the same conditions to obtain these goods. And that's what's causing the huge consequences. Part two. Again, I apologize for taking advantage of this opportunity, otherwise I cannot, Comrade Kebrich. You're talking about a fair or appropriate amount. The National Assembly cannot accept the amount. It can accept better or worse criteria that will lead to some amount, but on some professional basis, which cannot be an idea or this philosophy that is in here, forgive the applicants, about amortisation or non-amortisation, because it is criminally and professionally unchangeable, there must be something else that applies in this country to similar situations. For the infrastructure area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u53	Thank you very much. And a replica, Mr. Kebrich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. The last words of Comrade Trofenika are very timely and understandable. And they only confirm what I have suggested, how difficult it is to achieve or say what is the right measure. I agree with him that this can only be the basis, one criterion that will apply to everyone. I'm reciting it to you. I think you've deliberately misunderstood me, because you've finally confirmed what I said was right, that I know about some cases, and I don't throw any local communities or those who have concluded with local communities into the same basket. If you want, I'll deliver it to you in writing. It's a fact, and I have evidence, because I've been told by credible people that this was the case. How many were there - I don't know, but there were some of them, and from this I held my own debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! I have a few questions to answer, some comments to make, most of them of course incorrect, I will not comment precisely on the interpretation of the law. In doing so, I will try, at the best of my will, to avoid the valuable judgments that have been widely discussed, and hopefully also that I will not cause a large number of replicas, or also. But there are some things that need to be said. Of course, I will first have to comment on yesterday's debate and, of course, on a few things today. Mr Sok started with a thought that has also found an echo in the media, so it has to be commented on and is the starting point of all our differences and misunderstandings. From here on, I would say, we are separated; from the starting point forward, so that everyone must also know, all the other Members and Members and finally the Slovenian public. Mr Sok says, of course, that this law is a major fraud, that those who have contributed will not receive anything in the privatisation process, so to speak, property will come into the hands of others and so on. And that is why, in fact, the real reason, if I understand you, is to return to those who have invested in it, as you say. Now, here's what I think is really a big misunderstanding or something. From the point of view of state property, the privatisation of Telekom will be no more and no less than the replacement of one form of state, public, our, yours, from all citizens and citizens of Slovenia of the assets that are in the shares of Telekom, into another form of also public, state property, for example, into the financial resources that will go into the budget. This is a very specific part of the budget; in that part of the budget that will reduce this public debt. And where public debt will be reduced, the burden of the budget will be lower and therefore the benefits will be greater for all citizens, including you, us and all citizens. We don't give anything for free, nobody gets anything for free. We will, of course, sell Telekom at the right price, so we don't sell it here either, because it's not the right price - part of Telekom. Part of Telekom will always remain - at least in my opinion it must remain in public ownership, at least 25% plus 1, at least for a while, i.e. quite a good part of the time, in my opinion. Well, we won't share anything for free. Paradoxically, ladies and gentlemen, we will be "free" in quotations, as you used this term, for free, we will give something right with this law, right with this law to return investments. Otherwise, we're not giving anyone anything for free. On the contrary, Telekom will try to sell expensively, part of Telekom. So here this logic from which you come - the complete and fundamental difference between us in that those who have invested will not transfer these inputs free of charge to some owners. On the contrary! This becomes public property, either in one way or another, and this is the starting point wrong. Come in. I cannot fully agree with you here, but not with Mr Trofenik, who says: for local infrastructure it is quite different, because it has not been transferred to municipal companies. The truth is, it is never possible that even "de facto" has been excluded from utilities; some utilities are still running this. And secondly, they already run today, you have some services in the area of municipal, especially in the field of waste management, partly or even fully privatised, especially in Styria, and most of them are very successful companies, so waste management is there, I would say, at a slightly higher level. And how you negotiate there - part of the infrastructure is municipal, on this tube or on this is built some business with private money and some. A lot of mayors will be able to face it if you think like that in a month with a legitimate request to return their investment in this infrastructure. I have to say, this idea isn't so far away if you're thinking decisively on this line. And, of course, it has been obvious to us that we are referring to the fact that he did not provide for return in the contracts - that is what Mr Sok said - so that we are somehow changing, as if we did not know what kind of system it was. That is why, as the first principle of this fairness, we have said that we must reach out to all the beneficiaries who have invested, not just those who have had a certain matter. There are no issues here, no problems, that's exactly what we wanted at the time and achieved what you told us. With regard to the listing of Telekom, Telekom’s stock on the stock exchange - the Supervisory Council never voted in favour of this in order to avoid misunderstandings, never voted in favour. However, I must stress, indeed, that I have to correct the wrong interpretation of Mr Sok concerning Article 4 of the Act; that is, how the means of return are calculated. Mr Sok stated that, for example, it is made of 5,000 DEM [[I'll use the old German stamps.]] For example, calculate 20%, which is, say, 1,000 mark, and from this is paid the connection and the possible connection to the SIS contribution. Of course not, the law states exactly the same, and says that an unpaid connection and any unpaid contributions are first calculated, and this sum is calculated. This is quite different, as you can imagine! And, of course, if this misunderstanding of the basic article is, of course, the criticism is so much stronger. It's not like that. It's not like that. Of course, I will not talk about the fact that the Constitutional Court has never been defined to the height and manner of return, but it has demanded that a statutory obligation be carried out and settled with the law - special or whatever. Around the depreciation of the network, its maintenance, this was said both by Sok and by others, and by Mr Trofenik. That's all I'd say. I will repeat the argument that was also on the committee: I lived in England for a while at the time - in the 1980s. And I have to say that every week, I was throwing away Telekom's mail and other operators who offered me this, that, third, fourth service, the upgrade of this, fourth, I don't know, offered me: candy, chocolate bears - if I take one thing. Why wasn't that with us? Why didn't we have that? Why wasn't that with us? We didn't even formally admit profits. We've confessed - just, what is it? I don't know what and we didn't have it. In fact, there's a lot of telephony, a lot of development that wasn't in it. And they were not financed by subscribers of individual phones, but by businesses; by pooling funds and so forth in the so-called so-called self-government organizations of the joint labour. We all know that. And in fact, if we go with today's language, we can't actually use our terminology on the current situation. The fact is, the subscription and the impulse have been low, far too low and we have only recently tried to get it to as much cost as possible. That can't be denied. There were allegations that we were playing beneficiaries. From the first day I took over and started dealing with this problem, I never claimed that we would return everything or that we would return anything more than what was written in this law. You can tell us that we have a different attitude than you. But you can't tell us, not me, not my coworkers, and not the client I belong to, that we've been dishonest. We never promised this return. We never defended him. We even studied laws that would do this in a non-discriminatory way - in some strange way. And we made this public: before the elections and after the elections. I said that in the Trojans, I said that at meetings with the representatives of the association, where we came together about everything except the amount of return. And I also said on public radio shows and elsewhere. So playing here is out of the question. We have been up to what we think about returns, how much to pay back, in our view, we have been extremely honest and always very clear. We must also deny, unfortunately, the high profits of Telekom. I'd be very happy if they were 10 billion for last year. I'm afraid that's not gonna happen. We're expecting about 5 billion. There are exceptional investment needs in this sector. Which is hard, which is just to understand. In the MTS alone, according to media reports, this order will require an investment of 150 billion tolars. And the profits, with Telekom's profits, are like other profits in the world. The bright future is around the corner. There's still a lot to invest now. I agree mainly with the introductory implementations that Mr Kelemina had yesterday when he spoke about local communities and these matters. I would have even sharpened that point that was said yesterday. Not only in the former, socialist Yugoslavia, but also in the royal and imperial Austro-Hungarian country, there are researchers of the Slovenian countryside and not only the rurals are clear and known that if people wanted something, they had to rely primarily on their own strength, solidarity, self-contribution. No wonder that self-contribution in Slovenia got so good because it had a historical and cultural tradition. What, if I may say, built and accumulated the previous generations would be a good starting point for the present and for the next generations. And what our generation will do, even in this way, will be an opportunity for future generations. That's why we're relatively developed. And if we turn this logic around, and as I said on the committee - in quotes, not literally, we understand each other - we cut and eat the cake, we will also waste opportunities for future generations, including on roads, also on sewerage, and also on other institutions, and we will especially affect those who come after us. Everyone contributed something in some way. I admit that some more, some less, and some also nothing; but much. If people wanted something, they had to have it. When you talk about social strata, we don't come back because we don't care about these layers. I'm going to say I'm not going to have anything and I can't have anything at insurance companies, but I'm an investor under this law, by the way, and by this law, which is, let's say. I think there's a lot of my colleagues from this party that I belong to, too. I'd say again, but here I would really argue with those who work too fast, if I may say, sociological conclusions, if the bottom of society doesn't get anything. We must be aware that even then the bottom of the company did not participate in this phone, mainly not. This phone was first received by those who had more, who had something more. The lowest didn't even think about the phone, of course, and they didn't come to the phone. Perhaps later, when something was improving, but certainly not in these first stages because they could not afford it because of high costs and so on. The bottom of society was right in that, it was discriminated twice, I'd say. This is what it should be called, and this is usually the case in most societies. Of course, this marriage has no pretension to bring it all back. It is also in fact, as I said, a certain recognition: for this effort, for something happened, that it had been built. I admit what was said: Without these efforts, we would not have a good network. But this network today, which is good and urgent, is not profitable, we have already said that. And it will be even less when wireless communication is even more present and so on. But it's important and necessary, and that's a fact. And if you want to return everything, it's a clear dilemma, or if you want "trade off": either to the future or to the back. And that this dilemma is answered by this law: more for the future, less for the future. This is a clear matter that we have said several times. In the letters, it was a direct question of what is going on with the centrals. If the headquarters are in the contract, Mr Tsukati, of course, they will be taken into account under this law. As far as the issue is concerned, are we aware of the strength of the beneficiaries of this association and of the fact that they have the support of SDS and New Slovenia. Of course, we are aware of this and I think that this is also an important power that is; but, every public policy, every government policy must be aware and must agree that sometimes it must also adopt laws, measures or projects that do not run, which are not willing to certain segments of the population that do not sunbathe, I would say, on the sunny sides of politics. Every minister must take measures with which no one is satisfied at times, and that is the most necessary measure. Thus, we are used to it, we are also used to swimming against the current, and perhaps some in Slovenia also appreciate it. That's what I ended up doing with my replicas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Four replicas, first Mr. Trophynik, then Mr. Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u58	I am forced, Mr Minister, to express amazement at some parts of your implementation; I hope you have been condemned. In the part where you have compared companies or legal persons involved in the implementation and ownership of economic public services and infrastructure which is in the sense of property or local or state. You've been talking specifically about companies that deal with garbage and stuff. Of course, it was possible to understand that you were betrothed. But if there is something else - and I hope it is not - you did not understand that private infrastructure is anywhere on the local level and that the local communities have somehow agreed to some private property. It's just not true, there's no such legislation, and so forth. Of course, it would be very distasteful if someone were to read certain things to someone in the National Assembly. However, I think it is imperative to read, both to the government and to all of us, and I will not do so, Article 76 of the Law on Economic Public Services, and I remind you of paragraph 1 and paragraph 4. The first paragraph says exactly what's local, what's national, and the fourth paragraph says what's not. And it's that reason or that fundamental original sin that we're dealing with here today. Why? Since the contribution of those who have gone to the telephone or legal or natural persons is not in the spirit of paragraph 1 of this Article which has been "obsessed" or maintained. The fourth paragraph clearly states that it is not. And where's the next reason? When the State supported this, partly unjustifiable, property or infrastructure at the expense of other investors, it did not invite these investors to make claims. We all know that the then government didn't do it. And the next step is that she carried this, this state property, publicly, on Telekom. It doesn't bother me. I don't get involved in Telekom's discussion about shares or anything. Although I argue that, if we did it then, 1993 or at least 1.1.1995, we could, in the same logic as with the insurance company - then, not today - go with the logic of the share of capital in this property. Of course, why it wasn't, we don't know. This will be answered by those who answer, and probably not by you because you were not responsible for the matter. Of course, amortization, once again, because you were talking about amortization. Please have a look, there is data, there is a phone, and there is always an accumulation activity. But the fact is that it was flowing - a single company at the time, PTT - the profit from telephony to the loss from the post office, according to homework. And if we don't want to know that today, of course it's another problem. This is a fact, and when I talked about profit - if you thought of me - I'm talking about the payout of Telekom Posta, which was about 14 billion, the average annual profits of Telekom - since when it's a company of its own - are also a series of sizes between 4 and 5 billion, different from what year. And I said this comparison. That's why I'm pleading for partial recovery under the professional criteria, because in 1993 and 1995, the country adopted something that it's not good at. However, it is not good at the part where these were abnormal contributions, although I do not agree with those who claim that all phones should be given the same conditions. That's just not true. And it is at odds with European practice, with legislation, and elsewhere. There are also restrictions where concessions are for economic public services. Whether the area is so large that costs are compensated in price and connection, or there are limits to which meters, if you want, can be obtained under such conditions by someone: either gas or water or by telephone or electricity. However, that must also be realized. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. First, three more replicas. First Mr Pukšič, Mr Kelemina and then Mr Sok. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, it is clear to me that you are the bearer of such a law as you are, because you, in the previous term, in that negotiating group, have worked very hard in the coalition to ensure that this special law, which would return it, does not come to pass until that time on the telecommunications law, when it was adopted. And of course, now you're in some awkward position, but when you actually had to do it, you're showing some kind of law in the National Assembly. You've done your best to make a law like this - like this - no one will get anything. That's clear. But I wanted to replicate to you the part where you talk about the fundamental difference. Yes, Minister. Yeah. We don't come together in a fundamental difference. But you're talking about, of course, that we can't, and it's not justified for those who gave something above average to give it back. See, the state company, the PTSD, the then PTSD and so on - what it was financed from. From the budget. So the Executive Council has adopted a decision and so on. In short, he was financed from taxes. What taxes? Those taxes that were paid by all and all citizens under some legislation. It was one source. The second source for which you thank that the network is so well built today was, of course, those who paid it only some. Only some of those regular duties, which are one way or another, we all paid - even for housing construction, etc. - they had to give more to build a telephone network in the countryside, of course. It is not true that people who had low or low personal incomes were not involved. Minister, they cooperated. I come from areas like this. I come from areas like this where we've been doing this. And Mr Minister, I know at least a few things, at least a dozen of them could count them, could only be from one small municipality, that they either rented a loan or even in those years when they signed such contracts and, of course, paid it off, they sold the cow out of the barn. Of course, that meant a lot to these people. A lot. But there was no other possibility. However, they were aware of developments, progress, in short, looking ahead. These people, Mr Minister, are 63% of whom owns the country, eligible for these five percent, and that's all we're talking about. We are actually talking about a small matter, but we are talking about a large number of investors. And I don't know why this has to be an issue if this part is to be dispersed. Of course, after such a proposal as this, they will receive some funds that they will be able to invest in something again. It would be more logical, of course, if we got the shares, as I said, that the matter would be transferred - so, this property to the citizens. And citizens always remain, that is to say, state citizens, as citizens of this country are state citizens. And think about the future or think or go on or on or on. You know, decades ago they've been thinking about you and, of course, they've been hiring credits and everything else, they've been thinking ahead, and even today, these people are thinking ahead, and they need to be built on, and according to this justice, if we're talking about it, it's necessary to do it minimally with these amendments that we've tabled and not politicized around it, but at least put it through this national assembly, and there will be some confidence, I'll say, the rest, not say that they owe you a greater share to cover public debt. Mr Minister, the Minister of Finance said that we have sound public finances, then I hope that there is no problem with public debt.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kelemina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I would like to comment briefly on the Minister's thoughts. Certainly, because the fact is that we have different views on this issue. You must, of course, defend the ownership of the state - although it seems a little suspicious to me that your knocking on your conscience, czech, will then transform if it remains in state ownership forward, into other municipal equipment, sewerage, plumbing and so on. Well, that's true, but, look, today the situation is a little different than it was in the previous country, and because of this property that happened, the expectations of individuals, especially those who do not know how much they participated or attached their pots, are also slightly different from those you are now explaining and defending; it doesn't matter. In fact, we are more developed today at the expense of all of this, you admitted, the difference is that some of these accounts may be rich or very rich, but some of them are not, and these things are a little different today. That's all I'd say, look, Mr. Secretary, I don't know if you've answered me correctly, but I'm not going to go into all the other things, because I think we need to speed things up a little bit so we don't stall. Or perhaps you have answered me correctly, but it seems to me not, as to whether any more favourable proposal on your part is possible, so that this can be better resolved and that we can conclude this matter. In the final stage - if you can say it now, if you can promise - or defend your strict position not to give up on what is proposed, then it is time for the State Assembly to decide what it will decide. On the basis of the decision of the National Assembly, then all the other processes will happen if they happen - because I think it almost makes no sense anymore. That's all I meant, because it seems to me that you haven't made it clear whether you're ready to let go or not or you're insisting on moving on because it doesn't make sense because we're not going to get to the end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Mr Minister will give you an answer after two more replicas, Mr Sok and Mr Sušnik still wish to replicate the implementation of the Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u64	Thank you very much. I expected, of course, and it is normal for the Minister of Government to reject all comments made by the opposition. This seems appropriate to me in the political plural system. What, though, follows when we adopt this law today? I don't know, Mr. Secretary, if we're gonna solve this problem today. I wonder what the next step will be. I didn't want to deceive you when I said that at the time, the beneficiaries had withdrawn the threat of collecting the signatures for the referendum, I didn't tell you that you were cheating, but then you agreed with the beneficiaries in some appropriate way that the government would adopt the ownership law within six months of the adoption of the Telecommunications Act, and that was enough then. Today this law is here and today your beneficiaries - it is not about making this work a policy, as some Members have said. It's just that the beneficiaries are willing to talk to you and negotiate with the government about the possible amount of the refund. But they don't seem to agree to what you offered them: 20% to 40%. If it's Article 4, I understand that you're interpreting it that way, but if it's like you said, then you should write it a little bit more clearly. As it is now written, Mr Minister, it is not clearly recorded. Read it as it says, and you will see that different interpretations can arise from this article. I don't know what changed so great in the positions of the governments, say, from Bajuk to Drnovškov's present. At the time of the government of Dr Andrej Bajuk, the government in the telecommunications law defined a different system of return. So then we took out those five articles of the law, but then the government actually agreed to delete the amounts they paid to the beneficiaries. And it really is not your claim that the lowest layers in the development of telephony invest. That's not true. That's what my buddy Puksic told you. I also know that farmers were selling their basics, it's called cattle from the stables, so they could come to the phone, so they didn't have to go to the train stations at night to call a doctor or a animal doctor or something. So it was that original desire in the countryside: to get to the phone and start communicating in a modern way. I wouldn't have let you connect other infrastructures, plumbing and Telekom. I am responsibly saying that there is no such problem as Telekom in this country right now and that I do not see any similar problem in the future. But it seems to me that our common future is very burdensome if we do not resolve some of the issues in the past properly. I could count them even more, but this definition: let's forget what happened yesterday, what's important is what's going to happen tomorrow - this, Mr Minister, is simply not going to hold up. He can't hold on. Especially in matters where investors are known. They're famous here. He knows exactly what amounts. There's supposed to be documentation. If it exists, I don't know. You, as minister, probably checked to see if it existed. However, I must tell you that I am finally beginning to understand why this part was actually excluded from the Ministry of Transport and Communications. Now that this problem is ahead of us, I am beginning to understand more and more why it was done in this way and I am just one of those Members that you, as Minister, cannot convince me with these arguments. You really can't convince me, but I don't know why they weren't capital injections, that there was depreciation and then there were losses. Look, talking about losses in a monopolistic company, I don't know if we can explain this to our colleagues in the European Union in the same way. We would probably ask you a lot of questions about that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sušnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, I would like to have a possible response to one of the concerns that arises to me regarding your claim and the statement that I fully agree that with the civil movement which the beneficiary association is, everything in the law has been practically agreed on, except for the return of the amount of the deposit. See, in the introduction, you wrote under the objectives and principles of the law that the purpose of the marriage proposal is to regulate the way back with the aim of equalizing the conditions for obtaining telephone connections, regardless of time and place. Regardless of the time and place, when and how this phone connection was acquired. Now, if we continue to link this up, there are also procedures in the law itself, who and how will draw up the scale and determine the average price of a telephone connection for a geographical area and for a time period. And I understand why there was a conflict between the association and the government as a bill-maker. In fact, when all of this is done, you then offer in Article 4 20 to 40 percent of what is actually overpaid. Here you have not submitted either in your marriage proposal or in your implementation and clearly stated why 20 to 40 percent of that real difference. Those differences that would achieve the purpose and principles of the law that you have written, and by which you would equalize the conditions for obtaining a telephone connection, as you beautifully and obediently wrote in the introduction of this law. Why only 20 to 40 percent? On the other hand, I'd like you to think about it and look at it. See what happens to privatisation or telephony development if this problem is not satisfactorily resolved. Since it is necessary to resolve it or that you, as the responsible minister for this area, have found that the matter needs to be resolved, this proposal, which you have brought before the national assembly, shows. Because if you did not see the need or need, you would not even be able to reach a relatively harsh marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Trofenik, the replica, will then be answered by Mr. Minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u68	Thank you. The replica is to my colleague Kelemini, so there will be no misunderstanding. According to the part where he asked the minister if he was ready, under the terms, to "negotiate." Once again, I say that this is the most dangerous and unquality approach. And it shows in this part the weakness of the law and the weakness of those on the opposite side who would like to bid the amount of the contribution. Is this the one that has so many emphasiss on righteousness - just seeming? No, I don't run into percentages, but I'm asking if it's fair that they get the same percentage of those who financed the interstate, central and local networks; others funded only the local network, and others financed the other combinations that are possible. This is true of inequality, not equality in percentages and content, because under all the professional and other criteria it is by no means permissible for central and inter-regional water to be financed. But there's still infrastructure. The weakness of this is exactly what has already come to the committee, and now I see that in Parliament there will also be a bid of a percentage between 0 and 100 instead of talking about the professional criteria, but the result would come by itself afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much. I would like to explain briefly to Mr Member, my colleague, that it may not be the most appropriate way to talk like this, but the fact is that the question is whether we will find a fair system in such a way as to make it the most fair - I doubt that. I will, of course, because your amendment, my fellow Member, is before the amendments of the other important amendments - I voted for you on the committee and I will vote for you now, if you think that I do not agree with your amendment. I agree. And if yours is accepted, I will be particularly pleased if it does not, but I will support some other amendments. That's all this is about. I didn't go down to the fact that your proposal was bad in any way. There's only so much to explain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. Even Mr. Minister in the general debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u72	On a few specific questions. Look, these negotiations, I will also probably satisfy, in this part alone, Mr Trofenik. That compromise is not possible. The differences between the governmental position and the position of the beneficiaries are too great and we cannot achieve this. But I'd like to point out something else. This law allows in this article - I think that the article dealing with settlement with the Ombudsman; yes, the last fifth paragraph of the proposal says that if someone is not satisfied with the calculated refund, within a period of two months after the expiry of this period, I think that the proceedings shall be brought before the competent district court and in a normal manner enforces its claim as it thinks it is. In this respect, I also answer to Mr Trofenik. That is all I have to say because it is right to say about this proposal by Mr Trofenik - his proposal would be very interesting in 1993 or even in 1995, I am sorry that I was not involved in these things at the time, but today it would mean almost a new denationalisation or privatisation, with long, complicated procedures and all possible matters. Those who want to do so still have this option under this law. But those who are willing to accept it would say that the settlement on this formula, which is in this law, is going to get this settlement, so it's going to go into it, and it's going to get paid off. So we don't close these paths. And that is my answer, even to a question, I would say, to this referendum or negotiation. So I'd just say that this thing is better solved than you think. I would also say what has been mentioned several times: whether there is documentation. There's documentation. Most of the documentation is provided by local communities and municipalities or by Telekom, who will be obliged to provide this documentation, even after that. So, Mr. Kelemina, if you don't have the tickets at home, they'll arrange for you to get those tickets from Telekom. So much for having to say something about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! I think that we have exhausted the speakers and speakers in this part and that I can conclude the general debate. We are therefore moving on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We are voting on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. I think that there are enough of us in the hall, substantially more than it has now pressed on one of the buttons, so I would like to ask you again for attention, because we are going to vote on the proposal for a second decision. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 43 votes against none. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of a review of the amendments of 15.5.2002. I shall put Article 2 and the two amendments to this Article into discussion and decision. Under number 1, the amendment of two parliamentary groups, SDS and New Slovenia is an amendment of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. Mr. Secretary, please, then, Mr. Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u74	The government opposes this, and the committee does not support it. In fact, this "add a legal person" would mean that the circle of beneficiaries would extend also to companies which are already owned. And that would also be a problem, because we should reopen the opening balances and so on. Thus this amendment, not only is it difficult to implement, makes no sense, so the government and the committee also oppose it. I would also point out in editorial terms that in cases where the government does not agree, I will explain this in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u75	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u76	Well, precisely because of the statement or the dilemma that arose in the committee’s consideration of this law, it is still not clear. We insist on this amendment because there are also legal persons in these areas who would be and must be entitled to these excessive investments. It is also an excessive deposit and we do not see any difference as to whether the telephone connection was acquired by a natural or legal person under discriminatory conditions. You are forgetting, Minister, that the period 1990-1995 is included in this. In this regard, I would also like to say that at the same time we are proposing to delete the deadline 1.1.1995 because it does not seem important to us to limit up or last date, but we do not feel that this is necessary to limit it to 1.1.1995, because we have information that some of the contracts have been concluded even after 1.1.1995, and in the second chapter, chapter two, the objectives and principles of the law, you write that this correction of the injustices has been enforced for a period since the entry into force of the Fundamental Relationships Act in 1974 until the entry into force of the Telecommunications Act in 1997. And that is why we have also proposed an amendment, as follows in the second article, and I ask for the support of this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u78	Yes, the Minister's explanation is that it's not just about companies. The Minister mentioned companies, of course there are a number of companies and other organisations that have regulated telephony as a legal entity. After all, it is also a matter of a number of municipal committees of political parties that have paid the same amounts in these times, I know, and therefore I know that they are not just companies involved here, so I propose that we accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u79	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision, first of all to an amendment under order number one to Article 2. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 18 votes against 45. [[The vote was 18.]] [[There were 45 votes against.]] I take it the amendment under one has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 5l voted against one. [[The vote was 5l.]] [[I'm against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 43 votes against 16. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 16.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 4 and on the five amendments to this article under review and the amendment of the Group of Members to Article 4 by the first-signed MEP. Janez Kramberger, who you have on the bench. He's not in the review, we'll decide on him under order number six. Under 1 in the review, the amendment of Ambassador William Trofenika, with a footnote, if adopted, the remaining amendments under 2, 3, 4 and 5 are irrelevant. Under 2 is the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party and of New Slovenia with the remark that it is linked to the amendment under point 5 and, if adopted, the next amendment under point 3 of which the proposer is a committee is irrelevant. Under 4 is the amendment of the committee and under 5 is the amendment of the SDS and New Slovenia parliamentary groups, which is linked to the amendment under point 2. And under 6 we will vote on the amendment of the Group of Members to Article 4. You have the text of this amendment on the bench. I am opening a debate on all these amendments and on the article. Mr. Trophynik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. I would like to try to explain the amendment under order number one. As I said earlier in the discussion, I am not satisfied with the criteria for determining the height or right to return investors. Therefore, I have tried to prepare a substantively justified criterion on the basis of the instructions for calculating the municipal contribution published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. 4 in 1999. What's this all about? Investments in telephone centres and inter-territorial telephone water are, in accordance with Article 10 of this Guideline, systems which belong to a complete primary system and are not subject to the utility of the building’s land. The local telephone network is the typical utility of the building plot according to its content. And since it is not possible to include the costs of systems or primary networks in the municipal contribution, I am taking the logic that, because of this, it is necessary for those who have invested in central and inter-level telephone lines to return the deposit in full, but of course to the local telephone network, or otherwise, to invest in municipal land equipment in a difference that - here I am following the idea of the law - between the actual average cost found, the deductions of two known contributions, but I am limiting this refund to the maximum amount of the current connection. Why? It doesn't make any sense that the cost of the land's utility equipment should be the same everywhere. It depends on dispersion and other specific local reasons, so this varies. The matter is substantive, very simple and correct and draws an analogy to the applicable sub-legislative act under which municipal contributions are currently being charged in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Look, there's something I'd like to say in support of the other amendment. We are practically proposing to put in place a new term, this is a contractual value, because it has also been somehow agreed and adopted in the third amendment, which receives support. However, the problem is that there is talk about the contractual value of the contract, but there are a large number of cases where investments, both in work and in material, have not been mentioned in the contracts. We are therefore convinced that this adjustment is necessary. That this correction of Article 4 is necessary if we are to achieve the business objective and purpose of the law. This, as we have heard many times today, is to equalize the conditions or, as far as possible, the conditions for obtaining a telephone connection, regardless of the time and location of these connections. There is no need to pay particular attention, even in the debate, to the fact that this was the case when individual directors bought cables past contractual values, past concluded contracts, when they were making enormous excavations or setting up whole lines of drugs for the establishment of inter-terrestrial or other links. The amendment number five we tabled. And this amendment is in the spirit of our view of this matter. We are convinced that it is possible to remedy injustice and to even the conditions for obtaining a telephone connection only in the case and then, if it fully recovers the real overpaid value, it is also a compromise, because we do not claim the return of some interest for too paid value or the treatment of this overpaid value as a capital injection. This is a compromise accepted by the association and which I think would satisfy most investors, which is why we have also tabled and I call on you to support the amendment under number 5. In fact, this is the whole deletion of the second paragraph, the whole deletion of that scale for which I have not, at least today, received one answer as to how you came to this scale, Mr Minister, or how the government came to this scale. I believe that this scale is the result of some kind of agreement, a political compromise that has been concluded that this issue is intended to be addressed by Telekom in the privatisation phase. We stress, however, that this is a minimum and that it does not satisfy the beneficiaries, even less so in accordance with the stated objectives and principles of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u84	Thank you for your word. So, of course, Article 4 is crucial in this law. So, depending on this article, I am almost certain whether the referendum will be on this issue or not. So, I've already warned about this yesterday and also today, and I've always tried to convince the Minister that he would still meet with the beneficiaries and try to agree on this letter that we all received from fax today. So the beneficiaries are still ready to talk about it. Because apparently there's no willingness on the government side, I believe that these amendments will be, three of them, on a similar subject. It is interesting that two amendments have been tabled on this subject by the Slovenian People's Party and amendment No. 5 by the Slovenian Coalition. As far as our Group is concerned, we will support Amendment No. 1, this is Mr Trophynik's amendment, and it seems to us that, as the Minister has said, this amendment in implementation is in practice somewhat complicated. So we'll back him up. We think that, then, at the third stage, the ministry can still make it a little simpler. Otherwise, we propose that you support amendment number 5, because in such a way alone, I say again, I believe that we can avoid unnecessary complications and conflicts of interest in this pressing issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The amendment that we tabled, the Group of Members, to Article 4, this amendment came from the proposal of the All-Slovenian Association of Beneficiaries for Returning Investments to the Telecommunications Network. I must say that these positions of association are also supported by both associations of congregations. I think it is the position that the All-Slovenian Association of Beneficiaries has made in this law that it is an important work they have done, but it is a shame that they have failed to meet more and more substantively with the drafter of the law. In fact, this amendment suggests that the beneficiary would be reimbursed in cash, calculated at 80% of the base. So, I propose and I ask that this amendment that he has received, I think the number 6 to support it. In fact, the proposed uniform rate of 80% of the base ensures that the conditions for the acquisition of telephone connections of all those who have invested excessively, regardless of time and location, and in some ways represents the distribution of this burden of depreciation in proportion to all connection owners, not only those that have invested only these additional investment funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u88	Thank you so much for saying that. It would not be possible for me to defend these amendments that we have proposed here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u89	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u90	Maybe I could just comment on this amendment that the mag has just explained. Kramberger. Dear colleague, I find this amendment a little odd if it's not a bit populism. Indeed, your colleague, Mr Willi Trophynik, has tabled an amendment which then excludes this amendment if it is adopted. And I don't know how you put so many different amendments into the same parliamentary group that are mutually exclusive. In short, I don't know if you meant it with this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Two replicas - just a moment to succeed in line - first came Mr Trofenik, then Mr Kramberger and then Mr Sušnik. Here you go, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u92	Thank you. I replicate both the speakers, both fellow Member Kramberger and Kelemini. First of all, Mr Kelemina, whether it is forbidden for a Member to table an amendment independently of the Group of Members, I would like a clear answer. I don't think, as far as I know the old rules, I don't know the new one. Secondly, it would be responsible, without any other difficulties, to replicate to my colleague Kramberger in the part where he again substantiates the equivalence of conditions, and I will illustrate that what the association advocates is not credible and is not an equalization of conditions. Expressions in such or different percentages cover a number of things. Let's see. In the same place, someone got a phone connection to pay only the cost of a local network because there was sufficient capacity in the centre. Then came others who didn't have this luck to make the power plant big enough, they had to pay the power plant first. Then came the third, who had no luck either at the headquarters or at the inter-terrestrial waters and had to pay for the increased capacity of the inter-terrestrial lines, the headquarters and the local network. And, please, don't tell me then about the equivalency of the terms expressed through the percentage. The percentages taught in the fourth or fifth classes are very dangerous to use in politics because they are commonly abused in politics.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mr Kramberger, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to tell my colleague Kelemini that this is not prohibited anywhere, that Members from one parliamentary group should not table various amendments; this is, of course, already mentioned by my colleague Trofenik. As far as this proposal is concerned, this is the proposal that I have taken after the said association. Otherwise, the proposer does not take a differentiated approach, so that somehow the association follows the intent of this law, which the proposer has. Personally, however, I think that the solution proposed by colleague Trofenik is much more elaborate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u96	It's not a replica, but it's just that on the basis of the secretary's warning, I'd like to change the contents of the forecast sentence at the fifth amendment. In fact, this forecast sentence is deleted because it is not necessary, and the amendment simply states that the second paragraph is deleted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Another replica, then Mr. Secretary. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u98	Unlike a bit more procedurally one question. In fact, I now understand that this is a backup scenario, if the first amendment of the People's Party was not adopted by accident, then it would be the second. No problem. It's perfectly correct, and then I realized that this could be the case. I just meant to ask you something else, procedurally. Are we now going to vote first on that amendment that advocates 100% investment, then about 80% and then 40% and so on, or what kind of order is it going to be, because it's very important? Given how these amendments were subsequently tabled, I am interested in what will be the order of voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Kelemina, if you have not paid attention at the outset, when I have already given this explanation, I would like to explain once again. As stated in the amendment review, from 1 to 5 in order and under order number 6, we are voting on the amendment of the group of Members with the first-signed Mr Janez Kramberger. Understand? Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u100	Of course, this is the most important article and something has already been said. I would warn Members and Members where the government disagrees. First, of course, the government does not agree with all amendments which in one way or another increase the share of the funds recovered or change the way. I mentioned earlier that we do not agree with Mr Trofenik's amendment. I think that would be extremely complicated. I would like to point out once again that this was possible, this could be discussed, but without a clear conclusion that we already know that the topic that would have been well-turned in 1993 was by 1995. Then it's kind of over. I'm sorry this didn't happen at the time. Today this is extremely difficult to do and the social and legal costs of this process would be very expensive and very high. Besides, like I said, I'm stressing again. If someone disagrees with the settlement on the formula proposed by the government or this law, he can sue to sue more if he thinks he is justified and so on. So this option is not completely prevented, as is others. Then, if we move forward, we reject the amendment under number 2, simply because the amendment under number 3 is better and is also summarised from New Slovenia, thus being combined with the second amendment to article 8 by contractual value and in combination with this and this amendment is a much better solution. So we reject amendment number two. It is clear that we are rejecting the amendment under number 5, this is an amendment where the second paragraph is deleted and therefore wishes to return everything, I will not repeat it, and - clearly - I regret that this amendment has taken place, but we also, of course, reject the amendment that came to the table, a group of Members with the first-signed mags. Kramberger, where 80% returns. We don't agree with that. We also believe that unfortunately - the coalition party has not proposed coordination in this law, although I have come to interpret this law, there has been no harmonisation proposed, and I therefore regret that such an amendment has been tabled at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? Yes, please, Mr. Trophynik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u102	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, that the technology or realization of the content of my amendment is complicated is simply not true. The technology is exactly the same as proposed by the government. It is necessary to determine the amount of the contribution and whoever proves that he has paid the central, the second, the third, has proof that he does not have, but does not. So please, in this way - I think you've missed it, because you didn't say it on purpose because it's simply not true. However, I would very much like to have proposed this amendment on a committee where the vote has been undecided, and since then, I think it is at least fourteen days or three weeks and I would expect by the proposer a financial illustration of my amendment. Because the claim that you said you didn't support the amendment because it means greater burden, rejection, it's simply not true because you can't say it; but if you know, please say it. But I'm afraid to -- just put it away like that, with your left hand. Please tell me why this is more. That's when I'm ready to argue with you with the numbers. So please - normally you will say no, but do not hold that it is complicated to return! Far from that: purely the same technology, the exact same definition of the average cost, is correct. And I am taking this opportunity because the government's proposal, in particular in those parts where it tries to explain its key or this percentage, is incorrect. What is it - you've missed these calculations on both sides, you're only talking about unilaterally, because you only have numbers on impulses in the outgoing, not the other way around. And please don't underestimate us like that. Those who prepared this for you did it very superficially. I didn't say that on purpose before, but now you've come to such a level as to say that it's complicated, which is not true; the government can't answer how much more it costs - but I'm saying that it's not - 1, 2, 3 is correct. The key - not only can amortisation or amortisation not be the key, but we could do something else out of it, but it cannot be so, in particular not in the way it was presented in the explanation of the law and at the time of the presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u103	Thank you. Anyone else? There's no more debate. I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendments to Article 4. We have six amendments, as they were determined after this sequence, so we will vote. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 4. We're voting, please. Of the 59 present, 30 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 27.]] The amendment was accepted. With this amendment adopted, the other amendments are irrelevant. We still vote on Article 2 as a whole. Excuse me, excuse me. Article 4 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 votes in favour of 34 Members and Members, 25 were against. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 25.]] The Article has been adopted. We're moving on to Article 5. At Article 5, we have three amendments. I am opening a debate on the amendments and the article. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u104	I would warn Members if this would, of course, have any response that we do not support the amendment to Article 5 under number 1, because I believe that this is, however, too short a hand, impossible a hand; hands that cannot be realized. And it makes no sense that the National Assembly lays down hands that are impossible and then, of course, criticises it. I would therefore suggest that you do not accept the first amendment to Article 5. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u105	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendments to Article 5. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 5. Let's vote, please. Of the 65 present, 23 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment to Article 5. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 60 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on the third amendment to Article 5. We're voting, please. Of the 63 present, 57 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. And we are voting on Article 5 as a whole. Article 5 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 61 Members and Members voted against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The Article has been adopted. We're at Article 6. We have six amendments here. Please, if you can also look at the comments that are under individual amendments. I wouldn't point them out now. We will draw special attention to them before voting if necessary. I am opening the debate on Article 6 and the amendments. Who wants a word? The MPs and the MPs? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, the Government opposes the second amendment to Article 6 and, of course, the sixth amendment to Article 6, although it is recognised that this is linked to the amendments adopted to Article 4 to the first amendment. The government will table an amendment to the amendment only in the third reading. I suggest you accept these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Trofenik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u108	Thank you for your word. I think it's going between the government and between me as a proposal for a second amendment for a misunderstanding. My intention is the same, but more clearly stated, that proportional shares are returned. Since the text published in the Rapporteur appears to me, I apologize, it seems incorrectly written or duly written. "The return received under Article 4 of this Law shall be returned by the local community in full in proportion to the investments made by persons." And so on. The content is exactly the same, so I'm surprised, but the text is clear that the government disagrees, but I will not "sorry" unless it is accepted because it is not substantive, but the aim was to clear the text.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u109	Thank you. Any other Members and Members? [[Nobody.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u110	I'm sorry. It's just that we need to take a good look at things. It is clear that, as soon as possible, I am staying with our position on Article 6, so we do not think that it is necessary to accept that our proposal is better, but I am correcting my position on the amendment of Mr Trofenik to Article 6, the sixth amendment, which will be after the reading that we have just done, as soon as possible – the government does not oppose this amendment. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u111	Doesn't he mind? Thank you. Can we close the debate? [[Yeah.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote on the amendments to Article 6. Let's vote on the first amendment. Let's vote, please! Of the 63 present, 61 members and Members voted against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Second amendment, here I remind you of the note below. If this is accepted, then the amendment under point 3 will be irrelevant. Let's vote on the second amendment. Let's vote, please! Peace in the hall! Of the 63 present, 30 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Let's vote on the amendment under order number three. Let's vote, please! Of the 60 present, 53 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on the fourth amendment. Let's vote. Of the 62 present, 57 members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're voting on the fifth amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 61 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the sixth amendment. Excuse me! Explanation of the vote concerning the sixth amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u112	I will vote, of course, for the amendment. Why? Because I think this is an urgent provision; otherwise, someone could understand that that part of the funds invested in the self-contribution telephone network can be shared among natural persons, which is contrary to the law on self-contribution.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u113	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? [[Yes, you can.]] So we're voting on the sixth amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 59 present, 36 members and Members voted against. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against 22.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still vote on Article 6 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 62 members and Members voted against. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that Article 6 has been adopted. Article 8, the four amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word, Members and Members? [[Nobody.]] Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u114	I would like to point out that, earlier in Article 8, we propose not to adopt the amendment under number 1. I think that the amendment under number 2 is essentially a corrected amendment to the committee that summarises, also in accordance with what I have said before, the fact that the contract, accounts and other types of documents must prove the contractual value. We suggest that because of nomotechnics and purity, the word actually means this amendment under number 2 a better solution than this one under number 1.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u115	Thank you. Can we close the debate? [[Yes, you can.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendments and the article. We first vote on the first amendment to Article 8. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 23, 40 voted against. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. Let's vote, please. Of the 62 present, 59 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 51 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 11.]] The amendment was accepted. And the fourth amendment. Let's vote, please. Of the 60 present, 59 voted in favour, no one opposed. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 8 as a whole. Let's vote, please. Of the 63 present, 62 Members and Members voted in favour, no one opposed. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. Article 12 Three amendments. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u116	Thank you very much. I'd like to say something in support of amendment number two. In fact, Article 12 is crucial as regards the timing of the return. And this definition in the third paragraph, or in the second paragraph, to begin the amounts referred to in Article 4 of this Law to be returned to the beneficiaries within 3 months of the privatisation of the State interest in Telekom Slovenije d.d., moves the return to a distant future. Because neither in the debate nor in the contacts we had with the association, they could ensure that they could be given a time limit for this privatisation of Telekom to be carried out, which would in fact also set a time limit for the reimbursement of the amounts referred to in Article 4. Therefore, we propose an amendment in the proposed text proposing that the amounts should start to be reimbursed to beneficiaries within 1 month of the first purchase payment from the privatisation of the state share in Telekom Slovenije d.d. This practically means that the first purchase from the sold state shares in Telekom would be made available to the beneficiaries under this law, without waiting for the exercise of privatisation, because all of this can, I will say, move into an undetermined future and ask for a good purpose from the proposer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u117	Thank you. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u118	I'm sorry. The Secretary of State's deadline has already come to an end. So, second amendment to Article 12. I must say, I don't understand him very well at best. The amounts referred to in the third and fifth paragraphs of Article 8-8, the third paragraph shall read as follows: 'The written settlement signed by the applicant and the Advocate General shall have the title, and so on. And the fifth paragraph, which says, "If the government asks and the state's attorney does not decide, then it goes to court," and so on. However, in the case of paragraph 4, editorial corrections should be made. So Article 4 does not have a fifth paragraph. Did we add it? We didn't add it. So, this amendment, I understand, is nomotechnically pointless. Well, he's pointless. He's incompetent. It makes no sense, simply put, and, of course, I reject it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u120	I don't think it's as pointless as it seems at first sight. The law nicely states that it is possible to return only after a deal has been made with the state's attorney. And the reference to the fifth paragraph of Article 8 then makes perfect sense. When an agreement is reached with the Advocate, because it is also difficult to reach a number of deadlines and procedures for the establishment of the Agency under your proposal, and then this data collection, this table and the other table, that I will not indicate how. Recovery is possible only after an agreement has been concluded with the defence department. We have written that this amount should be returned in connection with the agreement reached or with the action reached in court, the amount which must be previously justified by one or the other act in order to be linked to the first purchase of the resold state shares of Telekom. Not that after we have reached these two terms of return, we are still waiting for the final privatisation of Telekom's state share, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u122	I must apologize for the misinterpretation of your article, because, in fact, we have prepared this solution in Article 3, and therefore I apologize. In fact, when a person looks at it, he must have these things in front of his eyes. So, we believe that we are rejecting this amendment of yours primarily because we believe that it is clear in our article that the funds begin to be returned as soon as they begin to flow into the so-called budget fund. This has already been made clear several times and there is no reason for this to be written about any months, even here it says, "in the period of three months after the privatisation exercise", and this is a life and reasonable period - one month earlier or two months later, it means nothing. When it is said 'privatisation carried out' means the privatisation of that share that is then carried out, which is the subject of privatisation. And that is also quite clear, so I think that this second amendment should be rejected and adopted by the third. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u123	Thank you. Mr. Sušnik and then Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u124	Well, I'd still say, look, a preacher or a verb "executed" means a condition. And for me, the privatisation of Telekom is over. This may, however, be a long process that takes years and years before the privatisation of Telekom has been completed. You mentioned earlier that it is likely that the country will always retain one share, so it seems to us that the deadline for the start of the return is not sufficiently specified and therefore we have also tabled an amendment that makes it clear that the first purchase should go to Telekom's sold shares for recovery under this law. I think that this is a more defined form, which does not allow any doubt that the first purchase will be from the sold shares of Telekom, which are owned by the State, intended for recovery under this law. And I don't think this amendment is in any way challenged by the intention of the proposer, as you've seen it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u126	Thank you, Vice President, for your word. That's exactly what I'm trying to say is that this amendment doesn't make the law any worse. In short, it defines and specifies the procedure, the beginning of the return. And only through the adoption of this amendment can we, Mr Minister, improve the rule of law. I don't think this amendment in any way spoils the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u128	Thank you very much. That's exactly what this article says, I'll say, double-written, "after a privatisation." I had previously understood the Minister that he did not object to this work, that he was more disturbed by it, "after three or one months", but he did not oppose this part of the amendment, "at the first payment of the purchase from privatisation". So, the definition of "at the first payment of the purchase" is certainly more appropriate, because it is exact and it says exactly when - when something ends, because it can also be understood that way, after the privatisation, so the work done, when the work is done, then we will tell you after so much time to pay for it. And here he says, "after the first performance, we'll start this and that." And after understanding the Minister, he's talking about coming back, "after the first work done, this and this will begin." And that, of course, it will also be for everyone else in the state administration and state-owned companies who will deal with it, the lawyer and I do not know who is clearly and precisely enough, it is right to "after the first work done", i.e. after the first payment of the purchase. Otherwise, of course, this could lead to a variety of interpretations and, of course, misunderstandings or interpretations, as if they were "fitting" so that they would answer. And those who should return would respond to them as soon as possible; those who are beneficiaries of this clearly, as we have always been, even in the previous debate when we were talking about the telecommunications law, were talking about when it will begin. So, after the first privatisation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u129	Can we close the debate? Okay, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the amendments to Article 12. We vote on the first amendment to Article 12. We're voting, please. Of the 63 present, 59 members and Members voted against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We're voting on the second amendment. We're voting. Of the 64 present, 25 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 38.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are still voting on the third amendment. We're voting. Of the 62 present, 57 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. And we are now voting on Article 12 as a whole. We're voting, please. Of the 63 present, 54 members and Members voted against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] The Article has been adopted. Article 15, first amendment, one amendment. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. There's only one amendment. So we are voting on this amendment to Article 15. We're voting, please. Of the 61 present, 57 members and Members voted in favour, one against. [[The vote was 57.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We still vote on Article 15 as a whole. We're voting, please. Of the 57 present, 54 members and Members voted against. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The Article has been adopted. I note that we have thus concluded the debate and decision on the amendments tabled. We are moving on to a debate on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to say another word, we are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Let's vote, please! Of the 61 present, 58 members and Members voted against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I find the remaining articles to be adopted with this. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, we can decide on the title of the law. Let's vote, please, on the title! Of the 64 present, 60 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 60.]] [[Against three.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We're moving to 3rd reading. Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u130	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The Government intends to table or agree to an amendment to Article 4. I would ask if this point could be interrupted for third reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u131	At this point, we have an amendment. Anyone else want to announce the amendment? Mr. Sušnik. So I am adjourning the debate on this law in the third reading. We'll continue tomorrow at 2 p.m. This concludes this point. We continue with the Act on the Psychological Activities of Our Lady and Gentlemen, we are at 12. PERFORMANCE OF THE DAY'S LINE. So I am moving on to the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Psychological Activity. The draft law was submitted to the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I'm asking, does the representative of the State Council want a word? Mr. Zoltan Jan, please. Here you go. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u132	Ladies and gentlemen! I'd like to introduce you to the Psychological Act, which has a long history. For the first time, this law began to be prepared in 1991 and was then put into action, but the 1996 legislative procedure was terminated by the end of the term of office of the National Assembly. The National Council respected the initiative of the psychologists society of the Republic of Slovenia, which believes that this law is urgently needed and that this area, the field of psychology, should be regulated in a uniform manner and fully ensured some quality of activity. Dear Members! We certainly agree that psychology is an important area and that it interferes with the very essence of man and that we must regulate matters in this area and also ensure some normal responsibility and also regulate this activity. Data for the Republic of Slovenia show that 5% of the population of the Republic of Slovenia has repeated severe psychological problems. 40 to 50% of the population is in severe mental distress at least once, and some also need treatment. Of course, we would also point out that a lot of data places us at the very top of those countries where suicide is very high. This area is now left to chance, and everyone can reach out to this area. You'll probably be surprised, but anyone between us can start to treat, solve psychological problems, whether he's qualified or not. It also does not matter what methods he uses; it can be some esoteric principles and so on The news of this issue has also been examined by a wider professional and interested public at the consultation. The results are published in the Chamber, which I think were made available to Members. And there we found a high degree of consensus that this area needs to be regulated in a uniform manner. It is true that in some areas this is regulated. In the field of health and social and education, these powers are regulated. But it is a new phenomenon that brings modern life. The pressures and stresses of each individual among us, before whom no one is immune. And these people, when they experience a more severe personal experience, sometimes and often they turn to different people. We know what the field of this healthcare activity is. And then people are forced to go to someone who does psychological work. What is psychological activity? What are the responsibilities, the responsibilities? And what do you have to do here? That, of course, is not arranged. In the field of health - yes, a psychiatrist can also prescribe medications, but of course they can occur anywhere, at any time, at any other activity. These are the things that convince us that that marriage, this marriage that has a 10-year history, was necessary. Let me also point out that when the government was in the process, that is, in the mid-1990s, it also made a positive statement on this law and considered that this should be regulated. We, the Council of State after taking over this law as a proponent, also checked the situation today. For in ten years many things have changed, and many things have been done. And of course, then we found that this law was necessary and that it was important to accept it. The basic objectives of the Act on Psychological Activity are to establish a uniform legal regime for psychological activities in the Republic of Slovenia. The specific objectives or principles of such regulation are in particular: to define psychological activity and its specificities, to ensure greater professionalism and ethics of psychological work, to regulate the professional position of psychologists, to ensure supervision of the work of psychologists, to determine the competences of administrative and professional bodies in the field of psychological care, and to harmonise the Slovenian regime with international standards and standards. Well, solutions are adapted to that. The law lays down the conditions for obtaining a licence, specifying the concept of psychological activity itself, so as to know what someone is doing, the conditions under which psychological activity is carried out and, of course, the organisation of such activities. This provides for the establishment of a chamber which would then have control over the whole area and coordinate those needs. The Committee of the National Assembly, as a parent body, also considered the law and supported it by adopting the decision you have on the table and on which you will vote. The only obvious dilemma that has been is whether this marriage is necessary or not, and here we defend the position that it is necessary. As I have already said, it is true that this activity in the field of social protection, in the field of health, is quite normal, but beyond that there is a range of areas, where there is no norm, no responsibility and all questions remain open. This is all that happens in the field of industry, the military, the police, in the personal life of each individual. That's why I think this law should go. The comments made by the secretariat for legislation are such that they can be taken into account and incorporated into law in the legislative process, and all that is done in the proposal for a decision, so that I see no reason for the law not to experience your support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. Mr Brenčič, please present the opinion of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and fellow Members! The Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities, as a parent, considered the draft law at its 17th regular session. I will not repeat the presentation of the law by the proposer, which was exactly the same or similar to today's, but it must be stopped in the broad opinion of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters, which notes that the bill contains all the formal elements of the legislative proposal under Article 175 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. However, it has a comment on the cost of the financial implications presented, as quantitative estimates of expenditure from the State budget are not evident, nor is it explained from which resources will be drawn from the allocation to the Chamber in the first years. The secretariat has no comments on the compatibility of the draft law with the Constitution. From a legal point of view, however, it considers that in the further stages of the legislative procedure for the treatment and adoption of law, certain solutions should be further examined in the direction of their legal consistency with other sectoral laws in which psychological activity or the activity of psychologists in certain areas is different. The secretariat considers that it would have been advisable to consider a legal solution in the original draft of the bill, whereby administrative powers would have been combined in that ministry which largely covers this activity, and it would also have suggested considering a legal solution whereby all psychologists would be required to join the Chamber. The opinion of the secretariat also shows the specific comments to the second, seventh, eighth, ninth, tenth, eleventh, thirteenth, sixteenth and nineteenth, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-eight, thirty-three and forty-six, on Articles 35, 36, 37 and 38 of the Act. The Committee did not receive a written opinion from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the proposal for a bill on psychological activity, which must have made it somewhat difficult for colleagues and colleagues to decide on the Committee's members, and the oral opinion was presented as a representative of the Ministry of Health by the Minister of Health, Dr Dusan Keber, State Secretary at the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport Mag. Mirko Zorman presented the oral opinion as a representative of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, while the invited representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs and the representative of the Ministry of the Interior were not on the committee and we did not receive their opinion. The Minister of Health said that, in their view, the status of psychologists working in the field of health is well regulated in the Health Act, which also allows them all forms of organisation, including chambers, and therefore considers that the Law on Psychological Activity is not necessary. The detailed opinion was also made by a representative of the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, who said that psychological activity in education was properly regulated in the law of the organisation and financing of education and education and in the law on the direction of children with special needs. In the debate, members of the Committee expressed on the one hand the surprise of the government's approach to this issue, as the work of psychologists is broad and in fact covers almost all areas. While some concerns were expressed about the need for law, the view prevailed that an area not sufficiently defined and sufficiently regulated should be regulated. The panellists, however, pointed out in particular some of the shortcomings of the annex to the law, to which a member of the secretariat also pointed out the secretariat for legislation and legal matters, and referred mainly to the way in which a chamber of psychologists was established, its competence, operation, membership and, of course, funding. We felt that it was necessary to prescribe compulsory membership in the Chamber, given that the Chamber expected public powers and the need for the consent of the Government, while there was no need for its participation in the establishment of the Chamber. The question of the motherhood of the Ministry is also raised, since the bill does not define the competent or supervisory ministry. Administrative powers should therefore be brought together in that ministry, which mainly covers psychological activity, which is likely to be quite difficult in practice. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family and Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, in accordance with Article 185 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, after final consideration of the proposal for a bill on psychological activities, to adopt the following conclusions: First conclusion: "Proposal of the Act on Psychological Activity, First Review, is a suitable basis for preparing a draft text for second reading." Second conclusion: "In preparing a proposal for a second reading, the proposal for a second reading, in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, should take into account the following two points: 'Study and take into account the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, and further examine the possibility of defining more clearly in the proposal for a second reading the area of the establishment and organisation of the Psychological Chamber, while examining the public powers that the Chamber is supposed to have, including the status of its membership,' i.e. the membership of psychologists in the Chamber." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak to the representatives of the government whom I welcome on this occasion? Mr. Secretary of State, will you? Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Well-welcome, distinguished presidents and Members of Parliament! Therefore, the Government has submitted its opinion to the National Assembly and assesses that the special act on psychological activity, which was tabled by the Council of State in the procedure of the National Assembly, is not necessary. The government estimates that the law touches on the activities of a profession that performs very different functions in different sectors in our society, in social care, in education, in health and in the economy. These sectors are also very different and their users are entering these activities, these sectors, because of very different needs and interests. Therefore, these individual activities, if so called by sectoral laws, are governed by the laws of these activities, which also regulate the operation of individual operators within these activities. Thus, health, education, social protection laws regulate both the content of these activities and the scope of the activities of individual professions, the conditions for carrying out activities, the functions of supervision, the possibility of professional integration of individual professional groups, cachove association and so on. In this way, of course, the most comprehensive guarantee is the provision of the interests of those who need services in these activities. They're citizens. This law does not provide better solutions, nor new solutions for users of services of various activities, but the law in some way threatens to try to unify the needs of citizens through the activity of the profession. Therefore, the Government sees no reason to adopt this special law and the National Assembly proposes not to adopt this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? In order, Dr. Tsukati, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! We have a strange marriage ahead of us because, as my predecessor said, it interferes with an activity that is very fragmented in different areas. We meet psychologists in schools, in work organizations, in businesses, in health care. It is certainly an activity that is scattered across Slovenian space, such as the distracted need to regulate certain psychological elements both individually and groups, group psychology, group dynamics as well as society. This would not be an argument that we would not go together in an attempt to regulate this area, but rather a reason why we should approach it. Experience has shown, not only in Slovenia, where we already have a number of professions regulated by the Chamber and the Chamber, but mainly foreign western experience shows that in fact self-regulation of the profession in democratic circumstances means the best guarantee that some professions do not agree that standards, education are in some way ensured and that consumer or subscriber protection is guaranteed, if you wish. Kind of professions, not just in health care. Certainly this principle of subsidiarity, which has proved to be the iron principle of Western democracy, is likely to require further consideration in the regulation of unregulated professions. Look, construction engineers with their own chamber, you could say they don't need it because they have the Ministry of Economy, that's what they say, not someone who can be on top of them. The Pharmacy Chamber or the Medical Chamber - we don't need because these profiles have a minister of health who can regulate them. Psychologists don't have anyone. They don't even have a Home Office. I think it's so much more necessary to sort these things out in some way. Therefore, we welcome the approach, welcome the idea of organising a profession, organising where the profession itself assumes a kind of responsibility for its work and it is not necessary for every country to somehow lead every profession at its mother's hands. We do, however, have some comments to take into account in the preparation of the second reading material. I would like to take these comments into account. Article 9 speaks of a licence. It states that providers of health titles do not need traineeships to obtain a basic licence. I believe that this is an inconsistent approach to professional requirements, which are always the basis for licensing, which is work permits. Masters, PhDs and other titles cannot replace traineeships. Furthermore, in Article 11, which speaks again of a licence, namely a licence for specialist activity. Here too, it shows a degree of inconsistencies or a lack of courage to intervene in this area, since the proposal provides that the procedure for carrying out the specialist examination and the appointment of the examination committee shall be determined by the chamber, but in agreement with the competent ministry. Firstly, we do not have a competent ministry, and secondly, we would not need the Ministry's consent for every detail. Not for the appointment of an exam committee. Because then we'd always be at the door giving each other a hook. Some of these principles are still being repeated and we propose that, in fact, the Chamber fully assumes the responsibilities that a profession can assume. Like I said, he doesn't have to stick to some minister. Further, the issue of private work should be addressed again in the case of the licence. In the second paragraph of Article 19, we read about those conditions, which are the conditions under which private practice may be carried out. That's what the text says. Those conditions shall be determined by the competent ministry and shall, on the basis of the opinion of the Chamber of Psychologists, issue a decision to carry out private practice. I believe that here we should separate two types of activities of psychologists, namely the activity for which the State is interested, this is a public service, where the Minister or Government or any institution must have a decisive word. However, in the case of a private activity which is not of public interest which is not a public service, the Chamber or the one which grants the concession may, for sure, determine the professional and ethical competence of a particular candidate. Article 22, referring to the register, the Chamber of Psychologists shall keep a register of psychologists who carry out private psychological practice. I think it's too modest. If we want a profession to manage its activity in a sovereign and responsible manner, then, of course, the Chamber must keep a register of all psychologists who carry out psychological activities and not just private individuals. Similarly, the question of the scope of the powers or tasks of the Chamber is to be mentioned in Article 29, where it is stated in the last paragraph that the tasks of the Chamber established by the law are also binding on non-members. I don't think that's necessary. They must be binding on all psychologists, and this universality must be incorporated into the text so far. Let me get this straight. The main point of the text is that the following principles must be clearly laid down: the Chamber should not set up a Minister or a Government as referred to in Article 35. That's impossible. The Chamber shall establish itself. It's a basic principle. Call her and set her up. If the psychologists are unable to establish it, then it's better not to have it, because they won't be able to take charge either. The principle of autonomy also applies in that, in fact, we or the government must determine the mother ministry. This will be necessary sooner or later, even if we do not establish a chamber. The second principle is the principle of membership. If a profession is to assume its responsibilities and responsibilities in a solid, high-quality manner, membership must in some way be compulsory. Next. Licences, supervision, education - this is the sovereign duty of the Chamber and it is not necessary to include the professional elements required in the issue of licences in the supervision, education, in these matters, in the Ministry responsible. The government and the ministries have other more important things to do. It is for this reason that we bear the responsibility and tasks of the profession itself. This is also the case with the public powers under which things are regulated, and both the government and the ministry are burdened if the ministries feel responsible for this area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Marija Tisovic, Nova Slovenija, has the floor, followed by Mrs Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! Following a review of the Law on Psychological Activities, the New Slovenia Group decided not to immediately support the law. Psychological activity is now regulated by law and by law by the Ministry of Health, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, Family, Social and Disabled Persons. If we wanted to adopt a new bill on psychological activity in any way now, this would mean that we need to adopt already regulated areas in the legislation. Clinical psychology is fully integrated into the health system in the field of health care. However, clinical and other medical psychologists exercise their rights and obligations in a system that applies to healthcare professionals and co-workers. They also have a well-organised national professional college, as well as a law on social protection and sub-legislative acts, which clearly defines the activities of psychologists in this field. Psychologists in the field of social protection are professionally autonomous, but are committed to the professional guidelines and to respect the code of ethical principles in the field of social protection adopted by the Social Chamber of Slovenia. Also in the field of school legislation, psychological activity is sufficiently well covered. In addition, the presentation of the financial implications of the adoption of this law for the state budget is very confusing. No part has been shown to draw funds for the establishment and operation of the Chamber. In the New Slovenia Group, we also have a comment on article 35 of the bill on psychological activity, which states that a chamber of psychologists is set up by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We don't think it's good if the government is the founder of a chamber. In order to understand each other, we are not against the Chambers in general, but the Chamber must ensure membership in its good work, in the interests of the profession and members. The chamber must not be its own purpose. We have chambers that work very well, but we also have chambers on the other side that have not been brought to life in seven years. The chamber should not be its own purpose, so we need to think about this first. On the basis of all this, the New Slovenia Group considers that the proposal for a bill on psychological activity will not be supported at this time because psychological activity is already regulated in the field legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u141	Thank you. The position of the Joint List will be presented by Mrs Črnugelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u142	Hello, Mr. Vice President! The Honourable Government Representative! Representative of the proposer, Zoltan Jan! Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, I have the opportunity to present the opinion of the United List of Social Democrats on the proposal for a bill on psychological activity, which we are going to do first reading today in the National Assembly. The United List will support the present proposal of the Law on Psychological Activity, as it is aware of the importance of legal regulation of both subtle activities, such as psychological activity, since it is one of those scientific and professional activities that in particular develop very intensively in recent years, and the activity itself has an impact on the mental, social, health and well-being of all people. Due to the complexity, complexity of the problems and issues that this activity solves or attempts to resolve, in particular in the field of health, education, the protection of pre-school children, education, employment, social protection, the economy, marketing, sport, defence and research activities and other activities, we have welcomed the legal regulation of this area in the Consolidated List, mainly due to the diversity and complexity of the area and the fact that the activity is already regulated in certain sectoral laws such as the Health Action Act, the Education and Education Financing Act and other sub-legislative acts. The United List of Social Democrats believes that it is precisely because the activity is so dispersed across the various spheres that the present law is so important and necessary. The law uniformly regulates the method of obtaining the title of psychologists, the definition of the performance of psychological activities, defines the use of the word "psychologist" in more detail the condition for professional autonomy, defines traineeships, practice, professional examinations, sepervisoration, detailed breakdown of the licence, what is the basic licence, what is a specific licence, a specific activity licence, licensing and licensing, which has not been regulated so far. In particular, provisions relating to data confidentiality are very welcome, as, despite the data protection law, it is often the case that data from this segment are used and used for various other activities. The United List of Social Democrats supports the pooling of psychologists who carry out private practice, as well as in the Chamber if they are taking part as an interest group, as the Consolidated List supports all interested associations. The United List considers that it would be appropriate to consider a solution to the second reading by which those psychologists who necessarily need a licence would be required to join the Chamber, while non-members would be considered to have the tasks and principles of the functioning of psychologists as defined in the rules of association as recommended for non-members, but not mandatory. We expect that the financial implications of the law, as well as the other uncertainties that have been raised in the debate on the Committee on Social, Health and Sport, will also be resolved today in this debate until the second reading. It is said that the combined list supports the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Pece of the Slovenian National Party has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u144	Since I'm gonna be brief, I'm gonna let myself talk from the seat. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group for two reasons. Firstly, because of our belief or our own assessment that the law protects the user, that the law confers rights and obligations which are better read, based on the existing proposal at this time, or that it is positive that they are also written in the form of an act. Secondly, we also estimate that such an approach at this stage will help to improve the quality of psychological activity, and therefore it seems particularly meaningful to us because of some kind of constructive approach, it seems particularly meaningful to me to draw a second conclusion from the mother body, where we are also criticising the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, its unwillingness and some kind of ignorance towards the very approach of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u145	Thank you very much. We have thus concluded the presentations of the parliamentary groups to the law and I give the floor to Members and Members. We do not have written applications, so we will limit all further discussions to five minutes. Does anyone want a word? Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u146	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. In any event, I support the sense that the State or State authorities are leaving as much of the focus as possible on subsidiarity in certain occupational groups, occupational groups or that we are leaving to the forefront the self-regulation of certain professions, within the organisation of the profession, within the internal organisation in the sense of chambers or other forms, even in order to establish this, I would say, the inability for some people to call themselves such and other professionals or representatives of the profession. However, with all due respect for the specificity of the profession of psychologist and this activity, when an activity operates in such different fields of work, the working environment is so insecure that the legal regulation of this profession or the definition of this profession, as provided by this law, is impossible and probably impossible and, as I read, is also impossible. I wonder if this law will also remain conceptually as it is written, is some kind of domino for a whole range of new occupational groups that will require legal placement in the structure, both in the real sector and in the public sector. I would like to point out that this can be a very difficult regulated decision, whether the regulated involvement in the current structural legal definition of certain activities, which have a whole range of professions in this structural involvement already. In general, I fully support the purpose, including the Chamber as such, but its financial implications must also be carefully worked out and, above all, the internal need for this profession to be self-organised or self-regulated in the creation of the Chamber. From such a prepared proposal as this proposal, I have been told that I have not already supported the law on the committee and I will now do so. I'm not going to support the proposal for the conclusion of the parent's working body. In doing so, I do not deny the interest of this professional group to continue to make efforts to self-regulation within this professional group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u147	Anyone else want a word? Mr. Jan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u148	Dear Members! Thank you very much to all who have supported this bill and have also seen what it is and what it regulates. First of all, fellow Member Brenčič made it clear that the law is trying to regulate that area, that zone outside the institutions. No one disputes that psychological activity is regulated in the field of education, in the field of medicine, in the field of social affairs. It's about those black foxes where anyone between us or anyone else can declare themselves a psychologist and play with mental health. And that's what's happening in the world. That's what I think is important. There is also a law in the procedure of the National Assembly that requires the protection of psychological patients. He could also cite specific cases where the psychiatrist ran out of points, and he placed it at the door because such a patient did not have the means to go into private practice. And here he can pay, or he can go to a coffee-prophesy, or lay hands on him, or direct him into some esoteric activity. And that's completely impeccable. The whole range of other professions, which play with significantly less important areas of human life, is regulated. Nobody thinks he's gonna fix a car if he's not a mechanic and he doesn't have professional skills. Here in health care, of course, we need these and these and these conditions. In school, a psychologist has these and these conditions that he has to meet if he wants to do his job. There's a crowd beyond that. If you look at what's happening in the United States of America, in France, where psychologists take over the role of priests, where many private cabinets are opened. This will happen slowly to us, or it has already occurred. This seems to me to be the most important area that opens up and can be regulated through this. By not being extremely repressive, the law regulates this area by defining the concept of psychology. If someone wants to prophesy from coffee, he can prophesy, he can heal, but this is not a psychological activity. This is also an important warning for those who will find themselves in their tribulation and try to solve problems in this way. If someone who takes the right, if someone else dies or commits suicide, he's not responsible for anyone right now. If you're hoping to take over, then it's your business. It's about the financial implications. It is true that they are not precisely defined here, but it is perfectly clear in the final points that the burdens are only the first year until the chamber becomes operational. That's the basic stuff. There is no problem in quantifying the cost of the annual salary of two people and rent for two spaces. And that, I think, is also all that would burden the budget for the first year. Everything else, as has been said in the debate, is aimed at decommissioning public funds in essence and also to relieve the work of administrative authorities or government authorities and professional services by taking over the functions of the Chamber and the Chamber is financed by its contributions and by those powers conferred on the Chamber by the State. This is one of the rare laws that do not impose important obligations on the budget, but in particular on long-term obligations. That seems like the most important thing to me. Anything else that has been said in the debate and what the Committee has also put forward in its proposal for a decision, as well as what are parliamentary groups, can be included and I think that a quality law can be created that will help regulate and raise the quality of life in the Republic of Slovenia, where these difficulties are very recent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u150	I think that the proposed law, or the explanation that has just been given, needs to be added, but a shorter comment should be added if we are no longer going into a longer analysis of this proposal. There could be more comments, not just an apology, where it says that the law does not have financial consequences. The fact is, it brings them, but it is not defined, but it may be the slightest weakness. Of the 39 articles that this bill has, I think 30 are already absorbed in existing legislation by the Republic of Slovenia. In particular, from the law on the organisation and financing of education and education, which sets out very clearly how psychological activity is organised in schools, both in the social field, social pedagogy and defectology, to the law on the orientation of children with special health problems, to the law on health activities, which very clearly discusses what measures and activities are in the field of health workers, including clinical psychologists, to the law on social protection, which accurately defines the social protection activity carried out by psychologists and also to commit themselves to the code adopted by the social council of Slovenia, etc. I would like to point out that the many solutions provided in this law are already resolved in existing legislation. We have heard this, and therefore I also understand that three ministries, I suppose three ministries, or the government has not supported the law, the ministries that could be competent, have not been called into their jurisdiction by the law. At the same time, I would like to say that one key chapter that this law introduces in a new way, and this is a chamber, as it has been seen, nevertheless opens up a number of questions that should probably be given their opinion and answers by those experts who are not only involved in research at the moment, with education and with the regulation of this area, because I think that if so adopted, the Chamber would have significantly affected certain autonomys that are currently owned by the profession or by someone else. Furthermore, the Chamber also submits the proposal that membership is compulsory only for those psychologists who need a license for their work, so that I do not raise further the issue of licences in these three forms, such as those presented as special, special and basic, which are also a problem for themselves. However, if only those members who need a licence to participate in their work are required to participate in the Chamber, while the decisions would be valid for the entire psychological activity, which means that certain parts of the profession with a licence would also decide on that part, and on very important issues, the Chamber would also decide on that part of the profession which is not part of this Chamber. Certainly it would be quite discriminatory or certainly incomplete, if I apologize for the little grave expression, for the incomplete view of this profession which is to be associated with this law. However, the Chamber has high, large, very broad competences, from the creation of codes of psychological ethics, by the way, it already has part of the psychological profession, to the preparation of educational programmes, the granting of licences, training, the provision of training in the acquisition of licences, the exercise of professional supervision and so on, so that I do not summarize the whole article where the State would give those parts of public powers that are not yet regulated. Moreover, the law does not take into account or incorporate those institutions which have already been active and legitimate in the field of psychological discipline. At the same time, in the explanation of the representative - which is why I actually came to my attention - it seems to me that there is a lot of confusion about what psychologists are here: what they are and what they are, and what they are, or what the opposite advisors are, who are supposed to be so wildly organized in this room even in private practice they can already be today - and certainly the psychologist cannot act on the market as a "gogar". However, I would not point out or have no time to raise the issue of psychotherapeutic activity, which is why I think that the possibility of private work is largely in place. That could be next. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u151	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? [[No one else.]] I would have found that there are no more debaters and would have concluded the general debate. We are moving on to a debate on the proposed positions and conclusions. We've heard about the proposals before. Here we have two conclusions of the parent working body and two positions. First, we will vote on the first decision, which reads: The proposal for a bill on psychological activity - the first reading is a suitable basis for preparing a draft text for the second reading. Let's vote please. Of the 51 present, 17 members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 28.]] I note that the first decision has not been adopted and the other conclusions are also not current and therefore the legislative procedure is terminated. We're moving to 14. Period, it's a draft of the War Cemetery Act. It's a second treatment. Thank you all, thank you. The proposal for the War Cemetery Act was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and I welcome the representatives of the Ministry of Labour on this occasion. You probably want the opening statement. Here you are, Mr State Secretary, Mr Žnidarsic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u152	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The draft law for first reading was adopted by the Government at its 50th meeting on 19.2.1998 and sent to the National Assembly. At its 18th session, on 15.2.2000, the National Assembly considered the proposal in its first reading and adopted the following conclusions and views. The first conclusion - the proposal of the War Cemetery Act, the first consideration, is an appropriate basis for drafting the text of the draft law for the second reading. Second conclusion - a proposal for the War Cemetery Act for second reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the following views. It shall examine and take into account the comments made by the Secretariat on legislation and legal matters. Consider the possibility of regulating those Slovenian graves abroad that died following the war events following the official conclusion of World War II. The eligibility of classification among war graves is also studied in newly discovered graves in Hospitalič and tank ditches near Maribor. Consider the possibility of classifying the graves of fallen fighters, the Tiger organization during the war graves. The draft law at first reading also adopted an additional decision, which reads as follows: By the second reading of the proposal of the War Cemetery Act, the applicant should have prepared a comparative analysis of how the marking and protection of the graves of the occupied collaborators is regulated in European countries. The following explanation was given. Such analysis is necessary in order to enable us in our country to have comparable solutions in this area with the countries of the anti-fascist and anti-Nazi coalitions in World War II. The Government has drawn up a proposal for a second reading in accordance with the conclusions and views of the National Assembly and has taken them into account as far as possible and has given reasons for the part where this was not possible. After a careful examination of the draft law so prepared for second reading, the Government found that amendments to most articles of the legal provision could be substantially improved, necessary and justified. It was also found that the drafting of the text of the law for first reading did not take into account the proposals and views of the then government commission of the Republic of Slovenia on the issue of hidden graves. The Government has therefore taken into account and coordinated the proposals, opinions and views of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the issue of hidden graves in the previous and new Assembly, the Commission of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the implementation of the law on the correction of injustices, the Ministry of Environment and Space, the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Law and Legal Affairs of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in preparing the amendments to the draft law for second reading. The government's amendments are so inter-resortively coordinated and are also consistent with the government's intention to resolve the issue of hidden graves created during and after World War II and restore dignity to the dead. In particular, the latter ordered the drafting of amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4 and 13 by treating non-discriminatoryly all human victims of all wars in Slovenia. In doing so, the government has deliberately avoided valuable judgments, historical and political definitions. The requested analysis was also carried out by the National Assembly. In countries such as Italy, France, Norway, Finland, only family members and their own costs care for the burial grounds of the invaders. In doing so, it must be found that such cemeteries in these countries have been known since their creation, and the family has been able to do so and have been able to take care of them. Since in our case there are silenced victims and silenced graves, the family did not have this option, except in rare cases. Today, when these graves are discovered, in most cases identification of victims will not be possible, so the state will take care of such graves. The proposer, with his amendments below, shall also specify the competences in the field of protection of graves and shall take into account environmental and cultural protection conditions. The government, in its decisions on the proposed amendments to the proposed law, is aware of the great, including political, responsibilities until the pending issue of military graves and will support any improvements in the form of amendments that do not undermine this, could say a reconciliation concept. By replacing the amendments to the draft law for the second reading, the Government has taken into account all the comments and proposals made by the Secretariat for the legislation and legal affairs of the National Assembly, which it has prepared for the first text sent. And in the end. Under the condition that the law in the second reading is adopted, the Government proposes that the law in the third reading be carried out under the provisions of the second paragraph of Article 194 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. Mr Brenčič will present the Committee's position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. After a long beard follows the proposal of this law in second reading, which this time is under consideration, which is good. The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered the draft law at the second session of the 15th regular meeting, 10th extraordinary, non-conclusionary meeting, 17th regular session and at the following meeting of 8.3.2002. A whole series of materials arrived on the committee or in front of members of the committee with quite the opposite content. That is why I can say at the outset that the committee has done a lot of work and also a lot of hard work, so the product, as it is, is here in front of you, and it is right for us to do this work in a similar way to the insistence of the committee and get this law under the roof. However, it is necessary to stop first in the opinion of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs, which notes in its opinion that the drafter of the law has drawn up a law in accordance with Article 187 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to take into account the position of the National Assembly adopted after the first hearing. In citing those arguments which made it impossible to follow or fail to take account of certain positions, the drafter explains that some of the systemic or legal shortcomings of the legal text found in the first reading will be eliminated by its simultaneous amendments. However, from a normative technical point of view, the Secretariat considers that some amendments should be further examined and that the new solutions proposed should be further improved in the direction of greater regulatory or legal clarity. In its opinion, the secretariat also drew attention to the consideration of subtitles for which it had already decided at first reading. Such an approach should also be taken into account in the newly proposed articles. With regard to sub-titles to individual articles, it would be appropriate to check whether the sub-titles of those articles whose content is to be amended or supplemented by amendments to this extent are still appropriate. After a long and controversial discussion, the members of the Committee agreed that a second consideration of the draft law was to be carried out as soon as possible, and stressed in particular that the law must comply with the conditions of professionality, neutrality, credibility in relation to the content contained in the proposal for a law. In particular, a controversial debate took place on the categorisation of individual graves, the question whether there are also postwar graves, interwar graves, the question of the term of revolution or revolutionary violence, and the marking of individual graves created after the war. The members of the Committee agreed that the Government, with the amendments tabled of 4.2.2000, had substantially improved the original text of the bill, which could be achieved and resolved with certain issues arising from the difficult and complex content of the draft law on postwar graves. With regard to many questions about the eligibility of classification as war graves, a newly discovered cemetery, the government said that the government wanted to regulate the graves of the war with this law and that the graves associated with the war were also postwar graves. In preparing the draft law, the proposer excluded any valuation, historical facts and ideological definitions. Nor does the bill solve the status issues, but it defines the graves and regulates them. The representative of the Cemetery War Commission said that the primary position in the drafting of the bill and the amendment was to ensure that the law is non-discriminatory to all victims and that it excludes any ideological marking. The main purpose of the law is to regulate and maintain graves. Only with such content can this bill be an important part of the reconciliation process or national reconciliation process. Given that this is a technical law, but not a matter for resolving the issue of the name of interwar events, it would be appropriate not to burden ourselves with ideological and political issues when dealing with individual amendments and articles of the bill. In view of the many comments made by the secretariat on legislation and legal matters to the amendments tabled by the applicant, the Government, by letter dated 17.1. this year, proposed to the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons that the consideration and definition of amendments to the proposal for a bill of war graves should be postponed to one of the future meetings and that it should align its amendments accordingly with the comments made by the Secretariat. The Committee members agreed with the Government's proposal, given the fact that even on the basis of the secretariat's opinion, it would be possible to conduct a much more constructive and substantive discussion only on the Committee. The Committee then wished to proceed at the 10th extraordinary meeting of 7.2 with the consideration and determination of the newly tabled amendments of the Government, but unfortunately the meeting was not final. Therefore, at its 17th regular session, on 7 and 8.3., the Committee considered the draft law and the amendments tabled and also defined them. It has also been defined up to the amendments by the New Slovenia Group of Members and the Social Democratic Party, as well as the amendments by the Group of Members, with the first signed by Danica Simšič. The Committee has defined itself as such. The Committee supported all amendments tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia 4.2. These are the last amendments by the government. He also supported the amendment of the Group of Members with the first signed Article 3 of Danica Simšič. The Committee did not support the amendments to the amendments of the Government of the Group of Members with the first signed Article 4 and 13 of the draft law, the amendment of the Socialist Party and New Slovenia to the title of the law. The Committee did not define itself because the amendments have become irrelevant, until the amendments to the amendments of the Government of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia's parliamentary groups for a new 14a, for a new 22a and for a new 34a. Nor did the Committee define itself until the amendment of the parliamentary groups of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia and of New Slovenia to Articles 1, 2, 3, 6, 7 and 13. It was also not defined until the amendment of the Group of Members by the first signed Article 2 of Danica Simšič. The Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party and New Slovenia withdrew the amendment to Article 4. The Committee drafted and adopted the following amendments to the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia: to Article 1, the Committee also adopted amendments to the sub-title of the amendment of the Government to Article 4, then the amendment to the amendment of the Government to Article 13. And that's all. After the discussion, the Committee also adopted a decision proposing to the National Assembly that the draft law should be considered together with amendments to the Committee and amendments supported by the Committee. The Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy proposes to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia to adopt the following decisions after the second reading. First additional decision: The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall ask the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide an assessment of the financial resources necessary for the implementation of the law when submitting a proposal for a third-reading law. Second additional decision: By the third reading of the proposal, the proposer should prepare legal expertise on the status of the armed forces, in particular in the light of Article 2 of the draft law, which defines military graves as graves of military personnel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are in the presentation of opinions, opinions, parliamentary groups. The word has magic. Janez Drobnič, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. Allow me to give the opinion of New Slovenia on the second reading of the War Cemetery Act. Given that this National Assembly did not consider it in this session in its first reading, the opinion is somewhat more accurate and longer. Unordered graves, especially after war-torn unarmed prisoners of Slovenian nationality and others, are violations of the most basic human duties for the Slovenian country. Therefore, the general agreement on the need to regulate this shameful situation does not constitute any generosity. This has only delayed the act and recognition of the great crime committed against Slovenian and other peoples and the need to remove the stains in our country. The War Cemetery Act should have been passed at least 50 years ago. However, the then revolutionary government has solved the problem with a secret decree that all graves where perhaps 200,000 people have been killed without judgment - we will never know the exact number - cover up, remove all traces and ban any debate on the subject. These very acts of concealing the truth tell us that the then Communist authorities, which did not respect any humanity, justice and conscience, were aware that they had committed an evil crime that they had committed against their own citizens, as well as against the international public. If such an act were justified, even in the sense of a structured image of a just punishment, it would not hide them, but would normally reveal them and record them in history. Even if the steel fist of the revolution in 50 and 60 years is letting go, those who come in word of word would risk prison. The police also kept secret graves secret so that no one could quietly come to the feast of all saints and light a candle on the grave of his son, sister, mother, father or brother. It was not much better in the last ten years before the independence and breakdown of the previous system, since the truth could only reach people informally, so there was no talk about the arrangement of the graves. Then came democratic power, and among the people, at least among those who for many years had been hiding the tribulation and should not have lit candles on their loved ones' graves, raised hope for regulation. Again, things stopped, as influential individuals acted with blind maneuvers, including reconciliation and reconciliation projects, which served only to ensure that nothing was resolved. In Slovenia we have some graves, unfortunately only for some. Don't get me wrong. In Novi Slovenije we are in charge of arranging the graves and graves of all those from and after World War II who have fallen on either side, without distinction. Now there is a big difference - for the so-called winning side, the cemeteries are decently arranged and for the second not. There was no winner in this war, because they were all losers. We need this marriage because of these last graves. However, in the New Slovenia Group, we fear that the only thing that will finally come out of this law is what cannot be written in the graves of silenced victims and the transfer of the obligation to maintain partisan graves from the congregation to the country, and again that part of our nation, which has been repeatedly deceived, will be deceived once again. Therefore, in our opinion, we should leave it to our family to decide for themselves because they have suffered too much humiliation and intimidation so far. The War Cemetery Act is now under second treatment. The basic text, which was presented at the first reading of February 2000, was by the current government, which, in a rather similar capacity as it was, submitted more than 30 amendments, as it suddenly found that the text was highly discriminatory towards those to whom the law was intended in the first place, i.e. victims who had no right to grave until 1990. People are wondering where this sudden and radical twist came from. The proposed government amendments actually improve the previous completely unacceptable text, but still some graves do not solve or regulate them in a way that is not in accordance with the historical facts, the concept of war, revolutions, piettes and international standards on military graves. The current desire of the forces of continuity is to erase from history the notion of revolution and all that is related to it, and to preserve only NOB, although the revolution has magnified and forged many myths for decades, so that even NOB is in its shadow. Now he wants to fool people again with some other explanation and misinterpretation. It makes fun of all the postwar generations that have instigated their history. If we look at the textbooks that taught my generation, we find revolution everywhere. And it's in a variety of memorabilia, heroism, Leninism, Marxism, revolutionary progress, the dictatorship of proletariat, the masses of victims and so on. Your Honor! Not only was it a revolution. It was also unconditionally proclaimed, and even more, magnified. This was done by the communist authorities back in the '80s. We have a monument to magnifying the revolution even before the Slovenian Parliament. In recent times, however, it seems as if the forces of the Continuity have hit the lightning from the bright and started to spin a new story in which there is no revolution and only war remains. In doing so, they went so far that the last, 8th edition of the documents of the war does not bear the name "Documents of the People's Revolution" [[I also drew some data from this material]] , as previously ordered by seven Houses, the "Documents of Organs and Organisations of National Liberation Movement" ; therefore, seven Houses previously, now one another. What a treachery and a turning of history to a new one! In Novi Slovenija we are amazed at this diversion, and especially the younger generation, which knows very little about real events and is misled. The representative of the Union of Fighters said that the revolution was, with all the positive and negative consequences, and therefore agrees that the graves were marked "victims of war and revolution". We wonder how long it will take to maintain such an attitude. Why is the concept of revolution irrelevant in the grave marriage? For the first time, because it is not possible for victims killed after the war to be identified as victims of the war by 1950 or later. This would be a reversal of notorious facts and truth, since the war ended with us on 15.5.1945. Therefore, we would have encountered in implementing the law the insurmountable difficulties in arranging the graves of those victims who were killed after the war. We would also be unworthy of ourselves and of others. It would probably be more appropriate for the victims after the war to be the victim of totalitarian power, since after the war the revolution was more or less concluded, irrespective of the statements made by more prominent theorists and practitioners of the construction of socialism and communism about the never-ending revolution. However, the introduction of this term is not necessary for the purpose of this Act. The monument Hribar, in a scientific and just approach, claims that the victims of the revolution should therefore also be recognized. In fact, it relativizes the communist revolution as something neutral, which shows that we have not yet matured in Slovenia to condemn communism and some would like to give it a human face, despite the fact that it is the most criminal ideology that has been born in human history and claimed about 100 million victims. Although Nazism was claimed against communism, under the terms "only" 25 million victims, it is also a criminal system, regardless of Germany's rescue of the economic crisis. Killing people cannot justify the objectives of economic progress or anything else. The undeniable fact is that there was a revolution in our country, which in particular had no connection in the initial period with the direct war events of the occupying forces. In one part it coincided with the time of the war, and in the work it continued after it. During the war, the revolution required many victims who could not be placed, not as victims of war, but as victims of war, there were precise definitions, and not as ordinary everyday deaths during the war, which were certainly justified by the grave and the necessary arrangements. It is certainly not appropriate to define for the victims of the war the communist killings of civilians, including many women and children, or those who were killed because they were either too rich family members of merchants, large farmers, educated people, priests or nuns, as Kardelj, the key founder and leader of the revolution in Slovenia, expressed in the context of Bolshevik terminology. Given that it will sometimes be difficult to separate the victims of war and revolution during the duration of the war, a proposal has been made by New Slovenia to mark the use of both concepts, which will ensure unnecessary complications and credibility. The monument must reflect the fifth to the dead, no matter which side the victims fell on, and also a clear message of what caused the woes, which should warn the generations that something like this would never happen again. That's why [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] He also wrote such a message. [[...]] We do not write inscriptions on the graves of the dead or the fallen that would offend the victims in any way. Similar arrangements exist in other countries, for example in Germany, where on graves killed by the German army you usually have "victims of Nazism". Although the victims of the war were also victims, the Germans never opposed such definitions, for the German nation in a dignified way carried out its tragic work of Nazi history without misdirection and relativization. Unfortunately, Slovenia has not yet. Slovenia has not yet condemned communism and revolution, and some would like to give it a human face in any way. Whether the revolution was with us or not, you know it. With all these mountains of textbooks of original documents, and not least of the victims, it is notable that there was a revolution with us, and this is very cruel, which was fueled by the communists by the models and behaviour they received from the Bolshevik Soviet Union, with a clear goal of being violently entangled in power. Everyone who fomented the revolution knew what the Slovenian nation was doing before the war. The events in Russia were known to our people, especially because they went to the time of human suffering under the occupation of Germans, Italians and Hungarians. The Dolomite declaration of 1 March 1943 clearly confirms that the Slovenian Communists were loyal to the Bolshevik position. It is written that the Liberation Front will build an advanced society based on the example of the Soviets. Note: Initially, Slovenian communists said that Slovenia would be only one of the Soviet republics. This is what Kidric sang after Italian capitulation, according to Dedeier. Colleagues and colleagues! I hope you haven't forgotten what we were learning in the school on the revolution, about the avant-garde role of the Communist Party and other historical facts. Whatever the case, the objective of communism was undoubtedly written down and carried out: the establishment of a proletariat dictatorship, for which the communists adhered to the maquialistic principle that all means were allowed to achieve the objectives. That is why lies, deception, and physical and mental violence were used. In doing so, let me mention Lenin's principle, which says he's not a good communist who doesn't understand that there's something to brag about today and there's something to be done tomorrow. In the history of the CAP [[b]] - Yes, we read from the Allied Communist Party of Bolsheviks that Stalin said at the Second Soviet Congress, among other things, "We are Communists of special metal, we are made from special materials." Therefore, we are not surprised if such acts were performed. Let us mention the third KPS conference on 30 June in Trieste [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u157	Mr Drobnic, I forgive you for interrupting you, but your debate is much wider than the content of the law itself. And in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to remind you to limit the debate to the content of the law. Thank you for paying attention to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u158	Mr. President, allow me to object. I hereby justify the concept, title and justification of the amendments tabled by the Members of the Nova Slovenije Group and the Socialist Party in the adoption process. This is an argument as to why it is necessary to introduce this. Apparently, some people don't know this, so this thing is justified. In his contribution to the New Journal of October/November 2001, under the title Unhappy Nation, Dr. Tina Hribar wrote, inter alia, that the foundation of the Communist Authority has been revolutionary violence since the beginning and that the Communist Party of Slovenia, under the auspices of the KPJ, has been strengthened by crime, with the original cause of Slovenian trauma, these unhealed wounds and thus the disaster of the Slovenian people. Dr. Hribar continues: "The Party lied knowingly. They thought lies were more useful than the truth. The fact that the first generation was not capable of true cleansing means that they placed all the burden on their children and children. The truth comes on a day, day in and day out. And because the crime is too great, it is impossible to say sin is said, but the sinner is not. Therefore, the names of the victims will also have to be published, even after their death. Who are these criminals? It's the Communist Party's fault. Who were then the leading parties and the executives? The leading party was Edward Kardelj, who, although perhaps doing Tito's or Stalin's will, was also the most guilty of the crime. We're going to have to get used to the fact that a national hero can be a criminal at the same time or that a criminal could also be a national hero." [[End of quote.]] And what about the revolution? Tone Ferenc in the book "Human Power in Slovenia". We quote: "One of the main causes of unjustified executions was also the mistaken notion of revolution as the physical extermination of capitalists, without being able to manifest cooperation with the occupying party or the operation of the NOB. Also about this, Kardelj wrote to Ivan Fisher: "We have more and more cases [[.... ……]] That they shut down briefly or even shot our allies, that I don't even talk about other different factories and rich people. We've already jumped to the second stage of the revolution. It's just that it's very damaging to the width of our action." [[End of quote.]] And then he goes on to say: "Most of them hardly think of it as a liberation war, but a revolution. Union of Socialist Soviet Republics and Stalin. There were instances when the partisans publicly executed a great respectable farmer who had no cooperation with the occupier or opposition of the NOB." [[End of quote.]] What will be written on the tombstone of such victims, we wonder. Slovenian revolutionaries led a revolution based on Russian Bolshevism, the one they were learning from. This shows the conceptual vocabulary of the leaders of Cardel, Kidric and others. This was also discussed at the party council in Cink in 1942. Kidric states: "If we do not skip the stage, we will achieve that the Soviet Union declares worldwide that this is a war for the Sovietization of the world. It will be followed by the Fascist Front, the neutralization of England and America. The development of these elements of the democratic revolution, on the other hand, is not as far away as we are. The White Guard had to come. It is clear, and it follows from this that there must be a white guard, a fist and everyone who smells like today. This is the natural law of class dynamics at the rate of development. A Communist who can shoot like a man without the slightest sense of purpose." End of quote. Then you wonder if the revolution was with us and if the victims were revolutions? As we can see, it was a revolution, it was fueled by communists in Stalinistic patterns and in a bloody way. Therefore, these crimes against humanity cannot be imposed on German, Italian or Hungarian invaders in general if they have not done so. Therefore, these persons are not victims of war, but are certainly entitled to a grave by the State, since they were banned until 1990 and did not allow it after that date. It is Kardel's letter, the Cats with the instruction, the Fathers of the Spirit, that you shoot everything, as well as the officers, intellectuals and so on, and especially the Towers and Tower Sons, that shows that it was not a war against the invader and his helpers, but a clear example of the revolution, because then the Command should be called to fight the aggressor or those who support it, not the individual social strata, which is significant for the Bolshevik Revolution. It is precisely such documents of war that show the true, credible image of war, especially revolution. Interestingly, communism and Nazis have chosen to eliminate quite the same social group. Vladimir Dedijer wrote in the second book of Titus' biography: "The occupying powers first hit intellectuals, professors, teachers, economists and Catholic priests." Otherwise, it has long been known that both totalitarian systems, communism and Nazism, are two faces of the same ideology. Particular attention should be paid to the creation and functioning of the Security and Intelligence Service, which has been organised to lead a revolutionary policy and action. Indeed, some of the victims, who will also have to be provided with burial sites, fell in the beginning of the war, for which the VOS was primarily responsible. From a Contribution to Recent History [[This is Ferenc's 1997 paper.]] We can understand. [[Quote]] : "In the middle of August 1941, Kardelj, without any knowledge of the Executive Committee of the Liberation Front, which was the highest operational political body of the Liberation Front, established from the most loyal communist staff the Security and Intelligence Service. [[VOS]] , intended to fight against the occupier, as well as against the collaborators of the Slovenian nation. The VOS was first subordinated only to the organisational secretary of the CK KPS for some time." [[End of quote.]] It was run by a special commission, which, according to its criteria, determined who the invaders, co-workers and national traitors were and judged them. The VOS 1941-1944 Code of Development and Functioning Documents [[.... ……]] : "The organisation of the VOS, as originally called, was entrusted to the Ljubljana Communists, Zdenki Kidrič Mariti and Franc Ravbar Vitez at a special meeting on 15 August 1941. Marjeta started organizing an intelligence service, and the Knight began to organize a security service. The VOS was one of the weapons of national liberation and revolution, and its activity was an integral part of the fighting and revolutionary strategy and strategy necessary to successfully manage revolutionary policy and action." [[End of quote.]] There is no need to lose words about the functioning of VOS. If you look at the statistics killed by VOS, you find that the invader was only a symbolic opponent, and even an ally at some point, and the real opponents were prominent Slovenians who took important positions or were representatives of more important layers, mayors, priests, industrialists, intellectuals. These persons were a key target of the destruction of VOS. Clearly, in 1941 there were neither village guards nor white guards nor patriots. There is no secret that the Communist Party has fully subordinated the OF for its revolutionary purposes and monopolized the armed struggle against the invader, which is also symbolic of the number of victims on the occupying party's side. A letter from Kardel Tito, a document of the People's Revolution, says: "We have here a decree OF that anyone who attempts to establish armed formations in addition to the partisans will be shot." [[End of quote.]] Flight OF from the first half of July 1942 to the civilian population, which according to the dictates of Kardelj, reports [[Quote]] : "We warn those who cooperate with the White Guard that without mercy we will beat them to the last, as well as their families, and completely destroy them economically, without prior notice". What's it gonna say on these victims' graves? The letter from Kardel Tito dated 23 April 1942 mentions [[Quote]] : "The GPU works perfectly. In the city of Ljubljana itself, the number of murdered informants has risen over 40 since the beginning of April. Sometimes in one day they fall six." Note: The National Political Administration is the Soviet National Political Police, which operated under this name until 1934 and then was the NKVD, the "National Commissioner for Internal Affairs" until 1946. Let us take a look at some examples of such conspiracial rapid liquidations, which will also require the setting up of graves. Professor Erlich, who was murdered on 26 May 1942 in front of the People's Kitchen and attended, among other things, the Paris Conferences after World War I, worked hard to join Koroška in Slovenia or Yugoslavia. Later, he was also an advocate of a united and independent Slovenia, which some were not willing to do, so they defiled his grave and dug it up. According to some sources, the remains of the grave are known to have been taken on the road route Ljubljana - Vrhnika. We also have the case of the killing of two beggars in Tomišlje near Ljubljana. See what it says, I also have a concrete document: "Days 14.6.1942 were arrested in Tomišlje Satler Ivan, born 15.8.68, Zgornja Šiška Ljubljana, Svac Reza, born 15.8.82, Dravlje, Ljubljana. Because they acted suspiciously and went from place to place and begged, as they themselves stated, it was clear that they had also stolen. They were exterminated the same day. Death of fascism, freedom of the people." So it is not just some opponents or opponents of the revolution, but simple people from social strata. A similar example applies to the French Ants of Žirovsky and then the Mira Lampret case, a document which I also have the original. "The oral orders of the commander of the third group of squads of Bračič you must..." I'm sorry. Mira Lampret, I quote: "Commander of the First Battalion of Ljuba Shercer, Crimean Squad, July 5, 1942. Mira Lampret, born Roseman lived in Ljubljana. She was born on Iga, where her mother lived. After telling people, she was very nice. She had two little girls, two and four years old. Since there was a shortage of food during the war, she and her daughter went to her mother for food. This is where the partisans arrested her. You're going to be a spy. She and her daughter were taken to a subcriminal village, locked in a barn where she was raped in front of her daughter. Since the daughter was crying, one of the partisans, who was well-known by the locals, grabbed her feet and hit a nearby tree." They can say that to the locals today. The document I have says that under the slogan "death of fascism, freedom of the nation" they carried out this act. Rado Hribar is one of the most on Sunday, 16.1. in 2000: "Rado Hribar, one of the most powerful and influential Slovenians in both wars. [[...]] He was the owner of the Strmol Castle, the first private owner of the plane and the Sumi candy factory. As such, he went on his nerves to some Vosovci and was tortured and killed with his wife Ksenija on 4 January 1944 in a forest in Mavča near Predvor. Crime was justified by an excuse to cooperate with Germans and patriots, but in fact to cooperate with the partisans." What kind of monument will the State place on these victims? An interesting document, a report dated 16 May 1942 written by Leskošek to the Central Committee of the Communist Party of Yugoslavia. I quote: "The first group is the so-called white guard, because the village guards were formed only in July 1942, the second middle. The ratio of OF to both groups of domestic reactions is as follows. We're shooting the White Guard, and now we're going to execute an extermination of a larger scale that is already on its way to extinction. In the middle, we find out in a political way. With the help of the workers among Catholics in the OF, we defeated the resistance of the Catholic group against liquidation." [[End of statement.]] In the same collection of documents we find a sentence, I quote how OF actually eliminated all bourgeois customers in Slovenia. Human Revolution Document No. 1, page 331. Where, for God's sake, was this white guard on May 42 that the Communists were talking about in the documents? Except in communist and, of course, in Bolshevik Russia, we can't find her. Kardelj writes in his letter that the white guard must be destroyed, most definitely, there is no doubt, but now it is imperative to watch over whom he accuses himself of the white guard. KIDRIČ in the 1942 report CK KPJ explains what a white guard is and says that "in fact this name is for a clerical publishing reaction. He goes on to say in his report that ours were exaggerating about the liquidations. This was carried out in particular in the partisan units where the torture of suspicious civilians was carried out. Things have come to the public and have helped quite a bit the real white guard." [[End of story.]] Apparently, there is an unrealistic and real white guard, although they have eliminated one and the other in line with their revolutionary needs. Letter from Kardelj Rybar on July 25, 192: "All the phenomena you are talking about in relation to Herzegovina and Montenegro have also appeared in the miniature in our country. Especially is there a great deal of sectarian attitudes towards allies. They continue to exaggerate the killing of the white guard, and this is simply about people who may not have to be classified in this category of enemies. There are even cases of gross torture of some people. Often the party was the initiators of such things; I would say many things to you orally. They easily built whole towns in the woods from the barracks, ran electricity and telephones, set up lots of escorts and various women of suspicious character." [[End of story.]] Documents of the Human Revolution No. 2, the second book in the Cink consultation states: "It is not enough that we need a white guard physically, it must be politically exposed" and further states: "cleanse the free territory of the internal enemies of the Slovenian people in order to destroy the white guard. It is important to ensure that revolutionary sharpness prevails." [[End of quote.]] Comrade Vojka, Ivan Nemec says clearly and boldly [[Quote]] "This is the so-called inner front, which is a thousand times more important than the eastern front, so we must kill the white guard, which is the fruit of ourselves." [[End of story.]] This last quote is actually what we're saying is that the speaker hit a nail on the head. I did construct the White Guard by Communism, which is actually a revolutionary projection, and I also liquidated it. Sadly, many innocent victims were behind this. Surely this is not the way the VOS, partisans and communists were operated by people who had already suffered occupier terror. This was particularly true in the rural and rural areas of Dolenjska and Notranjska, which were occupied by Italians, who were particularly concerned about the order and safety of people, and the response of self-government, self-defence against such brutal acts, which took place mainly at night. That's why the village guards began, in early June 1942, as a resistance to communist revolutionary terror over people. Besides, God's Repe in history for IV. He's a high school student. [[.... ……]] : "Everywhere in the province of Ljubljana, village guards or anti-communist militia, as the Italians called it, began to form, while partisans called them white guards, following Russian Bolsheviks. At the end of 1942, there were 71 village guards with more than 4,500 soldiers, and in mid - May there were over 6,000. The growth of the village guards also encouraged the treatment OF, the grave attitude towards the population, the unjustifiable executions, the declaration of people as belogardists as an excuse for the forcible seizure of food and other property, the administration of the individual guerrilla commanders who voluntarily decided on life and death in their territory." [[End of story.]] Let's see a few more quotations from the Human Revolution Documents, another book, a record of a party conference that was held in Kočevska Rog on Cink. Urban Velikinja, Marjan Dermastja, commander of the 5th squad says [[.... ……]] "I think there's a lot of debate about the white guard. The wisest thing is not to debate. This is our political opponent, we have to destroy it. There's no need to say whether we're guilty of having a white guard. As soon as we get someone working for the white guard, we need to shoot him. That we have taken this right in Dolenjska is most documented by the fact that newspapers write long articles and call us bloodbaths." [[End of quote.]] A similar opinion was expressed by Comrade Rudi, Viktor Avbelj, of the New Town District, who declared: [[Quote]] "As far as the white guard is concerned, we didn't give up. That's why we were told that we were bloodbaths, so the OEF allies complained to the Executive Committee of the Liberation Front." So, apparently, the revolutionaries liked to wind up, there was blood running around us all on average, and there was a revolution going on. Let us take a look at some of the contributions made by some of the participants in this meeting. Stane Kavčič Juro says [[.... ……]] "The fault of the Notranj people is in themselves that they have a white guard, as Comrade Ante said. Then it's the mistake of all Slovenians to have it. If we act so hard, it's gonna happen that we're gonna have to shoot the whole village." [[End of story.]] Jožet Borštnar from the Belokranj district was apparently very nervous by the cooperating party with the allies of the Communist Party, OF, as he declares: "These allies are the majority to intervene in any liquidation. Now they have become the most engrossed clerics of Christian socialists. I think we need to be careful with the Christian socialists, because we tie the bar to our feet." Surely this council was a good incentive for even more acute and brutal revolutionary killing. Vlado Krivic also developed a very early propensity for the liquidation of people, as in a letter written by Kardel in September 1942, he says: "I think I gave VOS the right initiative during this time. There should always be an opportunity to convince the public immediately of the urgent need for liquidation." Let us add that Vlado Krivic continued his initiative even after the war on the criminal convictions of innocent people. And no one said to Shilih, saying, I have come to the land which I did not know. We got about 300 hits. Among the locals, there were field workers, if they were belogardists. This latter statement shows that some Communists simply lost their heads as to who should be eliminated. The lists included a variety of disruptive layers defined by their own wishes and current needs, including those who supported the partisan fight." Let's see what Kardelj writes in his report to the CK Secretary of KPS Leskošku in Dolomite: "These days I finally learned why they eliminated Mother's brother-in-law and sister-in-law. My sister only followed my husband because she was afraid of him. That's how they both got to the Partisan camp. There they had nothing to report, and then they were slightly liquidated because they were afraid that they would not betray their hiding place if they had let them go." The sources also speak of the liberation of internationals from the Verd train at Borovnica, carried out by the partisans. About 300 of them decided to move out of battalions. Interns could choose to leave, i.e. enter the partisan species, leave the liberation territory or enter the labour battalion. The book National Liberation War in Slovenia on page 276 says that some 40 rescuers were satisfied with the desire to return to their homes, but these people did not come home. This liberating has come to an end. About a group of 12 people, I have this document: "At the oral order of the commander of the 3rd group of Brač squads, you must liquidate the 12 interns we rescued from the prisoner train within 24 hours. Do the liquidation in secret, make sure that nothing gets out of it and that someone doesn't escape you. You are personally responsible for the execution of this order." These are so-called Crimean victims, for whom an appropriate monument will also have to be arranged. So what kind of monument will the country place on these victims? The executions took place largely in Dolenjska, including in my place where several families were killed. These things were not unusual if we carefully read the leaflet that she gave to the public OF in the first half of July 42, to the civilian population; I have already mentioned this. If you consider the easy definition of who the white guard is, anyone on the liquidation list, including the one who even supported the partisans. The executions also took place in such a way that the political commissioners of the partisan units did not even know about it. Dr. Ferenc states [[Quote]] : "As if there were another evil, the killings of entire families, including minors, Roma groups or inappropriate means of execution have also been added to unjustifiable executions. Some units have killed whole families with children. Such cases were in a needy area where Communist partisans punished traitors by killing their family members along with them. Franca Kolenca with a wife and a four-year-old daughter in the village of Bruni, and so on, not to mention, with children." [[End of story.]] Other cases are known in a horrendous way of killing families. Let's just say, the Cossack family with two children in Zapotok near Sodražica and the Mavsar family from Praporč. The members of Mavsar’s family were tied together on Christmas in 1942 and tortured in the barn all day long, and then half alive in the fire. Father, mother and five children burned, including Darko Mavsar, a well-known athlete and Balkan spear champion. Seven christenings were followed by the remaining 12-year-old son, who was shot by a communist in three months. Then they killed Dolfi Mavsar and finally immediately after the war in the Horn another ten members of the family. What kind of monument will the State place on these victims? Many times it happened that the charges were false and that in this way they killed entire families, even those who supported the partisans. In order to cover up such crimes, the white guards, who had nothing to do with it, put an end to it. The procedure in the administrative unit of Kočevje has been ongoing recently, i.e. such a procedure. Special attention should be paid to the mass massacres of Roma families, such as Iška pri Igo, Kanjiarica and Roma families, such as those in Podmolnik village near Ljubljana, where it is known that two of the killers are still alive. The known killings of a large number of Roma in Sodražica, including women and children, have been horrendous and horrendous in the area of Sodražica, and they have no idea why they killed these innocent victims. The cemetery isn't set up right now. It's got animal waste on it. The killings of Roma are also reported by historian Ferenc, who in his book on the mistakes of the partisan struggle, cited the killing of 56 Roma by the Schercer Battalion in 1942. Similarly, in the White landscape, in the Romani settlement of Kanjiarica, where a group of Belarusian partisans took and killed 61 Roma. That's what Ferenc says. So what kind of monument will the country place on these Roma victims? Interestingly, this torture of those who carried it out did not prevent them from doing so, but because people would not do it because they would then cast a bad light on the fight, the partisan struggle. The duplicity that she doesn't look like a couple. That is why the idea of improving the liquidation became stronger for Comrade Franz Popit Jokl. I quote the Human Revolution Papers 2: "With regard to liquidations, it happens that the parties themselves are going to liquidate, but I think it would be a good idea to organise special liquidator cells for conspiracy. In the presence of the partisans, they're telling us what they're going to liquidate. It's the same as saying it in the village. How can a party that is known as a liquidator act in front of a nation?" Kardelj writes in his letter in 1942: "Just as our people have been telling these days that they were in the Dolomite Squad, that is, in front of Ljubljana, before they killed people with wheels. This can't really be tolerated." [[End of quote.]] However, this is not unusual, for he himself demanded that this be done secretly and not by shooting. In the same letter, Kardelj says: "Give a strict and confidential order that the prosecution is executed only by firing, but in such cases where no shooting is allowed, because of the enemy's proximity in such a way as to result in immediate death." In the book Tomšič's brigade, published by France Strle, says: "All our revolution is full of evidence that a fighter with a good and just commander is able to withstand even the impossible. But it's different if you're afraid of him as an enemy. Two fighters fled from the brigade to another unit saying, "We're running from these bloodhounds." End of story.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u159	I'm sorry to interrupt again. I would like to ask you whether you think it would make sense today to conclude or continue your presentation of the New Slovenia Group's position or position tomorrow. Because the time will be 19:00 and at 19:00 we usually finish, and we ask for your opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u160	Thank you so much for the heads-up. Since time has run out for the session or it will be in one minute, I suggest we stop this from happening, and I will continue with some detail at tomorrow's session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Then I would count now that we have interrupted this point and continue tomorrow at 2 p.m. with telecommunications, as we have predicted. Then we proceed on the agenda, with this point. Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u162	Tomorrow at 2 p.m., I will inform the National Assembly about some things, and the leaders of the parliamentary groups have notified them about the government and its proposal to move the NATO and referendum points from this meeting. Tomorrow we will consult with the competent working bodies at 9 a.m. and at 2 p.m. I will notify the National Assembly of the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-15-SDZ3-Izredna-19.ana.u163	Thank you. So, tomorrow at 2 p.m.
