ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u1	I am opening the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I would like to inform you which colleagues and colleagues are unable to attend today's meeting due to other obligations. These are colleagues Barovich, Celigoy, Diaci, mag. Kramberger will not be with us after 3 p.m., otherwise we will not have a colleague of Partljič and a colleague of Peterlet. I also invited Dr. Janez Drnovšek to the meeting of the National Assembly on the 1st item of the agenda and other representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. When they get here, I'm going to give them all a warm welcome on our behalf. Colleagues and colleagues, please note, we are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 23rd extraordinary meeting. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 58 of the Rules of Procedure and has been received by reference to 3.12. of this year. May I ask your distinguished colleagues and colleagues for peace in the hall? Thank you. I did not receive any proposals for an extension of the agenda within the time limit. That is why we will move on to a decision on the agenda, and I note that there is no single parliamentary group and that is why we are not concluding. Please, colleagues and colleagues, come to the hall. At 1300 hours, the National Assembly began the meeting, as it had been convened. We always stick closely to the hours when the meeting is convened, and so is today. Please, colleagues and colleagues, come to the hall, because we need to vote on the agenda. I have not been informed that the Liberal Democracy Club has any other obligation. I'm asking them to come to the hall. I want to keep working. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Colleagues, we started the meeting at 1:00. I'm asking those who come in later not to disturb the work. I propose to the Assembly that we set the agenda for today's meeting, which you have received with reference. We're voting. 59 present. 44 for and 3 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the agenda of the 23rd Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly is set. Dear colleagues, we are moving on to 1. At the end of the day, this is at the notice of Dr. Janez Drnovska's resignation from the function of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Rule 261 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, on Monday 2 December this year, the Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, informed me that, pursuant to Article 12 of the Government Act, he resigned from his office as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia. Between us, Drnovšek, I welcome him and invite him if he wants to explain his resignation to the speaker stage. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The reason for my resignation is known. In particular, I would like to say a few words of gratitude to you for your participation in the National Assembly so far. In more than 10 years I led four Slovenian governments, and was also appointed four times in this National Assembly for the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister. Together we laid the foundations of this country, passed through a rather complicated period. The government has proposed, you have adopted, hundreds of laws that form the basis of the legal order of Slovenia. We have solved problems, open issues in all areas, from economy, security, defence, culture, education. In all areas, we have tried to do as much as possible. I am sure that all of us, just like all those in this national assembly, sincerely want to do our best for our country, Slovenia and Slovenia. There are many questions that are always open, and never a task is done to the end. Life just keeps going. And they're always asking, there's new questions, and there's new solutions. We need to find new answers, build up previous ones. However, I think we have only established good foundations for such advance development, including sufficient constructive cooperation. I therefore thank all, of course, I could say, the positions, as well as the opposition, because we knew, especially when it comes to country-specific issues, to find a common language and also to overcome many differences, the political differences that are normal between us. Otherwise, of course, it cannot be in a democratic system. However, when it comes to the fundamental interests of the country, we were able to come together and consult and find the best possible solutions. I hope and I'm sure it will be the same in the future. Also in my new function, within the framework of constitutional powers and constitutional position, I will try to ensure that the development of Slovenia continues to be as successful as possible, so that there will be as little tension as possible, as positive and as creative an atmosphere as possible. Slovenia is entering a new period. We are about to become members, both of the European Union and of NATO. This will further strengthen us in the world, sitting at the table together with other European and other countries on an equal footing. We will have a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity that Slovenia has never had in history to cooperate with other nations, countries in building a future Europe and the world, and to cooperate directly with our proposals, views, initiatives. Of course, it will depend on us to a large extent on our success. We will, of course, have to be creative, quality and thus our contribution will be greater, both in Europe and in the world. Of course, we will solve through the tasks and objectives of living together in Europe the primary life in Slovenia. In a peaceful, connected Europe, we can also ensure the best possible life for all Slovenians. At times, from the beginning, we had to solve the priority issues first, and some had to wait a little longer to establish the foundations of our country. Now that the foundation is laid, when the house is built, we can move on to all the details in this country and arrange our life together in the best possible way that this house will be as friendly as possible for all Slovenes and Slovenes. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I would like to wish to continue to work successfully in the National Assembly when I resign from my office as Prime Minister. You've got some tough assignments ahead of you. However, with commitment, I am sure that you will be able to do so and that together we will ensure that Slovenia continues to have a successful development and a better life. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u3	Dear colleagues and colleagues! The National Assembly, in accordance with Article 115 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, notes that Dr. Janez Drnovšk, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, has ceased to serve as Prime Minister and thus all ministers. The Prime Minister and ministers shall carry out ongoing operations pending the election of the new Prime Minister and the appointment of new ministers. Dr. Janez Drnovšek, ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the National Assembly, allow me to thank you and your colleagues for the work they have done and wish you all the best on the following routes. Thank you very much. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]] This concludes the agenda item. The National Assembly may move to interrupted 2. On the eve of the day, this is on the defence motion for a ruling on the schedule of the previous legislative referendum on the draft law on the recasting and privatisation of the public undertaking of Slovenian railway D. D. For a moment, we will wait for the hall to calm down and proceed with the decision. At its 20th meeting, on 29 November this year, the National Assembly found that the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the public undertaking Slovenske železnice d.d., the referendum issue was not clear and called on investors to clearly define the referendum issue. By letter of 2 December 2002, applicants sent a revised referendum question, which was also addressed by the Infrastructure and Environment Committee yesterday. You received the committee's report on the bench, and I ask the president, colleague Janz, whether he wants a word. He says no. So now we can go to the debate on the corrected referendum question and ask, does anyone want a word before deciding? Please, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u4	Thank you very much. When deciding on this issue at the last meeting, I also explained my concerns about why I doubt the clarity of the issue and why I will abstain from voting on this issue or the subsequent vote. Once again, I stress that the rules require us to vote in favour of the referendum, because, after all, if we understand the clarity of the issue in the narrow sense of the word, we are bound by such rules. I appeal to this and thus say that my decision is no different this time. I appeal to the fact that, with the clarity of such a question, we should include a slightly more extensive understanding. Of course it's not that. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u5	Peace in the hall. I'm asking for peace in the hall, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u6	I underestimate citizens and citizens. [[...]] It is not that I underestimate citizens and citizens when they face this issue or that I question their ability to think, to understand the issue correctly on the basis of such a question. However, I would like to recall the following: In asking, articulating this question happened quite something, after my presentation, of cosmetic corrections. The first correction took place at a time when the legal service of the National Assembly was somewhat clearer in articulating or regulating the issue. The second adjustment took place at the time - for my understandings, of course, still cosmetic adjustments - when in certain indents some dictions are more, I am not talking about clear, but more cosmetically arranged in this sense that words have been thrown out as "still, with this, completely" and so on. This has not changed the actual possibilities of understanding this issue. The amendments that we have voted on or voted on at the previous meeting on this issue have, of course, also resulted in some adjustments that have already been made to the articulation, but not to an additional explanation. In the current corrections we have just now before each other, there has been only one correction of my understanding, and this has changed in the last two, for the last two, for the last two indents, to which the National Assembly specifically warned in the decision, in the sense that the "textual set" of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has changed into that passive "trust" we must, in the sense that the word "Government of the Republic of Slovenia" has only withdrawn into another dictatorship. This is said to be the current indents by "providing long-term systemic financing to the public undertaking of the Slovenian Railway" et cetera, not by "the Government of the Republic of Slovenia provides". [[...]] I do not see any significant changes in this, so I repeat that I think that citizens and citizens will be placed in a very complex situation where they will have to read the bill again, which I believe is not read by everyone in the National Assembly. I think that if the referendum is adopted, or if its outcome is positive, all alternatives and options that could be developed, awarded and coordinated will continue to be accepted, and if the outcome is positive, all alternatives and options that could be developed, developed and coordinated will be concrete and more flexible for the government, with additional possibilities for study. In this context, I reiterate that if the frameworks allow me, the frameworks do not allow me to be against, legal frameworks, those who are committed to a very narrow understanding of the word on a clearly raised issue, but my conscience requires me to abstain from this proposal because I believe that it will be very difficult and to a large extent unclear to decide on such a matter.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u7	Comrade Sok, behind him is colleague of Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Mr President, fellow Members and Members. In our Group of Members, we will support this decree and there is no question for us. After all, what is before us today is supported by 65,000 Slovenian and Slovenian signatures. However, as regards the issue of clarity, we might ask ourselves in this National Assembly whether then our citizens and citizens understand the clarity of the laws adopted by this Parliament and, however, when published in the Official Journal, are applicable to all. Now is the time to explain these issues to citizens and citizens thoroughly by 19 January, by the referendum. But in fact, it's just one dilemma. For just one question, whether Slovenian railways should be owned at all, if they are to be owned, or should be owned as a comprehensive, unified system, or as the government had foreseen, by a rapid procedure to divide the Slovenian railways into 3 companies, then to own what is valuable, while the rest, especially passenger transport and investment in infrastructure, remained at the burden of the State, is said to be the burden of taxpayers. You can trust me that our citizens and citizens will understand this very well and will know what is actually meant and what is involved. If the government, when it came to Parliament with its proposal for a law, was prepared by trade unions, with employees and also a wider debate on this issue, it would not be necessary, in our opinion, for a referendum would not be necessary, since we are confident that trade unions and the government would agree. That's what the unions wanted, but the government didn't want to hear it. And that's our insight to the government. Now, of course, we will go to the referendum and spend about 600 million Slovenian tolars because the government did not want to talk. That's the way it is. I'm afraid so. Also in the opposition, we demanded that the government listen to these comments, however, to study the solutions thoroughly in other European countries. It wasn't all done. And all of this wasn't meant to be done. Now there's a referendum ahead of us. We will, of course, support this decree. However, as the opposition party, we will make a thorough effort to inform people of what this referendum brings and what it stands for. It is, and it seems, that we will have two referendums, including a referendum on the return of investments for the development of telephony, because the government also did not want to hear the arguments in this national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Comrade Kelemin, behind you comrade Kremjar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! If I can say a word on behalf of the Social Democratic Party Group, then it certainly means that we will support this referendum issue, although I must say at this point that both the coalition and apparently the authorities have forced some solutions that, in my opinion, change a lot, which was originally meant by this proposal. Indeed, there are no reasons, that is a fact, and we have all certainly convinced ourselves that the existing authority, the government should not be able to effectively rescue Slovenian railways in the last ten years or in the last five years. I don't think there's any reason for that. Why they have not done this together with management to resolve these things in a favourable, efficient way, so that today this system will be prepared and adopted in fact these European challenges that are ahead of us to operate this system today in a profitable, efficient, entrepreneurial marketing spirit. That's a corporate thing today. All the problems that have accumulated are nothing more than the fruit of one good structure, with which the authorities are now trying to blackmail some solutions and impose solutions that will, of course, have long-term negative consequences, I believe, for the country as a whole, mainly for a certain segment of employees in these Slovenian railways. It is they who will feel the greatest difficulties in continuing to implement or implementing state policy in this area. It is not easy to say that this question is quite complicated. This is about intertwining a number of interests, both state, national, public and all sorts of other interests in this area. Maybe the question really can't be easy. The referendum issue for this segment of the resolution of certain Slovenian assets, the economy as such, cannot be easy. That's a fact. But now that you have certain things, in my opinion, tried to clean up, you have done that the essence of the owner of the Slovenian Railways has solved all the responsibilities, all the burdens, all the obligations. The owner of the Slovenian Railways, this is the country, the authority, cancels any liability and any obligation, which is funny, according to the owner, if not even crazy. My personal assessment is that the owner, the authority, based on these solutions that you have now cleared from this referendum issue, will force privatisation as the basis for resolving all the referendum issues that are before us today. This is the final point of this cleansing that you have made, with the help of, of course, the authorities and with the help of the coalition of the National Assembly. That's what's gonna happen. Remember that well. Now, as an understanding Member, I should, in fact, object to this. Unfortunately, I cannot, because I have to let such a referendum question be tested before people as well. I hope, however, that it will be adopted or confirmed, but we will all make a huge, huge effort together to safeguard the fundamental national interests, public interests and interests of employees in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Comrade Kremjar, behind you fellow Tsukati, then -
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u12	Thank you very much. My opinion hasn't changed since the last time we discussed this, I have to say. While I respect and respect the will of the people who have expressed it through signatures, of course I have a few dilemmas that I would like to say. And this dilemma is fundamental. The question is linguistically clear. To claim that it is impossible to understand what we are asking, of course, whether people will be asked, is not true. To be understood, and every human being can understand it. I'm worried he'll explain the answer more. And that's the story I was talking about the last time. For me, of course, the worst outcome of the referendum is one that allows for the possibility of such and different interpretations. Of course, the simplest, most effective answer to the referendum, where people are asked in general, is yes or no. There is something perfectly clear and there is no dilemma. There are no different explanations available, not every matter, political or otherwise can be interpreted as it seems opportunistic at that time. To avoid this, of course, I think that the question is only too demanding because of, of course, the possibilities of different interpretations. I'm deeply convinced you can't write laws at referendums. That's my deep conviction. The law at the referendum can't be written. The law is written and created in a process that ends in the National Assembly. At the referendum, respecting the will of the people, he asks questions about things where people are strongly expressed as such or as a different option. This is the basis of any referendum decision. It's not our invention, and it's not something we should be thinking about. Because I think there are too many things written in this question, too many questions in one question, with the possibility and on the one hand of binding things, which, of course, is no hiding place, because it is perfectly clear that someone wants to commit to something and it is right if those who want to do so want to. Since it will give the result of the referendum, in my deep conviction, the possibilities for a very, very broad explanation, from the government to the railway union, I think that the effect will not be real and will in fact also be for those who will support the referendum, which I have no doubt that, of course, the outcome of this decision will be worse than it would have been if the question were raised much simpler and much more focused and would have a much simpler, much clearer and targeted answer. This, of course, makes it difficult for me to support and maintain the vote. At the same time, of course, I am aware that 62,500 is desirable, and I do not know how many, but people, because such legislation is necessary to respect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u13	Thank you very much, fellow Kremjar. My friend Tuck.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. However, if you have not been able to read that for the first time the referendum issue has been corrected with the aim of being sufficiently clear, already on 25 September this year, when the opinion has been fully taken into account and the requirements of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly have been complied with. Secondly, the applicants corrected the referendum question on 13 November, once again taking full account of the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. And new comments have come in. Again, on 27 November, when taking into account the opinion of the Committee, the proposers took these opinions into account and corrected the text again. And now again, fourthly, at the request of the National Assembly, they have corrected the text. Any justification or argument of a negative attitude towards a referendum with an apology or a reference to the incomprehensibility of the text is unrealistic. I understand that some Members or governments, the ruling coalition, accept such initiatives as unpleasantness. It is true, in this mandate, that there have been so many referendum initiatives in these two years that we have not had in 10 years. The initiatives that have also been successful in collecting 40,000 signatures, as well as the referendums that have succeeded again, show that, in fact, in this composition, this national assembly does not decide at the wishes of the electorate. What's wrong? Whether the government and the law-makers are not able to speak to those who are concerned or deliberately ignore these positions and we are also adopting here in this Assembly of State some laws, some positions, some rules of the game that are not suitable for voters. I believe that this is the issue that would actually need a longer discussion, but in this case, without going into the issue of the law itself, but 62 thousand signatures are a requirement that we must not close our eyes to. I think that there are also various excuses and some imaginary arguments against the negative position are not worth repeating in this national assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u15	Thank you very much. My colleague Malovre, you're with my colleague, Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u16	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As probably the only railway driver in this National Assembly, I will support the referendum, given that I have already pointed out some articles that were later corrected by law, namely Articles 6 and 13 of this Act, which have a significant impact on the transformation and privatisation of the Slovenian Railways. True, then, the marriage was fixed several times or agreedly, but not enough. We have adopted a national programme for the development of Slovenian Railways several times in this National Assembly. Almost every two years since 1994. We made a commitment. It is still difficult for me to think of a verbal match with my colleague, Jožet Školč, on the so-called corridor of the so-called so-called corridor, but this corridor is literally dying, even though we have introduced it into the national programme. If this law had been adopted as it had been intended, all the side lines, from the lower line, then the Koroja, as I mentioned earlier in the Socian corridor, would have been abolished in due course. As a result, these underdeveloped areas would remain even more or become more underdeveloped, and a whole bunch of railway workers would lose their jobs. Although rail traffic took place there for 100 years and even more. The outcome of the referendum itself will provide guidance, both to the government and to the national assembly, on how to take action in the future. That is why I will also support the referendum today in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u17	Thank you very much. I thank all the speakers so far for not being long, yet they are clear in the debates. Comrade Rupar, behind you colleague Pukšič and finally colleague Juri, and I see a few other colleagues ahead. Please, my friend Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. President! First, a few words about today's television show. That's it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u19	This is not the subject of this agenda item.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u20	But I can protest.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u21	You're protesting this against a TV decision. The National Assembly has nothing to do with this. Please don't discuss things that aren't on the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u22	I don't think it's fair that this can't be tolerated. Mr President, this is your task to [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u23	No, it's not mine. We've already cleared this up. Now, within this point, we will certainly not continue this discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u24	Nevertheless, I believe that the leadership of the National Assembly is the one who says whether or not a meeting can be postponed and that each one is tolerable in his or her own way. But he can't do that. That's what I think it is. Not even national television, even though we're throwing crazy money at her. But still, I think it's unfair, anyway, to people who need to be informed about all these debates about the referendum. I now associate this with this debate so that you will not say that I have been "failure" and also to those who are the initiators of this referendum, who are not in the Chamber and should and should hear this debate. But it's okay. Let's just leave it at that. I will personally support this proposal or referendum issue, which I consider to be perfectly clear and entirely correct if we want to understand it. But those who do not want to understand it are, of course, talking about too long of content, as if it were some kind of law, as my colleague Kremjar said, and so on. Why did this referendum initiative come about? First of all, because the employees were concerned about losing their jobs and their jobs and not least the people, more than 60,000 of those who said, after all, why would the state property, like nothing else in the country, simply let go of their property if they thought it was their property. This is indeed the property of all citizens and citizens of this country. And it is true, of course, that people in haste, when signing these signatures, have estimated that it is nevertheless satisfactory and that at least this property can be kept in state ownership or, read, as their property. That's why all these things aren't what you're saying, I don't understand. So it is a disgrace to that Member and Member who is not aware of the Slovenian language and the content of this referendum question. I find this humiliating to those 60,000 people who knew what they were signing. You Members do not understand the Slovenian language. I personally estimate that this is a pretense. And tell me, we're not up for this because it's too binding for the government and too much money will be invested in it. Tell him you don't have the money, he's gone, and the matter will be clear. Transposition, however, is a disgrace to each Member and Member of Parliament. That's right. This proposal is binding, it is already part of the law and it is right to do so. Finally, the people make a law through this referendum saying whether or not you will sell the property. But you're still determined, and I'll tell you a fact. Very confidential sources, thank God I've looked them up and I've also found them, they say that you've already written off the property, marked it, which is for sale, which is for privatisation and, of course, you're there when you thought it would be useful for the LDS, for the government and for these circles that can deal with this property, you've had them recently marked with blue dots. So I'm mainly talking about very large tourist facilities along the Adriatic coast. You had blue dots where you saw interest in not selling it. Now that the second interest is to sell, but you found very much, I will say, the famous great guys in Croatia, especially with the property that is Slovenian, that these capacities, say and write, will be sold or bought by twelve to thirteen thousand euros per apartment up to 50 square metres. That's 35,000 German marks. So, what's going on with this government? Please tell me you have an interest in collecting these capacities yourself, and it will be perfectly clear and there will be no referendum needed and the railways home and it is safe and the matter is over. However, since it is again a matter of privatising those parts of property that are truly profitable, which are at current points all over the former South, but of course now this is over and the matter is incomprehensible, and I consider this again as one of the attempts, I am sure that they will be made to strengthen their assets even more. Of course, as many times as there will be to the government and to all those who do not understand the Slovenian language in this work, it is absolutely important that the unemployed, who will be many, will be five or six thousand, so of course we have others, from institutions, to social services, but all of you write me up for these people. Of course, I say once again that the matter is perfectly clear. If it is the will to examine the people, then vote in favour. Do not pretend that you do not understand the content well and correctly described in your mother's Slovenian language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u25	Thank you very much. My friend Pukšič now has the floor, followed by his colleague Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u26	Thank you very much. I will, of course, support the proposal for a resolution on the call for a previous legislative referendum. There's more than one reason. Surely we are bound by the law and our constitution. Listening to the will of 60,000 people, which has been expressed by giving signatures and conditions for the referendum, is actually a technical task for members of the National Assembly. There is no substantive debate. We were able to talk about the content of the discussion when we talked about the law itself. And it will not be the first time, and not the last time, that we have repeatedly warned the opposition, specifically and even with amendments, that the proposal of such a law is wrong, that we felt that such a law does damage property, that the damage is done in the field of employment and that, of course, the ruling coalition of such well-intentioned warnings did not take into account and later proved by the referendum that we were right, so the ruling coalition must, of course, attribute this responsibility to its shoulders. It would be normal for a person to put his position on a particular matter when he insists on such a vehemently, and then it turns out to be contrary to most people who think in a state-of-the-art way. That's how it happened with the referendum on Zasav. This is likely to be the case with a referendum on telecommunications. Thus, of course, there is now a referendum on railway privatisation. I mean, ten years is more than that. People, over 100,000 unemployed, many young people in a large part of the territory of the Republic of Slovenia have no choice but to train themselves, rather than to obtain employment, of course, are increasingly aware that damage to social property or the place of social property is possible even through the adoption of certain laws. In fact, you have a legal basis for damaging social property. This, of course, also happened to the Moroccan Tama. If other ways were already damage to property, then of course even the penal code is changed and so on, which has also happened in this House. The fact is that if such a law adopted by the ruling coalition were not to be applied if people did not put themselves on the sidelines, that is, in particular, from the area from which I come, the increase in unemployment. Railway workshops for the maintenance of Ptuj vehicles are, of course, destroyed and the matter privatised, sold out and people without jobs. Today, competition clearly takes place with slightly lower prices with only one goal, this part privatises and sees in advance its option and opportunity, where prices can not only double or do more, and then, of course, fill its own pockets at the expense of the state budget as well. Such a case was, after all, dealt with here days ago in the National Assembly, the terrible profits in Elan with the help of state money, of course. So it's definitely about trusting people. But those who, of course, insist on such an abnormal and so abnormal way of owning and damaging social property, just give some thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u27	Two other colleagues have been reported. My colleague Yuri and Peca, I then assume that the National Assembly will proceed to the vote and invite all colleagues and colleagues to come to the Chamber. Please, Comrade Yuri, follow you at last, Comrade Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u28	Thank you, President. I'll get back to what my predecessor said. Our definition and vote today should be a technical exercise, more or less. In doing so, of course, we are also concerned that the decision on the referendum call is properly drafted and contains a question that will be clear to voters and voters. However, Comrade Pukšič escaped or entered a strong substantive debate, as was his colleague Rupar. I won't do it. I will just say that I will vote in favour of the referendum so that I do not agree with what the referendum asks as a question. I do not like my hands being tied to transforming and regulating the status, ownership and other issues of this important sector in a globalizing world that is changing daily. That is why I will also urge my constituents and voters to vote against the issue. But I have no right to prevent this referendum from being signed, so, of course, I will vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u29	My colleague Peca, and then we go to the vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u30	To talk about a sensitive topic, according to the Slovenian National Parties' assessment, these developments in connection with the creation of a referendum issue are already proving. If anyone in this country, after our assessment, has taken responsibility for a possible issue, this is clearly the legal service of the National Assembly, which has repeatedly requested correction from the proposers, and this correction has been maintained by the proponents. We also assess, unfortunately, that is precisely the issue for some in this country. That for us this issue and the area of life in our country is not disputed - that is, for us, I think of the Slovenian National Party - is proof that, according to our assessment, all this debate, devolution and the main role of the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, makes it possible to create the foundations that will later, unfortunately, begin to dig up the clearly expressed will of the citizens in the referendum. We estimate that such an intervention, whether it be the legal services of the National Assembly and the current government policy in our country, is unacceptable. As regards the referendum, the referendum law and the human initiative and the norms set out in the Constitution, they should remain untouchable in this regard. We will support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-04-SDZ3-Izredna-23.ana.u31	There are no more speakers on my list. In this way, if no one is applying for the floor, the National Assembly could proceed to the vote. I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the revised referendum issue under point 2 of the decree. We're voting! We are voting on the revised referendum issue under Point 2 of the decree! I'm at 68. 55 for and no one against. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the corrected referendum issue has been adopted. We are now moving on to a full vote on the motion for a decree. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a resolution on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the public enterprise Slovenske železnice d.d. in full with the corrected referendum question in point 2 and the modification of the date in points 3 and 4. We're voting! We vote on the motion for a decree in full! Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. 72 present. 60 for and no one's against. The vote was 60.) [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 23rd extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The National Assembly will meet again at an extraordinary meeting to address the budget. Until then, everything's fine.
