ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives of the government, have a good day. We begin the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Jože Ašič until 17:00, Franc Čebulj, Vojko Čeligoj, Aurelio Juri from 17:00 on, Jelko Kacin, Leo Kremjar, Franc Lenko, Dorian Marcič, Tone Partljič until 20:00, Pavel Rupar, Stanislava Stopar from 18:00 on, Davorin Terčon from 13:00 on, Villa Trofenik, Janko Weber and Bogomir Vnučec We're moving to 17. Period of the day, it's a second defensive proposal for a law on space management. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of Environment, Space and Energy, Mag. Janez the Dipper, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members, honourable Members, distinguished guests. The proposal for a law on space regulation has now been in the parliamentary procedure for a long time. He was thoroughly considered. I don't think I need to introduce him in more detail. Maybe just a few indents for the intro. Among other things, the draft law clearly limits the competences in the field of space regulation between the State and the municipalities. It introduces a regional spatial planning level, reduces the adoption of spatial acts, enables private capital to be activated in relation to land equipment for construction, introduces a spatial data collection system in one place for planning and allowing interventions into space and ensures a high level of public participation. The draft law seeks to focus investment activities primarily on the free and underexploited areas in settlements by activating them and by renovating and rehabilitating degraded areas in settlements in order to prevent dispersed construction in the direction of settlement. The bill introduces a new institution of the so-called municipal urbanist. We are convinced that it also offers a renovation of the urban or urban profession. It introduces much more efficient, less unnecessary complex procedures for decommissioning and limitation of property rights in the event of placement in premises, placement of public infrastructure facilities and, most importantly, in the transitional provisions of the previous agreement on municipal spatial acts, as defined in the sectoral laws, automatically transforms the opinion into opinions. This bill was long and thoroughly discussed on the Committee on Infrastructure in Parliament. The Law Service had a number of comments on it. We had a very broad public hearing in which the Engineering Chamber, as well as a number of other interested groups, had been specifically involved. I can say that we have thoroughly condemned the bill, including in very intensive cooperation with Members and Members of Parliament. Finally, I can say that this is also seen by the number of amendments, since only two amendments from the opposition and seven amendments from the coalition parliamentary groups are tabled on the proposal. I am sure that we have done a good job in this coordination and, of course, I hope that there will be no further reservations about the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Infrastructure and the Environment to be the working body of the mother. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Branko Janc, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues, President. At its 31st meeting, on 10.9.2002 and at its 33rd meeting, on 1.10 and 9.10.2002, the Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment considered a proposal for a law on the regulation of the premises sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly for a second reading. Representatives of the Council for the Environment of the Republic of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Engineering of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia participated in the meeting of the committee. The Committee received the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia of 27.8.2002 and the supplementary opinion of 3.9.2002, in which it drew attention to a clearer definition and distinction of the nature of spatial acts, which should also be reflected in their preparation process. In this connection, it still notes the uncertainties and inconsistencies of the proposed solutions in relation to the nature of individual acts and, as a result, the uncertainty as to their purpose and the coherence or interdependence between them. Therefore, it proposes the substantive construction of the processing of individual acts, the presentation of the terms used requires a reassessment, which could also be reflected in the proposal for a building law. Therefore, it will be necessary to provide for fully harmonised concepts under the two laws pending final solutions. In its debate on the individual articles of the draft law and on the amendments tabled to Article 1.10.2002, the Committee adopted all amendments to the LDS, the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, the amendments by Ambassador Jožet Tanka to Articles 52, 90, 116, 120 and 126, the amendments by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to Articles 2, 5, 11, 29, 46, 136 and 172. The Committee of the National Council on Infrastructure and the Environment decided at its meeting on 1.10. that due to the large number of amendments adopted to the proposal for a law on the regulation of premises and the possibility of verifying the consistency of the individual articles of the proposal of the law, the expert service of the Committee should prepare a draft amended proposal for a law. Following its meeting on 9.10., the Committee ordered the expert service of the Committee to introduce editorial corrections relating to Articles 4, 15, 24, 86 and 98 to the amended proposal for a law on the regulation of premises, which is an integral part of this report. The Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia reiterated the findings of the opinion concerning the preservation of the best agricultural land and, in this regard, the proposed provision of the proposed law repealing Article 8 of the Law on Agricultural Lands, the individual competences in the preparation of spatial acts and the question of the qualification of spatial actmakers in relation to the solutions to the law on the regulation of facilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Leopold Groselj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u6	Madam Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State with colleagues, dear colleagues and colleagues! Let me say hello first. The area of regulation of the premises covered by the law is regulated in the applicable legal system by three laws already adopted in 1984: the Law on the regulation of premises, the Law on the regulation of settlements and other interventions to the premises, and the Law on Building Lands. These laws together represented a harmonised overall spatial regulation and were based on the then public system of self-government social planning. As a legal act, the Law on Spatial Planning upgraded the social planning system in particular by laying down rules for planning the development of activities in the area and ensuring the general interest of the goods. The fundamental decisions on space regulation were taken as spatial components of social plans. The content of the involvement in the social planning system was also the reason for the normative division of spatial planning matter into the so-called planning law, which was mainly governed by the space regulation law and to the so-called second part, which was the implementing law in which the provisions of the settlement regulation law were laid down. At the present time, we can assess that the preparation of a new law on space regulation did not meet the requirements of social change. By abolishing the social planning system in 1990, those laws remained in force as they were designed as a relatively separate whole, but had to be modified, complemented and adapted to new requirements several times. With all the changes that I do not consider necessary to list, we can find that the law on space regulation has also become inconsistent and difficult to understand, and some provisions have become constitutionally controversial. However, some of the legal solutions in practical implementation have proved inappropriate or no longer follow the new knowledge and needs created by the change in the social system; in particular, there is no clear division in the competences of regulating the area between the State and local communities, too much determination and also the rigidity of the State spatial plans, ambiguity due to the overlap of new guidance content and also to concrete decisions and requirements in the spatial planning acts. And we could list it. Therefore, the basic purpose of the new law was to regulate in more detail the area of spatial planning, measures to facilitate the implementation of spatial arrangements, the equipping of land for construction, the regulation of spatial planning activities and the establishment of spatial information systems. As regards the legal order of the European Union in the field of space regulation in a narrow sense and a series of common directives in the areas to be taken into account, the conditions for carrying out activities in the field of design and urbanism in particular are those of the European Union. The proposed text of the law sought to regulate a number of legal provisions in the common law, as it was found at the time of consideration that this was an extremely demanding project in which legal system issues were to be addressed in the broadest sense of the word. After considering the law on the regulation of space both at the meetings of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee and at coalition coordination, we can jointly find that the law submitted is so regulated that its content provides an appropriate basis for consideration. Some of the amendments that have been tabled and the legal system has been further elaborated. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we will give support to the law, and in the course of the debate on individual amendments we will further explain our views and views and try to get our thoughts and suggestions into the law and in this way also support the possibility of resolving systemic legal issues as soon as possible in the area of space regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Jože Tanko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! The law that we are considering today is transparently structured, has a meaningfully allocated chapter, and if the application of the law is as consistent as it is planned, there will certainly be much more order in the area of space regulation, as it will ensure control, management, fair provision of public and private interest, protection of natural and cultural heritage. It is felt that the legal text is prepared under pressure, as some of the solutions have been under-examined and analysed, so also the replacement of texts, as well as in this replacement text, are some legal gaps, as is evident from the comments of the legislative and legal service. In the Socialist Party Group, we disagree with all the solutions presented and have proposed some changes. In particular, we do not consider that the issue of the competence to adopt acts at the national level is adequately addressed, as the applicant is transferring most of the powers from the legislative to the executive power, i.e. from the national assembly to the government and to the Ministry of the Environment. At the local level, however, the executive authority does not have any powers other than that of the proposer. The mayor cannot accept the spatial order of the municipality, even though the spatial order of the Republic of Slovenia is adopted by the government as a regulation. I think there should be a redefinition of jurisdiction from state to local level. The area of regionalism is also somewhat problematic. The regions have not yet been defined and legalized. We don't even know if they will, and the law gives development authority, for coherent development, for para-institutions, this is regional development agencies. I think that this area could and could also make sense of it as long-term cooperation. And this is also very easy to do in practice. The proposed solution is a kind of pressure on the constitutional and others with the sectoral laws of certain rights and obligations of the municipalities. I believe that this chapter should be completely amended. In recent times, however, we have seen the pressures of regional development agencies that have already announced calls for joint spatial acts of the regions, although there is no or at least insufficient basis for such calls. And it is the obvious overtaking and tactical compulsion of the congregations to accept the solutions offered. I also believe that the housing fund cannot have the power to manage an active land policy, because it is somehow not logical that this fund will deal with the purchase of agricultural land, then order conditional location plans and offer such regulated land units on the market. It's just money spilling to the lobby. Much better would be the allocation of funds through appropriate spending to local communities, and there could indeed be an active land policy implemented here in a transparent and controlled manner. It is also necessary to provide additional funds to municipalities for the implementation of active land policy, for the management of databases and for municipal urbanists; the existing suitable use, therefore, is not adequately evaluated and therefore it is not appropriate to transfer these obligations to municipalities. Some space management solutions, in particular as regards the conditional location plan, the urban contract and the provisional measures envisaged, are also still loose. This gives rise mainly to pressure on the owners concerned. And it should be better to resolve the problem or competence of a minister who gives consent to the spatial acts of the congregation. While this is okay and it is not disputed, it is necessary to seek a link with the LAG, because in the event of the repeal of the spatial act, the municipality cannot be the only payer. As far as criminal provisions are concerned, coordination in the ZUREP and the LAG is essential, as penalties must be proportionate to the gravity of the act and the responsibility. Although we will support the law in the parliamentary group, we propose to re-examine our comments. I think they're very in place, and they're very well-intentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mr Aloyz Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u10	Dear President, Mr Minister and other co-workers of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Initially, the Minister said that the law of the Karsed was largely harmonised and that the fact that the opposition had not tabled amendments to this law indicates this parliamentary procedure. Of course, the fact is that we tabled the amendments, but on the Infrastructure Committee all the amendments were rejected, and I don't know what logic we would then put in the same amendments and defend them here in this state battle. So that is the real reason, Mr Minister, that we have not tabled any amendments. Virtually all the amendments of New Slovenia, with which we wanted to burden you a little bit as a minister and your ministry, you refused, and then most of the members of this parliamentary committee followed. As far as the law is concerned, we are convinced that this law still does not provide adequate legal protection for agricultural land. So far we have had this in the Agricultural Lands Act in Article 8 and, of course, this Article 8 of the Agricultural Law destroys and in fact, despite the fact that the law says that there is a need for balanced development and protection needs, we find that there are no criteria in this law. Therefore, if a serious desire was to ensure the protection of agricultural land, criteria would have to be written in the law for such an important area as the protection of agricultural land. These criteria, of course, are not in this law and only then will the Ministry regulate this by means of regulations. The protection of agricultural land is in fact so important that it is even enshrined in Article 71 of the Slovenian Constitution. Article 71 states that the law provides for specific conditions for the use of land for prudent purposes - it is said that there is no such place in this law - then Article 71 of the Constitution states that the law provides for special protection of agricultural land - this law does not - and that the State is concerned about economic, cultural and social progress in mountain and hill areas. Thus, the Constitution certainly states this and, of course, we ask in our parliamentary group whether it will not be by adopting this law on the regulation of premises, as regards the protection of agricultural land, in fact, a violation of the Constitution, the 71st article, which sends the proposer or the one who adopts this law, calls for a national assembly to do so to ensure the protection of agricultural land in law. This is not regulated in this law, but it is only assumed that this will be regulated in the regulations that will then be adopted by the Ministry. Madam President, can you please ask everyone on the phone to do this outside because they're simply disturbing me. I don't know, a lot of Members are on the phone, and I'm supposed to present the views of our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you so much for the heads-up. In fact, I always try to keep an eye on the needed peace in the hall, where I think you have it satisfied for a normal discussion. Of course I'm asking everyone on the phone to do this outside this hall. Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u12	Anyway, I know I'm talking about a magnetogram, but I would say that culture in this national council would require that those of you who talk loudly do this outside this hall. So we would like to draw attention to the big problem on the part of our Group of Members, if I can just give you a little bit of information, as long as time allows me. See, in 1950 we had 66 acres of agricultural land in Slovenia. In 2000 there are only 38 acres left. If we had 21 acres of fields and gardens in 1950, in 2000 there were only 11 acres. I would like to point out that the country should strive to ensure some food security. And to ensure this food security, at least 30 acres of agricultural land per capita are required by some criteria. So in Slovenia we deviate significantly from this. And another information that says that, say, the municipalities in 1950 demanded a change of 140 hectares of agricultural land and 2,340 hectares in 2000. This shows, of course, that it interferes with the best agricultural land and that this law, which also foresees the abolition of the Fund's payment, I mean, the payment of destination, the change of destination - will significantly accelerate the intervention and construction on agricultural land. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] We'll be in the third reading - if only I can say this sentence [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u13	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u14	Once again with the amendment, we have tried to influence this Article 6 as we have already tried on the Committee's second reading, to change and to give the appropriate weight to this protection, and depending on whether we support this Act or not. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dušan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u16	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! With the amended proposal for a law on the regulation of space, we are finally saying good-bye to social planning in the area of space in our country. The new law, which will also end the transitional period in this area, which has been in place since the adoption of the Constitution in 1991, establishes a system of spatial planning for development programming, environmental protection, as well as for the protection of natural and cultural heritage. In the draft law, the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia welcomes the clear delimitation of powers in the area of the regulation of space between the State and the municipalities. We are particularly pleased that the law sets out more clearly the role and competence of the co-legislators in the preparation and adoption of the spatial act. We believe that it is right that the law also allows for greater flexibility of spatial acts and that it allows for the possibility of a so-called urban contract that can be agreed upon: either a state or a municipality and an investor. Major progress is also the possibility of a reduced procedure for the preparation of a spatial act. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we pay particular attention to another novelty, namely location information. The location information has confirmed by its content the competent administrative authority on the permissible use of space and on the conditions of intervention into space, as laid down by the spatial acts of the municipality. The novelty is also important due to the connection with the new proposal of the Construction Act, which no longer knows the notification of works either for simple facilities or for the maintenance of the facility. Construction or maintenance will therefore be possible at any time, of course, in accordance with the local information or spatial act of the municipality. We are also making a positive assessment of the range of instruments for active land policy adopted by law, which is particularly important for municipalities which are the basic agents of spatial planning. We make a positive assessment of the possibility of private property in public infrastructure and the possibility that the municipality can transfer the implementation and financing of equipment with an urban contract to individuals of private law. We have a positive assessment and support for a number of other innovations and improvements brought by the new law. Of course, we are aware that spatial planning and regulation is a very difficult professional task. It is even more difficult to establish a new system, which is well illustrated by the current process of adopting this law. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to the second reading in the home labour body, for which we have prepared 90 amendments, mainly on the basis of two opinions, together with the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and DeSUS, on the basis of the legislative and legal services of the National Assembly. The amendments, which have all been adopted and which are already included under the new Rules of Procedure in the amended bill that we are deciding on today, have, in the opinion of our House of Representatives, resolved all the still open conceptual substantive issues and the editorially improved text. Following a meeting of the home work body at which a second hearing of this law was carried out, the government withdrew from the legislative procedure a proposal for a law on the construction of buildings and submitted a new one. Many amendments to the new proposal for the Construction of Buildings Act also require some minor corrections to the amended proposal for the Law on Spatial Planning, so we have prepared eight amendments in the four coalition groups, which we will decide on later. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will support these amendments together with the Government's amendment to our amendment to Article 80, desiring that the law enters into force on 1 January 2003. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Trinitariani has also been declared to present the position of the Group of Members, because it is not between us, I can conclude that we have concluded with the presentation of the views of the Group of Members. And we are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 16.10.2002. Just to remind you, Members of Parliament and Members, you have unlimited time to discuss. Of course, within the time required by your parliamentary group: LDS 10 minutes, SDS 25 minutes, Consolidated List 5 minutes, SLS 10 minutes, NSI 10 minutes, SNS 10 minutes and government 10 minutes. I am putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the LDS Member Club and the three United Nations, SLS and DeSUS groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you very much. With regard to Article 6, there have already been quite a few speeches, both in the home labour body and in the opinion of the legislative and legal service itself. Personally, I agree with the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service only in the part which lays down and which states that, indirectly, Article 6 of the proposed law also interferes with Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act and that it is being repealed in some way. Personally, I think that's the right thing to do. And I'd like to explain why. The Agricultural Lands Act, in its second paragraph of Article 8, allows local communities, except for the non-agricultural use of agricultural land, for three reasons. In particular: construction of buildings serving agricultural, primary agricultural production, secondly, construction of protection and rescue facilities and thirdly, expansion of burial sites. Such a provision, which was adopted in 1996, seems to me too narrow and too harsh. As a result of this provision, in the past there has been a series of conflicts between municipalities and the Ministry of Field Affairs in coordinating the spatial components of long-term and medium-term social plans if I use the old term. Due to such a narrow formulation of the second paragraph of Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act, it was not possible, due to a bureaucratic narrow view of this article, to change the destinations, the primary use of agricultural land in the building land, although it was often found that this would be necessary and, of course, that this agricultural land is not yet a land belonging to the first area of agricultural land. According to my assessment, the provision of Article 6 of the Law on the regulation of premises is quite clear, is not loose and lays down sufficient criteria and conditions for the protection of the best agricultural land as well. It should be borne in mind that regulating the space is flexible and that the very nature of life in a place dictates certain changes. On the other hand, I am also aware that the best agricultural land must be protected, but there is also a limit. I personally see that the problem is elsewhere, and this has also been pointed out by fellow Member Joža Ašič at the meeting of his mother's working body. This is a question of classifying agricultural land into the relevant categories. Article 9 of the Law on Agricultural Lands has already laid down in 1996 that the Minister responsible for Agriculture lays down more detailed rules on the classification of land in categories. Subject to Article 121 of this same law, regulations should be adopted by law no later than one year after the application of this Act. That is to say, if we give up a few more reserves, by 31.12.1997 at the latest. As far as I am aware, these regulations are not yet in place, and even less so as to create a new category of agricultural land in the Republic of Slovenia. I believe that this new classification of agricultural land is necessary and necessary because the type of land in nature is classified in the first area of agricultural land, where there is the highest protection in accordance with the agricultural land law, as well as the indirect land regulation law, which according to its characteristics and I do not know what they do not belong to where agricultural activities are not carried out, where there are some abandoned wetlands, are abandoned areas of land where no one else cuts, producing anything. And you should look at these lands and recategorize them. I believe that by a new category of land we would eliminate a type of confusion, some fears, what the new regulation of this law and, most importantly, a type of conflict between the municipalities and the ministry, therefore, the state indirectly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you for your word. Therefore, in the opinion of our Group of Members, this Article, which is a key article in this Act, concerns the protection of agricultural land. Article 6 somehow degrades or removes the current Article 8 of the Agriculture Act, which has defined, states when it can be built on agricultural land of the first category and when such procedures can be carried out, such an investment cannot be carried out. We know that under this Article, all amendments to the first category of agricultural land were subject to the authority of the Government. This law now eliminates this power and, in its entirety, of course, transfers its competence to the Ministry of Environment and Space. And I am sure that such an approach will actually encourage investors to invest in the best and best quality agricultural land. I don't know if we are aware enough in this country that, in fact, the earth is as important as water and air. I've already compiled one piece of information. And once again, in the 50s, the Aryan surface splits. From 21 acres of fields and gardens in 1950 we came to only 11 acres of fields and gardens after the inhabitants of Slovenia in 2000. So that's an alarming information. And experts point out that if we continue with this process, we will continue at such a pace that in 50 years we will be without field surfaces. I don't know if we know what that really means: they build up and don't think about the food security of the population in this country. So become directly dependent on, if I simplify this, on the food from imports. Like today, let us say, some Arab lands in the world. It's totally import-dependent. I don't think that Slovenia could and should afford such a thing. And what is missing in this law and in this Article 6 is, of course, what I have already pointed out. Therefore, it did not measure how the legislator would cover agricultural land. The criteria in this law are not, despite the fact that Article 71 of the Constitution states that in order to make good use of agricultural land, these specific conditions must be written and that the law should provide for specific protection of agricultural land. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not in this law. It was in the previous Law on Agricultural Lands. I believe that even those who initiate a constitutional dispute against this law, which Parliament will adopt today, are likely to succeed because it is not possible to regulate these criteria under the law. This should be in this marriage. We have also warned the Ministry of the Environment about this in the debate. As for the former, this 8th Article of the Agricultural Lands Act provides that no payment is required or that agricultural buildings can be built on the best agricultural land, it is perfectly logical because it was capital and resources within the area called agriculture. Now, of course, this will be resolved and it will probably be necessary to pay another compensation for these facilities and then it will happen that money from under capitalised agriculture will move to another sector, which is called the Ministry of Environment and Space. Once again, I say that we - also in this Article - have also given the profession its amendment, so is the profession that strongly advocates the protection of agricultural areas; but unfortunately, neither in the committee nor in this Parliament is it enough to hear and listen to these arguments and to listen to the profession and to actually discuss this from the perspective of agricultural land protection, but not from the position of investors and those who would like to build and intervene in this space. Let me also say that essentially the intervention in this agricultural area began with the construction of Slovenian highways. There is much without, I would say, a lot of true arguments have reached out to the best agricultural areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you very much. I will in turn give the floor to the speakers to the debate on the amendment and Article 6. First the Secretary of State, Mr Jože Novak, then Mr Vukko and Mr Rokavec and then Mr Bozič. Mr. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u22	Dear Members, first of all, let me say that the Government supports the proposal of the supplementary amendment, because we believe that this supplement proposed by the parliamentary groups is, in fact, partly, in our own entirety - also corresponds to the New Slovenia MEP, who, of course, also wanted to have us write more precisely the criteria and criteria for intervention in this article. This supplement speaks precisely about this; that is, this supplement suggests that it could have intervened in agricultural land with such work and so limited, provided that the following criteria are met: according to their functional, protective, this is also agricultural, protection of also public goods, economic aspects in view of their acceptability in the local environment. These are now the basic parameters laid down by the law, and it follows that the Minister may then, on the basis of these criteria, lay down further details in the sub-legislative regulation. Let me mention that, of course, several articles on the protection of agricultural land speak in a direct or indirect way in the area regulation law. Let me mention only some - Article 3, point 6 - among the main objectives of regulating space is, ensuring environmental protection, conservation of nature, cultural heritage, enabling the sustainable use of natural goods, and this is agricultural land - they are among them and so on. Furthermore, Article 5 - oriented settlements, very rigorous - only within the settlement. In short, the law does not intend to spread uncontrolledly outside, but of course the protection of agricultural land is still governed by other laws, particularly the agricultural land law, which, of course, remains in force, except for this article, which is now replaced in this way. Why is he being replaced? In order to harmonise settlement enlargement rules in a uniform way. However, the Ministry responsible for its participation is still involved, according to the Ministry, we have been warned that in Article 6 we may be even more rigorous than the current agricultural legislation was when we limited only four groups of possible actions to agricultural land: agricultural infrastructure, reconstruction of existing buildings and only functional roundings of municipally equipped land in these parts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. First, Mr. Wolf. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u24	I would point out once again, however, that this solution seems appropriate and correct from the point of view of the congregations. If someone, and this happened, strictly judicially followed the agricultural land law, it is possible outside the settlement area to expand the cemetery, to work facilities for the protection and rescue and construction of buildings that directly serve primary agricultural production [[Bars and rods, not further worked than hot-rolled, not further worked than hot-rolled, hot-drawn or extruded]] . The first indent is not disputed to me. It is clear that agriculture must also be given the opportunity to make a new farm outside the settlement areas, just as it will suit the European Union, and I do not understand this too much about agriculture, but to do so if it has land, because it cannot spread in the settlement because it cannot make a new barn and so on; and such cases are quite something. Here we speak - and sometimes we feel like we are not reading - we are, indeed, extending to infrastructure, sports and recreation, transport, energy facilities, adaptations, reconstructions, so that I do not read the first, second, third and fourth paragraphs of Article 6. However, the second paragraph is important: "In the best agricultural land the construction of the buildings referred to in the previous paragraph is permissible only," and this is a condition, "but once again," I stress, "if it is not possible to use land that is less suitable for agricultural production". In the final stage it is right why not, if the space is limited, if there is a settlement and they want to make, say, a sports facility, a football field, and there is no other option. Yeah, why don't we make a football field on the edge of the settlement, especially if there's nothing on that land, there's no corn, wheat or anything else. Once again, however, the government has also added to the warnings of the profession and all these debates, in which case the land for the construction of the facilities is normally determined on the basis of evaluated alternative proposals, where the profession will decide which alternative proposal is better in terms of protection, which intervention will be less detrimental, if we say, to the protection of agricultural land. And the addition given by the four parliamentary groups, liberal democracy and coalition parties - we add the text: "in view of their functional, protective and economic aspects. We can't do more than that. We can say, however, that we can be concrete in existing settlements, no roads, no sports facilities, nothing; except for the cemetery, protection and rescue, and the first I will not mention what is necessary and necessary to remain so that farmers can also make a new farm in the middle of the meadow, one that will work. That's what I've been supporting, ever since.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, you volunteered for the debate. Replica, I think that Mr Wolf didn't actually mention you in his debate, but he did interpret you by considering that you volunteered for the debate. In order now, first Mr Rokavec, then Mr Christmas, Mr Sok and Mr Vizjak. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. I understand that the actual regulation in the area of space regulation has had a lot of nonsense, especially the existing land categorisation in the Republic of Slovenia. In fact, we face many difficulties that a farmer cannot build a barn - but outside the settlement. Out of town and stuff. On this basis, the new provisions of this law on the regulation of premises are certainly meaningful. On the other hand, there is skepticism, especially in this respect, because we are currently witnessing intensive agricultural land growth in our country, but in areas that are not interesting for construction. Which aren't very interesting to build. With a new law on interventions into space, hand in heart, we open the door so that only more can it interfere with the most quality agricultural land. In fact, the intervention or interest in the construction of buildings, economic buildings, residential buildings is mainly around major urban centres, cities. Where there are usually the most quality agricultural land. That's probably true. And that's probably why a little questionable is the "economic aspect." From an economic point of view, probably right. Only here can there be economic development. From the point of view of protecting the highest quality agricultural land, however, my assessment is questionable. So I would once again propose to think as a government and, of course, even if I come from a parliamentary group that is co-signatory to this amendment, I think this amendment will too open up the possibility of reaching out to the most high-quality agricultural land. I agree that a functional rounding would also make more sense within urban centres. And perhaps, even if the amendment is adopted, it is time for a slightly more appropriate solution to be found by the third reading. But according to my assessment of the diction as it is, it probably opens the door too much to intervene on the most high-quality agricultural land. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Christmas has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So, first of all, I'd like to tell you where I'm from. I come from the upper Soča Valley, where there was once only one municipality, now there are three total areas of 94,000 hectares, of which the Maria Teresa cadastral is slightly less than 1,700 hectares of fields; calculate the share of this. There must be 200 hectares on this surface today. But the ban is construction - and why? Because the large municipality of Tolmin, more than 20 years ago or almost 30 years ago, adopted a decision and placed all the legions and fields in the first category, the mark of Slovenian fine manners, the indigestion that no one, from anywhere in any of the haystacks and on any abandoned farm, should build a weekend. That is why I support this solution today, and if anyone would like, I am taking him to Kanalski Lom, where a farmer has been waiting four years for a building permit for a barn. This is due to Article 8 of the Law on Agricultural Lands when it is given into the hands of a real bureaucrat. That is why I really support this solution. I agree with you where there are plenty of good land to keep an eye on, but look at the resolution of the earthquake recovery in Bovška, Kobariška, under Krnom - the longest is due to the irregular ownership and quality of the land; when it is said, you cannot go there building because it is the first category of land. The second thing I would like to say is that in the municipality of Bovec we no longer have a farmer who lives only from agriculture; in the municipality of Kobarid there are, I think, only six, and if there are 20 farmers in the municipality of Tolmin, it is said, less than 30 farmers per 94,000 hectares of surface area. I therefore support a new solution so that there will be no problems like today, when no one can lay a foothold on a house or a new house. And I don't think we should be like the drunks of the fence to stick to some of the guidelines that we once accepted, life went on. And I ask myself, and I am also asking you all this question whether the landowner who has been without livestock for 20, 30 years must not build workshops in his garden in Bovska, Kobariška or Tolminska. Around and around the bush and the forest, we prohibit any construction by law on agricultural land. It's not right. And that's right, and I agree with that, especially with the amendment added to Article 6, because life is one, and let's leave that river -- "fiat justitia pereat mondus!" - So, justice has to win, but also if everything goes down. It's not right. It is necessary to live and the people of the village from where they moved - and let them come back. Today and even when I was mayor in Tolmin, I said, "I'll sign it at midnight, and then I'll go to court and have someone make a barn." For God's sake, let him come and do it, not to defend him.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. So I am not sure, as Mr Christmas is discussing, that this law will improve and that someone will not continue to wait for four years because of bureaucratic obstacles. Well, he himself said that the congregation had made some senseless categorization and so on. So this law is not going to solve these conjectures and such procedures. The essence of this Article 6 law is to extend the construction outside the settlement areas to virtually anything. Just as this article is written, even though this amendment is now being tabled, it is still necessary to assess the protection and functional and economic aspect. It's basically so, I'd say, widely written, that then everyone on some bureaucrat channels can succeed, or I'll say otherwise: whoever has the right botts, who doesn't have these, won't succeed. Because it's already written in the law. And I have previously pointed out that the Constitution states that the law must provide for specific protection of agricultural land. And I'm reminding you again. This is not the case in this law, whereas earlier in Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act it was explicitly listed, which is still possible to build or invest on agricultural land of the first category. Now, of course, this law is significantly expanding, and I am sure - and before that I have said some information that is extremely alarming, says how much of the best agricultural land is being reduced in Slovenia. I don't know if we always refer to how the profession will decide this and that, but why don't we listen to the profession that says if we continue to intervene on agricultural land at the same rate as today, we will be in Slovenia in 50 years without them. Whether that is true or not - it is written and spoken by the profession. It is said that in 50 years we will probably be rare anyone we are here today will not be - but our explorers will say, because these things have led us to destroy all our fields. I don't know what can happen in 50 years. But this is one such information, which is extremely alarming and I'm just saying, because it was presented to the public by experts and they also did, I would say, this steep path, this analysis of the steep reduction of crops, I also believe this data, and I only point to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 6 as well as, of course, Article 5 of the preceding article, according to my assessment, speak of the essence of urbanism and the essence of interference into space, namely the direction of settlement and, of course, of exceptions, of construction outside the settlement areas. I think it's here, I'd say, a dilemma between two positions that are contradictory. One is that people want to build, build and develop, because of their daily need for existence, after expanding their stay, and on the other hand we need to strive for where they can build and, of course, not to destroy some agricultural and some natural and cultural heritage. I think that these two interests attract each other apart, and we need to find, find compromises, that on the one hand we allow people to develop, their activities, and on the other hand we do not destroy what we have - our landscapes, our agricultural lands and looks and the urban images of our entire Slovenia. And here to set simple rules, how and what, of this rule, is to my mind impossible. For if these are the rules, they will seal someone up, that he will not be able to work, but they will also protect something, which is also not right for them to protect. Therefore, this Article, in particular Article 6, leaves a considerable degree of discretion to anyone to decide on a case-by-case basis. And I think it is right that this is so, because it will be very difficult to find in so many problems, such as urbanism in Slovenia, uniform criteria, uniform rules that will apply to Gorenja, which will apply to Pomurje, to Dolenjska and to any other part of Slovenia. Therefore, I personally assess that there is a need to relax the building on agricultural land which is unjustifiable in the first category today, because this is not the first category, if, of course, this is permissible and possible from all criteria for that particular case. That is why I personally support this, but I support it in such a way that it is decided by the profession, not by politics or by capital. For if capital is to be decided, then it will also be true that we will degrade those lands that are also fields today, but not those agricultural lands that are not today, although they are in the first category category, but in fact in nature some abandoned meadows, infested areas that do not serve anyone and only hinder development. However, I would like to point out here another problem which concerns this and which I think is crucial and unfortunately does not solve it, not in this article or in any other article. For in settlement areas we have a heap of unburied lands, which are private or whatever property and, of course, cannot be built. [[The ad from the bench.]] You're warning me? I don't know. You're waving at me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u33	I'm sorry if I confused you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u34	Well, in short, there are a lot of unburied building areas within the settlement areas that are not built because they are not in the owner's interest to build them. And thus, of course, the frequency of construction in these so-called settlement areas is low, and this means, of course, that municipalities are hard to obtain new quotas in walled areas. This, of course, cannot spread, cannot extend to what is envisaged, and at the same time, because the owner’s interest is not such but at the same time they do not get new surfaces. Here I miss the systemic, I stress, a systemic measure that would provide and that would somehow lead towards building land either building or reselling or something with them, not standing in the table of some families who are "sparing" this for some future generations, but perhaps the grandson will set up a house here, but now it is not selling and, of course, blocking the complex development of that rural or settlement and even wider. Of course, it is easy for the congregations to force their people by taxes on uncharted buildings and by various other measures. I think it is a single problem that is clear and obvious across Slovenia. That is why, in this law, I miss actually a systemic measure that would ensure a higher frequency of visibility of unburied buildings in settlements. This would solve many of the problems of urbanism and, of course, would also make it easier to get new quotas and, of course, expand, develop, somehow expand settlements in some direction. There's something else I'd like to say. I am even missing in Article 6, in the first indent, which directly serves agricultural or forestry activities, I miss complementary activities on farms. I come from a municipality where a complete municipality is dedicated to tourist activities. It has two wine roads, has a set of upbuilding complementary activities on farms. If someone on the farm wants to set up an object that will not serve agricultural activity as a priority, but will also serve to market these agricultural products, so that this person will be able to survive more easily in these challenges that are already on the table for agriculture today, even when we are in the European Union, I see that this person will be very difficult to do anything about it. I don't think that's the best. I think that we should be selective in this case too, because this is mainly a protection for the farmer. I think we can all do a lot of things in Slovenia today. Farmers can produce food, very quality, such and different forms. Wine, meat, grain, and I don't know what else. A key problem with agriculture is how to sell it to the backend that makes it possible to survive. Unfortunately, I do not see the possibility that these people who are still engaged in agriculture in Slovenia, especially in small farms, would be able to sell directly or any foreign activity on farms that would spill their product into money. Thank you very much. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I replicate those who talk about categorization and growth. I am pleased that the debate in this direction seems to be about the solutions that are offered by the supplement that we have before us. The categorisation at the time was extremely radical and was based on the current state of the land and on the hypothesis if these lands are regulated and can be in the first category. The first category went far into the village and ran out of building space where it was necessary. The biggest problem is that even in a rural area where no one was investing anymore, because the contribution to the change of destination was so expensive that he turned a lot of people away from investing where it was most necessary. Secondly, the problem of growth is separate from what we are now saying. And by building on the current first category - in Slovenia we have three first categories and in certain parts they are different, they are criminal and are completely wrong today. Whether we build here or not, we're not going to save anything. Recovery is being saved in another way, which was best saved in the previous system, whatever it was. [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you very much, Mr. Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u38	I'm just gonna finish up. That part must be solved in a way that regulates agricultural land, in particular mergers, and not in a way that is how and where we will build different buildings. For a third thought, I'm out of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The LDS Group has exhausted its time for a possible debate under all the amendments. Mr. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u40	Only a few brief explanations to some claims. First of all, there will be no illusion that the Minister of Environment and Space will be working alone without anyone else. The law says that there are mandatory professional grounds, they must be prepared by the ministries concerned, they must also deal with municipalities, they must also give opinions to the Minister on the basis of these opinions. Moreover, I had forgotten to explain earlier, Section 69 of the Law says that the decision can be appealed against the ministers and the government can resolve the complaint. So this spirit, I'll say, is still certain. You found out correctly, Article 5 basically speaks about housing, and Article 6 is, of course, only about exceptions. For Mr Visionak, who has now spoken at the end of his talk, the third point of Article 6(1) is that agricultural facilities can also be changed for other purposes, if they do not disturb farming and so on. This consistency is, in our view, adequately addressed for these cases of complementary activities. With regard to taxes, or with regard to stimulating the owners of building buildings, I explain to you that in the law on the construction of buildings, which will be later dealt with, we have made a transitional provision where we oblige all municipalities to collect this tax, it is said that it is not only a municipal matter, whether it would or not, but that it is. Secondly, in the new real estate tax law, which is expected within a year or two, because it is only a transitional period, but it is also a systemic solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u41	[[Written debate.]] I support Article 6 and the amendment to Article 6, paragraph 2, which lays down the criteria for the evaluation of the alternative proposals tabled by the coalition parties. The problems relating to construction outside the settlement areas depend, in my opinion, also on the tradition and culture that is present in every place and is, of course, specific. As a result, our municipality has major development problems, since agricultural land are 1 category, where, of course, there is talk of questionable land quality, even in such lands where there is no need to talk about it and interfere in urban settlements. The problem is also the categorisation of agricultural land, because according to the quantity or. The area of agricultural land of our municipality of Šentjur, the ignorant rightly thought that this municipality created 50% of GDP from primary agricultural activity. But it's not like that. Even a great deal of damage due to illogicality in first-class agricultural land is a fact. In the form of non-investment due to long-term change in destination procedures, since the potential investor-owner of land at the time he wanted to meet the conditions for investment-and this greenfield investment lost both the market and business partners abroad, the municipality and society, and quite a few jobs in an area that is already already above the average of unemployment in the country. I know that this debate is not directly focused on this article, but it is undoubtedly very visual. It is also important to note the problem and tradition of dispersed construction, which is a ten-year practice in Kozianska and cannot be compared with, for example, a ten-year practice. building in Gorenjska, where the construction is typical. This should take account of the specificity of the areas.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I think I can conclude the debate on Article 6 and the amendment to this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 12 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia to this Article. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that. Every law we adopt in the national assembly usually brings some new obligations to the congregations. If these obligations are not new, they are such that they are not accounted for in appropriate consumption. In this particular case, this other problem is said to be that the municipalities were and are responsible for solving certain problems in this area, but in the appropriate consumption laid down in the Law on the Financing of the Communities, this part was not accounted for. And when this is imposed on the municipalities and therefore new jobs need to be provided, the municipalities are being reduced by a flexible part that they devote to a certain part of development. Our proposal goes in this direction, because we are enacting a law on the regulation of premises, we are adding in this law certain resources to implement such an active land policy, to manage collections and to the newly established municipal urbanist. So there is no other way to make this adjustment, because the law on the financing of municipalities will be in the procedure when it is and the law on local self-government will also be in the process. We believe that with a smaller adjustment, with a smaller complement to this Article, this matter can also be properly and appropriately regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u45	We do not support this amendment because all the tasks referred to in Article 11 are already an obligation of the congregation, but we do allow for the possibility, of course, if the applicant considers that more should be said in the context of the discussion on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I am closing the debate on the amendment and Article 12 and we are moving on to the debate on Article 28 and the amendment of the four LDS, the United List, the SLS and the DeSUs. Since no one wants to discuss, I conclude the debate and put to the debate Article 37 and the amendment of the same parliamentary groups and the parliamentary club. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 58 and the amendment of the same groups of Members to this Article. There is no desire to discuss it, so I conclude. I am putting to the debate Article 113 and the amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia to this Article. Excuse me, Mr. Tanko, did you raise your hand? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. Mr. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u47	The government does not support Article 113 because it is not clear and because it sets up the beneficiary as one who could demand it back, it is likely that the ideas of the debaucheryer. After this salary, of course, it is nonconsistent, and it probably does not have the legal form that it could get. That's why we're against this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much. I am putting forward in the debate Article 116 and the amendment of the four LDS, the United List, the SLS and the DeSUS. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u49	I would like to ask the applicants if they can explain why they propose deleting this second point of paragraph 2 in Article 116. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u50	Proposers, some of them can't answer you anymore. Others have not notified themselves so that we can ask a government representative to assess this amendment. Mr. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u51	In this context, we have seen, of course, that the statements made by the applicants in the event of the successful execution of the comassation agree to the conditions set out in the location plan, are not meaningful because the plan has not yet been adopted at that time. And continuing to agree to certain conditions is a little difficult or pointless. That is also why we support this amendment tabled by the Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u53	We know that in our country we have major problems with the commotions. Especially when it comes to entries in the land book. In fact, it would have to be done in such a way as to first do it in all projects, in all plans, it was said on paper and then actually also in practice. At that time, there would have been no dispute after the works had been carried out. Such declarations as were provided for here in paragraph 2 of this second paragraph, so that participants would agree with the successful com-sational works carried out and agree to the conditions set out in the local plan - since, however, the site plan is an act before implementation - would make very sense. I would therefore like to hear from the proposers why, in fact, this very good provision in the law has been proposed to be deleted. If it is deleted, then we will have in practice, I do not know how it is elsewhere, but at least we do have none of the three executions entered in the land book due to complaints from individual participants in the commotion process. However, if such statements were to exist on the location plan itself, I think there would be no problem and there would be no dispute in the court itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u55	See, this so-called urban comassation is, of course, a new instrument, which, like in agriculture, also in these urban areas of force or wants owners in an area to agree. This intention still exists in marriage. Of course, it is logical that if they agree, if they approach such a solution, that they will at least fundamentally take account of the basic principle, I do not know, I get a new parcel up there, you below and so on, in some logical conceptual solution. However, because the location plan when adopted will not always be adopted before a commotion is introduced, as it may happen that this will be a parallel procedure. In fact, the law says that the commotion can already begin with a program of preparation of the site plan. This means, at the start of the preparation, it runs parallel, clearly, and in the end, the location plan must be adopted before the technical solution is complete. And because of this parallelity, of course, it's impossible to say in detail exactly, it's in centimeters, if you want, of divisional matters. That is why it seems to us that this statement might have prevented it sooner than not, if we had found that a thing or something moves about a half-meter away. It's in this context. And there's one more thing. We have been told here that 67% of owners can already be enough to begin the commotion process. It is not said that it is 100%, it may not make a statement on its own and then it itself can interfere with the whole process in a small part of this property. Intension, however, is still in the principle of agreements, because otherwise the comassation could not be carried out.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 133 and the amendment of the four parliamentary groups: the LDS, the United Lists, the SLS and the DeSUS. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 170 and the amendment of the same parliamentary groups. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. I would have had one question here, or I could have addressed it to the proponents, but I don't want to repeat the hardship that was in the previous one, but I want to go to the government. See, in certain municipalities, such as ours, Brežice, is just one of these, we adopted a spatial implementing act three years ago that has not experienced any realisation. It is said that no facility on the basis of this spatial implementing act has been built within three years, as defined. This rather clearly shows that something is wrong with this act and so on. I am interested in whether there is any possibility in this law, and in these transitional provisions, it is still potentially open that the spatial implementation acts, which are obvious, would be said to be very difficult or impossible to realize, and some municipalities do not want them and do not intend to amend them to expire after a certain period, unless, of course, a percentage of the building is carried out on this act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr. Novak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u59	The law provides that if construction does not begin at a specified time, such a location plan will no longer apply. What we wanted or had to resolve in Article 170 is that we have extended the validity of the currently adopted location plans, under this Article, it is understood, particularly those relating to motorways or certain others. After their realization, of course, they cease to apply so that in those parts, when they no longer affect the functionality of the road itself, they can come under the jurisdiction of the general rules of the municipality in this place, in short, that someone can also build close or otherwise. That's why that provision is there.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the amendment and Article 170. I am putting the last article into the debate, this is Article 179, and the amendment of the LDS and Consolidated Lists, SLS and DeSUS. Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. I inform you that we will vote today at 8.15 a.m. on the amendments in accordance with the meeting's timetable. I hereby end this agenda item and thank the proponents, the representatives of the government and all of them very much. We will continue at 12.05 p.m. to deal with the 18th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Topography of Semiconductor Bonds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u61	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, welcome! We're going to proceed with the 18th reading. Agenda items - Another defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Safety of Topography of Semiconductive Relationships. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Erik Vrenko, Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Members and honourable Members! Just for a short further explanation. The proposed law does not substantively change the current solutions in the law on the protection of the topography of semiconductor connections, but the provisions of the current law only comply with the rules adopted after its entry into force in 1995. It is therefore less difficult to change the law. The proposed law aims to harmonise the provisions of the current law on the protection of the topography of semiconductor connections with the provisions of the new Industrial Property Act in force and with changes to the organisation and working areas of ministries. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the updated proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the protection of the topography of semiconductor connections, which also includes a provision to remedy the shortcomings brought to the attention of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group is to be presented by Dr. Andrej Bajuk, who is not between us, and the Slovenian National Parties, Mr. Zmago Jelinčič Nomeniti, who is not either. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal of the law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the bill will be carried out on Friday, 25.10.2002. This concludes this agenda item. Thank you very much to representatives and representatives of the government. At 12.25 p.m., we will move on to a second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u64	Dear Members and honourable Members, Mr Minister, a nice greeting! We're moving on to 19. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the return of deposits to the public telecommunications network. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with the first-signed France Pukšič. On 21.10.2002, the President of the National Assembly, Borut Pahor, set a deadline for the collection of voter signatures to support the call for a preliminary legislative referendum for this bill. Therefore, the beginning of the consideration of the draft law at this time makes no sense. On the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, I therefore propose that this item of the agenda be postponed to one of the following meetings. This proposal cannot be discussed by Members. Representatives of the parliamentary groups may, however, communicate their views within three minutes. This proposal for a decision will be voted on in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today at 8.15 a.m. I ask if, on behalf of the parliamentary group, anyone would like to put forward a position on the proposal for a decision to postpone the debate and the decision on the bill to one of the next meetings. Because no, I interrupt this item on the agenda and, as I said, we will vote on the proposal for a decision today at 8.15 a.m. At 1300 hours, we will move on to the 20th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act. Thank you very much. We'll continue at 1300 hours.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u65	Guests, nice greeting! We're moving to 20. PERIOD OF THE DAY — DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY LAW, reduced procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Erik Vrenko, Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you, Madam President. Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen of the House! This law also does not substantively change the current solutions under the Industrial Property Act, but merely aligns the provisions of Article 131 of the Law with the general procedural provisions of the Law on Justice and the Law on General Administrative Procedure, concerning the issue of reimbursement of costs. It is therefore a less difficult change of law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the amended proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act, since the issue of reimbursement of costs in administrative and judicial proceedings is more comprehensive. The draft will be the contentious part of the provision relating to the counterparty and the costs associated with its work will be more precisely set out in the representative tariff approved by the Minister of Justice. We propose that you adopt an updated proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Branko Kelemina has the floor to present the position of the Socialist Party of Slovenia's Group of Members. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable rare present! Perhaps it would be more important to talk today when a person has time, about all other things, not about this proposal for a law before us, about interest, maybe interests, new rules of procedure and all other matters. Unfortunately, this is not the subject of this agenda item. The rules of procedure should be fully respected, so that sometimes I should welcome empty benches and empty chairs on such occasions. But what we want is, it's a new system. The Socialist Party's parliamentary group has no substantial comments or, as it were, no comments on the proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act. In view of the applicant's explanation and the Committee's debate, we believe that this is a minor change that is not supposed to have any negative consequences, since there is no interested party involved under this law. Perhaps somehow it is just a question of whether this prize is as high as the prize or the right to charge costs under the legal tariff. We have now not been able to understand these things exactly, even in the light of the complaint or the opinion of some of the participants who wanted to define these things more precisely. In fact, this is not the most understandable to us, but we have not obtained any representative tariffs, nor any legal tariff to compare these things, nor has it been transmitted to us by anyone else. In short, we do not have specific comments on this bill in our Group of Members and we will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, ma'am, colleagues and colleagues! Because Dr. Bajuk has moved in with the National Assembly Command, as I can see, I'll tell you his position. Our party supports this change, but this amendment is just right for the first lunch debate, because it is not such a big change, so that we can sleep peacefully on this matter. However, I would say that a change is necessary because this is about explaining the costs and costs of the trial before the courts and other state offices. Let me say that it seems that this whole law has not been fully in line with the law on judicial proceedings and the law on general administrative procedure. Now, with this change proposed by the government, this will be done, and we hope that this will work, although this change is only for the benefit of the parties in the process and not for their representatives. Well, yeah, if they made a smart deal before the trial, then that question too will be resolved. However, if I understand correctly, there is a slightly different procedure in the European Union before the Office of Marks and Models and that the costs and awards go to representatives. So whether this was released on purpose or not, I don't know, and I don't know, for whatever reason. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The third reading of the bill, this is the decision on the proposal for a law, will be held today at 8.15 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. At 1:30 a.m., the assembly will move on to the 21st item of the agenda, which is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Trade Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u72	Colleagues and colleagues! Madam Secretary! It's a nice afternoon to all of us. We're moving to 21. PERIOD OF THE DAY — REVELATION OF THE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE TRADE LAW. Let me remind the National Assembly that the proposal for a law will be dealt with in a simplified manner. We have 2 hours and 15 minutes of total time available for discussion. We will begin by saying to Dr. Tei Petrin, Minister of Economy, who is the proposer of the law. Please, Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr. President. By a decision published on 27 July 2001, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia repealed Article 17 of the Trade Act, which regulated the establishment of the operating time of shops, by starting to take effect within one year of the publication of the decision, that is, on 28 July 2002. The Court has thus taken a decision on the basis of the view that the legislator is obliged to regulate the conditions and the manner in which the economic activity is carried out if this requires public benefit. When authorising the enforcement authority to issue a sub-legislative regulation in this regulation, it must first, on its own basis, regulate the content to be subject to that provision and lay down the framework and guidelines for its more detailed sub-legislative regulation. In view of the fact that Article 18 of the Trade Act contained only provisions that the trader was obliged to operate during the operating time that he had notified to the competent authority which had previously established it in accordance with the criteria laid down by the competent minister, the Constitutional Court considered that this Article should be repealed. Immediately after that repeal, the law of the proposal for a new Article 17 of the Trade Act was taken over by the expert working group on the issue of the operating time of shops, which was established by the Economic and Social Council earlier, composed of representatives of trade unions and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, as well as representatives of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Labour and the Ministry of Economy, including the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Consumer Protection. Representatives of trade unions and the Chamber of Economics based their work on the findings of the Inspectorate's report on the operation of control over the implementation of labour law in trade activities from January of this year. Following a number of coordinations, they reached mutual agreement on most issues, so that the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Trade Act remained inconsistent only in the second paragraph of the new Article 17, which deals with the six-day operating week and the exceptions to this rule. Although such provisions were opposed by employers' representatives, on 5 July 2002 the Government of the Republic of Slovenia sent the draft law to the National Assembly on the grounds that the expiry date of Article 17 of the Act was approaching and that agreement on that issue between the social partners could not be reached despite all efforts. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia did not accept the Government's proposal to consider the proposal at its meeting in July, so the Economic and Social Council immediately reconsidered the issue of operating time in retail trade and the expert working group to continue its consideration of the issue on which employers' and employees' positions differed and seeks to reach an agreement that would be the basis for proposing an amendment to the bill and to report on the outcome of its work in September 2002. In accordance with the decision of the Economic and Social Council, the Working Group met twice again and adopted unanimously on 1 August 2002 the text of the amendment to the bill tabled. The amendment provides that the trader may set weekly operating hours for business days between Monday and Saturday, on Sundays, holidays and other legally defined days off than less favourable working hours, the trader may determine the operation of the store only in agreement with the employees, with the consent of the company to obtain the agreement in the manner laid down by the law governing the participation of workers in management and the rules governing the rights and obligations of workers. This text of the amendment was discussed by the Economic and Social Council at its September session and then introduced to it by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the content of this amendment and therefore proposes to the National Assembly to adopt a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Trade Act, together with amendments proposed to the Assembly by the Economic Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The Committee on the Economy has also considered the proposal for a law and I ask the chairman of the committee, colleague Feri Horvat, to present the report. Please, Comrade Ferry Horvat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Madam Minister, colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen! The Committee considered the draft law tabled by the Government in early July in order to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision as the parent labour force on 2.10.2002. In order to better understand the Committee's decisions on individual amendments and thus the amended bill, it is important to stress in particular the following. The Committee was informed of the additional opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, by a letter from the Ministry of Economy describing the progress of the section's work, which was established to establish a compromise solution in cooperation with the social partners, the position of the Association for Trade in the Chamber of Economic Affairs to the proposal of the Law, the proposals of the amendments, the views of the Economic and Social Council of 5.9.2002. The Economic Council, in a letter to the National Assembly on 25.9.2002, announced its support for the harmonised amendment made by the already mentioned working group composed of government representatives, employers and employees. In doing so, the trade union withdrew its original consent to the amendment because it has a separate opinion. However, he was informed of the trade union's proposal and the proposal for an amendment. The amendments of the four coalition groups were forwarded to the Committee. The meetings were attended and participated actively by representatives of the proposer, the legal and legislative services, trade associations and trade union. Following a presentation of opinions and an extensive and at times controversial debate, in particular at the time of Article 1, the Committee adopted amendments to Articles 1, 2, 3, 4 and 8. The amendment to Article 1 is essential. In its content, this amendment summarises the compromise solution already formulated by the working group. It's supposed to be. [[.... ……]] : "The trader may set weekly operating hours for business days between Monday and Saturday, on Sundays, holidays and other legally defined days off than less favourable working hours, the trader may determine the operation of the store only in agreement with the employees." [[End of story.]] The amendments to Articles 2, 3 and 4 shall comply with the amendment to Article 1 and shall take into account the opinions of the legislative and legal service. The amendment to Article 8, the validity of the law, is a logical consequence of the fact that the law was not adopted until 28.7. The Committee has also adopted the amendment to Article 6, which is to comply with the amendment to Article 1 and the amendment to Article 7, the amendment is necessary due to the delay in the adoption of the law. The Committee did not vote on the proposal of the Trade Workers' Union because no amendment was tabled on the basis of this proposal, proposed by the qualified proposer and adopted by the amendments to Article 1 and made this proposal irrelevant to the rest of the articles. On the basis of the amendments adopted, a further proposal is prepared. In view of the decision of the Constitutional Court - the deadline, as we have heard on 28.7.2002 - a law is needed as soon as possible, that is to say at this meeting, adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you, colleague Horvath, chairman of the committee. We will now hear the views of all the groups of Members. First he'll get the word of his colleague Bojan Kontic. He will present the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, after which I will give the floor to the colleague of the Magi. Mr Andre Visiak to present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. First, Comrade Kontic, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Secretary, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that it is necessary, after several years, to resolve this issue for the first time since we were faced with the problems of opening trading times. Since the entry into force of the Regulation on the operating time of trade, which was subsequently completed several times, and when individual local communities have also adopted their rules on the operating time of shops in their territory, there has been a problem when and which trade should be opened in accordance with the interests of traders. When these regulations were adopted, we were able to identify the different interests of employees in trade, owners of trade, and buyers. The solutions ranged from operating time limits following local community decrees, through the concept of on-call shops and to the full liberalisation of opening time shops. Different regulation of this issue has led to a constitutional assessment of the opening times of trade. The Constitutional Court repealed Article 17 of the Trade Act, the Regulation on Operating Time Shops and certain Orders of the Communities, with a reference to clarifying the terms and conditions of trade by law, which should have been done in July, as we heard the rapporteur of the Committee. In the United List of Social Democrats, we believe that the following starting points must be taken into account in determining the operating time of trade: to achieve the highest possible level of agreement between employers and consumers, to adapt to the practice of other European Union countries and particularly neighbouring countries, to assess the constitutional court's instructions regarding the provision of a free economic initiative for business operators, as well as the necessary constraints for public benefit. As always, when it comes to conflicts of interest between different social groups, we are convinced in the United List of Social Democrats that, even at the time of business, trade needs to achieve a high level of consensus among all stakeholders. It would be difficult to say that there were not many attempts by the social partners to reach a satisfactory level of agreement for the regulation of operating time, but the fact is that they failed to agree. We therefore believe in the United Nations Social Democrats Charter that, in accordance with the regulation of the other European Union countries and with the need to protect the weaker parties in social dialogue, we need to support union proposals that want to limit the working time of sales to 6 days per week. This will also limit the possibility of a number of abuses of workers' rights through labour law, which will also inform us of the work inspection in addition to trade unions. If we are based on regulation in European countries and, above all, neighbouring countries, which are most important for the operation of our trading companies, as we are also counting on the purchases of their inhabitants, we can see that the practice of opening trading times is very different. However, as a rule, most countries limit operating time to national rules. Various research, one of which has been carried out even by our research sector, shows that most European countries are open only exceptionally on Sundays. The exceptions are mainly related to the interests of local communities, which in these countries have a strong impact on the opening times of trade, and in us this right is denied, although there are no doubt local specificities in the tourist areas, the traditional city cores, the border areas and so on. Taking into account the majority of European practices, we also need to set restrictions on the operating time of shops. When assessing the reference of the Constitutional Court to the legal regulation of the operating time of trade, it would be very difficult to argue that the restrictions imposed by most European countries constitute a serious infringement of the right to freedom, an economic initiative set out in Article 74 of the Constitution. Countries in which economic relations have been operating for centuries on a free economic initiative are clearly limiting the working time of shops due to public benefits. In the United List of Social Democrats, we will therefore support the law and such legislation, which will limit working time to 6 days per week, with proposed exceptions to the operation of pharmacies, shops in hospitals and hotels and petrol services. Those employers who decide on Sunday's work will have to obtain the agreement of the representatives of the employees, thereby also strengthening the position of co-management bodies in companies. Above all, it seems important that the solution proposed in the amendment of the United List of Social Democrats will limit the possibility of abuse of the rights of employees, which have now been common in Slovenian trades. We will support the law because it is necessary to settle the issue of operational time of trade as soon as possible in order to prevent the legal void created by a decision of the Constitutional Court. At the same time, we want your support for our amendment to Article 1, which regulates the openness of trades in general for 6 days a week. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you, Comrade Kontic. The word now comes from a fellow magician. Andrej Vizjak, he'll be followed by Comrade Petty Officer. But first, as I say, my fellow mags. Mr Andrej Vizjak, to present the views of the Group of Members of the Social Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear President, a warm welcome to the Minister and the representative of the government. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the Social Democratic Party, we will support this law in the event that the amendment we propose is also supported. While we also agree that it is necessary to regulate the issue of opening time and business on Sundays, holidays and holidays. But we stand on one principled point of view. This is to agree on the circumstances of this work on the basis of social dialogue and, if social dialogue fails, to support the weaker side in this dialogue, it is the workers. That is why we stand for the views of the trade union, which only opposes the full liberalisation of operating time, as it is also unacceptable for the Social Democratic Party to liberalise operating time, which eliminates the limit of regular operating time for a maximum of six days per week, with the unaltered amount of allowances for Sunday work. I think that's the key and the basic point. The unions agreed to some extent with the offer or proposal, but it got complicated when and when we started talking about add-ons for Sunday work or work on holidays and holidays. Why? Because it can actually be the only key, the only system key that can actually also limit employers to going into over-liberalisation on Sundays and working days off. If a relatively non-stimulating allowance were to be paid for these days, in the business sense of non-stimulating supplements, it would already be limited to this work and abuse could not occur. On Sunday, supervision by inspection and, of course, control of the number of hours per worker is virtually impossible. I know that because I did it. Practically, the employer keeps distorted records. The employer’s records are not such as the worker actually does his work and meet all legal restrictions. In the end, it comes to one thing that is for an inspector and what is for wages, but in fact what a worker actually does on Sundays is another thing. Therefore, looking here for appropriate solutions, how to control and how to find a key with some negotiation, it seems to me that it is unproductive and that the amount of the supplement is the one that could at the same time disstimulate the employer from this work and stimulate the employers to increase employment, also covering those days on a regular basis that require this work. I would also like to point out that in the Social Democratic Party we have tabled an amendment that speaks similarly to the amendment of the United List and is the basis of the requirements of the trade union of Slovenian trade workers, namely that the trader may set operating time up for a maximum of 6 days per week, except in shops within hospitals, hotels, pharmacies and stores of fuel and lubricants on petrol services, and that in exceptional cases the employer may set working time even on Sundays, holidays and other legally defined days off as less favourable working hours, only in agreement with the employees. And here, I think, again, one important thing is how to consider the consent of employees. According to the Social Democratic Party, not only the problem of economic companies or those employers who have organised co-operation of workers in management, but also a major problem are a large number of more economic societies and independent entrepreneurs who do not have an orderly participation of workers in management. And in these employers we therefore consider that there is a consensus, that is to say, in employers where there is no organised participation of workers in the management of the law, consent is obtained if at least two thirds of the employees vote in secret ballots. In short, the employees are those who give or do not give consent, either if they are organised in management or if they are not, and in a secret vote by a two-thirds majority. If this amendment is adopted, we will also support the amendment of the Trade Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much, colleague mag. A visor. Now I give my word to my fellow magician. Janez Drobnič, who will present the position of the New Slovenia Group. He'll be given the word of his colleague Kavčič. First of all, my friend mag. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greeting to all present in the hall! We have in Slovenia as regards opening times of trade, wild west and disorder. If you remember correctly, I have asked the Minister of Economy a question concerning the regulation of this and on this law more than one year ago. And you've all been looking hard at why I'm doing this when it's time to fix it. Now you can see that time has run out and that we are in an unconstitutional state and, of course, we also have a wild situation like no other in Europe. Why do we have such a condition? Since the government has done too little work because of, you want - you don't want to - we also have to mention the two-tier operation of trade unions and, in particular, the efforts of monopolies traders to fully liberalise this area. As a result, shop workers, especially women, who face excessive burdens, families, and family breakdowns, and, last but not least, employers, the latter, with higher costs that will eventually pass on to the buyers. In the National Assembly, Members of the LDS have been opposed to the regulation and the inclusion of this law in the July session in the summers, so another area is unconstitutional. In fact, you also gave some kind of distrust to Minister Petrinova's proposal at the time and, after all, to the government, thereby allowing for an unconstitutional situation in the country. New Slovenia does not want to support such liberalised solutions, with which Slovenians will be servants of merchants, but one that will harmonise all three sides: employers for a decent market opportunity with rationalisation of costs, buyers with adequate accessibility, but do not buy, and workers, in particular sellers, with the right to rest and at least the minimum opportunities for family life. It has clearly been shown that in the first text of the Regulation, some traders who, without having thought about it, have provided complete liberalisation and constitutionally controversial exceptions, i.e. those who are privileged by some. It is unacceptable for traders to judge for themselves when to have open trade without any legal provisions. The consequences of such liberalisation with a view to maximising profits are reflected in the excessive burden on workers, overcrowding, violation of Sunday's rest and more. The practice has shown that social partners are difficult to reconcile over opening time. Therefore, since they are trying to close trade in a way that is controversial in terms of the autonomous rights of the seller, workers should decide on the opening time of trade. The city of trade unions is in negotiations on the scope of rights, in particular tariffs and certain awards, but not opening time. In this way, individual trade unions could not open up according to their business judgement, but they could open up to the dictates of workers, which is unacceptable. Employers - traders, in particular monopolies, see in opening times on Sundays and holidays the opportunity to break small traders who cannot ensure an adequate and rational distribution of labour. Every merchant knows that the one who first introduced the opening on Sundays and holidays wins. Eventually, but with the delay, others follow him. Finally, it turns out that, in the case of the other relatively equal purchasing power, the costs of trade are increased due to the higher labour force and the material costs that are being spent in these days, which eventually translate over higher prices into buyers. In Novi Slovenija we see a solution in a six-day workshop with completely clear and all the same neutral exceptions that are defined. While we advocate closing trades on Sundays and holidays, except for the exceptions mentioned in the amendments. If laziness France can have an open time, people devote themselves to each other, family, a pleasant trip or something, and it is similar in other countries, why they could not have so arranged in Slovenia. If the amendment we have proposed is adopted, we will also fully support the law in Novi Slovenije. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Now I give my word to my colleague Blaž Kavčič. He will present the position of the LDS Group, after which I will invite my colleague Brenčič to the floor. As a matter of fact, first of all, colleague Kavčič for Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u83	Dear Mr President, Madam Minister, Secretary-General of the Ministry! With regard to the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on trade in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we think it was good that throughout the summer it was used for an in-depth discussion in which we feel they had a major role to play, which is good and right, the representatives of employers, trade and representatives of workers, the union. These are two very important actors in this area, and we believe that the interests represented by these representations have been presented in a qualitative and effective manner. The basic position of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia has always been to support the negotiation of the aforementioned representative groups in the direction of free economic initiatives, on the one hand, and respect for labour law, on the other. However, it should not be forgotten that the Trade Act is very important for at least two other stakeholders. The first interest group is represented by buyers in Slovenian shops. We are more or less all citizens and citizens, who are more or less often bought in Slovenian shops. The other stakeholder group, however, is those unemployed who could potentially be employed in trade. In the Liberal Democracy, we estimate that it is right for someone to talk about the interests of those people that we may have forgotten a little, at least, in this article. So these are candidates for new jobs in the store. We can assume that several working hours in trade will have to result in the opening of new jobs in trade. However, this will be decided by those workers who are already employed in the trade and will probably have no particular interest in supporting solutions that may be motivated for themselves to consider the incentive to pay extra for work in less favourable working hours. This may disturb us somewhat in this final compromise that has been reached. In recent years, Slovenian trade has made great progress according to our assessment. Part of this development is also seen in the rationalisation of internal organisation. Trends in the redeployment of staff from administration to operational sales work are present. We are convinced that the work already in place, with less favourable working hours, has also helped to keep jobs in trade. The second part is an assembly that is not to be forgotten. It has already been mentioned that we are talking about quality of life, but we are not talking about quality of life only to those who work in trade. We are also discussing the quality of life of all Slovenians as buyers. Here too, I think that the solutions so far have led to Slovenian working man getting a better offer from Slovenian trade, more adapted to his modern rhythm of life and work. I mean, and in the Liberal Democracy we share this view that this is a civil contribution, a step forward that is worth respecting in the future. Let me get this straight. The proposed law in its updated text and without subsequent amendments seems to us to be a very reasonable compromise, which, to the maximum extent possible, took into account the expressed interests of all legitimate groups interested in quality legislation in this area. That is why we will also support him in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Comrade Kavčič. Mr Stanislav Brenčič will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. I'll put my word behind him to my colleague Stemberger. My friend Brenčič first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice to meet you all! Since the key purpose of this law is in particular to define the possibility of trading in spare parts of days, I should first say that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we do not, in principle, support any introduction of the obligation to work on days off. If we want to determine the operating time of trade with the law, then we must certainly take into account the relations and starting points that are in the relationship between the employer, in this case management, administration or traders directly, and workers, that is to say employees, defined and laid down in the umbrella labour law and, of course, indirectly, in the law on the participation of workers in management. These definitions and provisions are also subject to the supervision and control of the Slovenian inspectorate for work. If the labour inspectors carry out their duties consistently, then there are many doubts as to the appropriateness of the complementary text of Article 1 or the updated text of the draft law in Article 1 or Article 17 of the statutory act is completely superfluous. The fundamental position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group is that, in determining or determining a trader, in order to open or operate his shop, even in days that are defined by law as part of a day off, a genuine partnership between the employer, that is, the trader, and employees in the sense of a balanced mutual interest, if we say so at home, yes. In this context, it is particularly important to say that employees will need to be motivated primarily by payment. The question, however, makes sense when, in a particular organisation or company, trade, there is no establishment of a working representative, provided for by the rules governing the rights and obligations of workers. We believe that it would make sense that in such a case a co-conspirator is a congregation of workers or a congregation of employees. However, according to the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, this option has no real legal basis or is no longer provided for by any regulation in the field of labour law. That is certainly why the amendment proposal for the amendment to the Committee on the Economy, which I have proposed, has not been adopted. In any event, the second paragraph of Article 1 of the amended text or Article 17 of the amended proposal of the Act will encourage employees to establish their own representation on the basis of a law on the participation of workers in management or other rules governing the rights and obligations of workers, and also in the event of misuse of their trust in the trader's interests, directly and immediately. If there are exceptions to the law to certain types of shops that may set working hours even on days off, then this list should be well thought out and professionally examined, otherwise we will have to consider that individual stores will also be included in their sales or business articles of broad consumption. In fact, profit is a thing that generates a lot of ideas, unforeseen actions and actions of the owner, in which case the trader. This will also create unfair competition, which itself calls for action by other competitors on the market. For this reason, the exception must be as low as possible or this law must not be clearly stated. In this context, the Slovenian People's Party's Group considers that the text, as contained in paragraphs 1 and 17 of the amended draft law, is the most acceptable in this context, and we will also support it with the entire bill. However, we expect the Labour Inspectorate to carry out, in a consistent manner, both preventive and curative, if I so express itself, control in accordance with the mandate to which it is subject and in accordance with all the rules which allow and also direct action. We are confident, however, that the working time of trade on days of free work will not increase or give the possibility of additional employment, as this simply does not work out for the employer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you very much. I see that the speakers are all very well timed at the time of the debate and end practically at the exact moment, which is commendable. Please, colleague Stemberger, keep this tradition alive. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, we agree that Article 17 of the Trade Act should be regulated in accordance with the instructions of the Constitutional Court. In the event of this article, we are looking for a compromise solution between the interests of employers and the positions of employees in commercial activities, which we know are diametrically opposite. The great competition between companies in Slovenia has led to the extension of their working hours on Sundays. Of course, only the largest trading companies can afford it, while the smaller trades at this pace cannot follow. The result, of course, is the closure of small shops, mainly in urban centres and in rural areas, which further cripples the lives of the city’s cores and artificially directs them to large shopping centers. Employers also transferred this burden directly to employees on Sunday, increasing the amount of working time. This in practice means that most employees work every day of the week. In commercial activities, in the vast majority, women are employed, who are practically unable to devote one day a week to their family, not to talking about the necessary rest at all. Thus, the interests of capital affect the normal lives of employees who have no choice but to submit to all conditions and pressures in the workplace. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that it is the duty of the State to act and ensure certain basic rights of employees in such cases, as they cannot themselves. As we know, employees and employers have met several times today to negotiate a joint amendment to provide an appropriate and acceptable solution for both sides. However, the union gave its consent to the amendment conditionally, as employers still did not agree on the level of the hourly rate for Sunday’s work. The contents of the amendment, according to the Young Slovenia Party, questionably provides for the possibility for employees to choose their rights in all the pressures they face in the workplace when they give their consent on working time. Many strangers are therefore still open and it is a great possibility that most employees will still have to work on Sundays despite changes in the law. However, since the proposed amendment is more than a legal void when the law is not adopted, we will support this in the Group of Members. However, we note that the appropriateness and practical feasibility of the provisions of the law will need to be carefully checked, as it is highly likely that employees of these rights will not be able to obtain them. In this case, we believe that the National Assembly will have to find a better and more effective solution than we do today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you very much, colleague Igor Štemberger. We have thus concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I don't see my colleague Jelinčič in the hall. We will proceed to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments you received on 15 this month. I would like to remind you of the amount of time available to the parliamentary groups, LDS 5 minutes, SDS 30 minutes, ZLSD 15, SLS 5, Nsi 15, Slovenian National Party 10 and independent Member 3 minutes, and the government finally 10 minutes. We're at Article 1. I am putting to the debate 1st Article and 3 amendments, namely the New Slovenia Group of Members, the Social Democratic Party and the United List of Social Democrats. I'm opening a debate. Who wants a word? Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you so much for saying that. In Novi Slovenija we advocate that a six-day worker is in the week, but it is clear that weeks and holidays are closed, with exceptions. The general exceptions are that each trader decides for six holidays or weeks of the year on his own, according to his own opinion, when he will be open, and then he also has an open one, otherwise they are closed. Except, of course, trades that operate on terminals, hospitals, pharmacies and medical pumps, but again limit to a certain sales area so as not to be played out and set up trade fairs in these places to undermine real and therefore market competition. Such an arrangement seems appropriate in terms of neutrality, suitable for Slovenia, suitable for employers to make those exceptions. It's probably going to happen for a happy December, so they'll probably have traders open, or not. This will reduce the cost of doing business, and we know that the purchasing power of the population of Slovenia is limited anyway. There won't be any problems with Sunday's work. We also thought for a while, or when this proposal came to the attention of the workers to decide whether to open trade on Sundays, we do not think it is right in two respects. First, because business decisions must be decided by the owner or the operator of the trade. They shall decide on the regulation of the production or resources necessary for the operation of an undertaking, a market operator. On the other hand, leave this to the fate of employees, or trade unions, so that a business decision becomes actually in the hands of employees. In this place, we believe that the role of employees must not be decisive, but it is decisive in other rights, as regards work arising from the Labour Relations Act. These are the key reasons why we have tabled an amendment that we estimate is neutral from the point of view of traders, to hit and cover the interests of employees and others, including buyers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you, Comrade Petty Officer. A colleague of mags. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. In fact, it is absolutely true that with the flood of opening trade and trade on Sundays, which is particularly characteristic of the larger shopping centres, the practically total burden of this work has been borne on the shoulders of employees who have already worked in these shops and have worked at a normal time without these weeks. These traders must, in particular, be workers; they must now work longer; they must work full-time and even in less favourable working hours, which is Sunday. I had previously understood from the presentation of the parliamentary groups that the inspection must carry out its work, and that will not or will not be less. I'm asking you here, those of you who think so, how can an inspection control this. Whether the inspector in each store should be the entire operating time of this trade and exactly for each individual record, how much time is there and, of course, gets information after how much that day an individual trader or individual worker has worked. However, we do not have as many inspectors as we do trade in Slovenia, so of course this finding will be flawed. True, employers are obliged to keep all records in this area. I'm stressing again. The records maintained by the employer and the records kept by the worker himself are quite different. The worker works significantly more than is actually shown in the employer's records and as shown in the employer's payrolls. This is probably less likely to occur in larger employers who are more difficult to exercise here, or even harder to pass here, because they have only some organised forms of workers, either a union or something else; in small employers this is everyday practice and it is impossible to monitor it. Anyone who thinks this can be controlled can't be controlled. And, of course, there is a real exploitation of workers. There's been a real exploitation. How do we pair this up? In fact, in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, we have this free economic initiative and it is difficult to impose administrative restrictions, but now you must not open on certain days or weeks. Therefore, I think that the most appropriate measure is to discourage employers from doing so. Employers can only be stimulated in such a way as to increase the cost of this work for the benefit of employees. And these are add-ons to work on Sundays and on days off. I think that there was also a basic requirement for trade unions to talk to employers about the amount of these supplements at this dictatorship. But here, according to my opinion, the employers kept a fig in their pocket and did not want to meet this most important one. This is said to be some kind of systemic work limitation measure on Sunday and working off days. It will be difficult for us to prescribe any smart solution here with these amendments if we ignore the basic requirements of the trade union and, of course, align solutions with them. In the Social Democratic Party or personally, I contacted them in some way and our party formulated an amendment that somehow sums up their view of the issue. If someone thinks that an inspection can solve these problems and that it will do anything with tighter control, he is deeply wrong. Perhaps in some individual cases, but generally not. I would also say that in practice the workers do not hope to talk about these problems. It's open, it's open. Rarely is anyone who can do this bravery. Even the workers, if consent is required of them, will give it away. But they will give it because the employer will watch them because they fear him because their employment and bread for their families depend on them. That is why we have proposed that this agreement be obtained secretly with two-thirds of the support. I think it could be some kind of security guard who would, of course, set it up. At the same time, it is certainly necessary to determine in collective agreements the appropriate amount of this overtime. Here we see a solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thanks, buddy mag. A visor. Would you like a word now, Minister, or should I give it to you later? Please. Then my colleague Kelemina, my colleague Simšičev.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you very much for your word. Your Honor! In this Article 17, this proposal, which was also adopted by the Committee on the Economy when I read this Article, as I have already said on the Committee on the Economy, I note that it is essentially a harmonica. You can stretch it all you want, up and down, on all sides, it'll always play. He always has to play it. And that's exactly what they're trying to do in our legislation many times to make things as complicated as possible and then we can play things out in all living ways. In short, simple dictions are impossible for us. Where did we get this, I don't know, but it's absurd. Once the government understands that it is necessary to write such laws, that simple people will understand them, not only, I don't know, those who have dealt with such texts for decades, or I don't even know what expressions should be used here. I wonder why it is necessary, for example, in an article like this, to mention a whole series of rights from other laws, if this is all written in other laws. Why does it have to be written? It is only for me to duplicate and express some of the powerlessness of individuals who are trying to exercise some of their interests here, just as on certain occasions it suits them. Otherwise, you might say something like that - because the workers, if they don't answer them to work in the store, go somewhere else. But the fact is that today every worker, even though it is paid so modestly and miserablely, is actually somehow rounding up that job, whatever it is, so that it can survive at all; because if it is not at all, not all people are actually willing to go to social services, even though there are many who like to go to social services, but not all of them have some personal pride. But here I feel that there is a sense of this or an obligation as an MP to protect these workers in some way and to protect them by not being able to stretch these loose texts of laws indefinitely. There is also a big question of inspection services, and so on, they don't work at all, and it's better not to talk about it at all. However, I do not, in fact, support the adoption of such a proposal as was proposed here by the Committee, as set out in the Rapporteur, under no circumstances do I accept it, because it is unnecessary to speak and repeat certain legal obligations which are defined entirely elsewhere, which is understandable to me and should also be that other laws must be respected, not only that which is here, because it is always discussed, in connection with other laws, you can never look only at what you have before you. I am looking for the simplest possible solution, and I will certainly support any of these three amendments that are proposed. All three are better than what is proposed by the committee or what is advocated by the government. I firmly believe that the remaining three amendments - well, everyone will defend their own - according to my assessment better. That is why I would rather support what individual parliamentary groups or certain Members have proposed. However, I do not think that this law will be implemented in the end, as no one has ever done before. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. Colleague Danica Simšič, behind you colleague Stanislav Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! It would probably be the simplest thing to do if we now had a directive of the European Community in our hands to order a solution, but we do not have it, and the European Union also has very different solutions. After many of the international comparisons I have looked at, I have found that more than half of the countries actually prohibit Sunday work and that in other cases there are also some restrictions. However, we are now in our country and we are regulating the situation for our country. I think what we should really be asking ourselves is what society we want. Either really purely consumer or we want to have some time a week for some other activities. It is also important to stress that traders and traders could work on Sundays, although they did not count on it. Okay, logically. At the same time, we need to know that 15% of the active workforce in Slovenia is engaged in this activity. So 15%, which, of course, we make a completely different life to them than we did before. At the same time, I think that, in fact, the communication between employers and workers here has ended very badly, particularly in view of the possibility of understanding the problems of employers. If the data are correct - and I have no reason not to believe - in recent years, net profit has increased by more than three times over the past few years, and employees' wages by barely 50% for a poor half. To say to a merchant or merchant who will have to work now on Sundays to stimulate him to work 7-10 hours on Sundays about 300 tolls as much as he has been able to negotiate with his employers, that is, 300 tolars for Sunday work, not for an hour in that Sunday work, so not for a pound of bread, I find it very, very questionable. And to force such solutions, I must say, I don't think it's acceptable either. That is why I am essentially advocating the amendment that we have tabled as the United List of Social Democrats, that we have one day a week, whether it be Sunday or any other day when people can do those things and we are dealing with those activities that we do not actually have time for. At the same time, some other data say that we have extended our working hours by more than 30%, and that the amount of money or national wealth we have poured into trade has increased by about 3%. So the amount we have of citizens and citizens is limited. We're not gonna waste it anymore if we don't get the ones from the outside who would buy it. I think it makes no sense, therefore, to completely exhaust our employees in this activity and therefore offer them an extremely modest compensation. Since colleagues and colleagues from the parliamentary group are planning to come forward, I will stop here. Just a brief response to Mr. Petty Officer. We didn't look at anything fat when he asked the secretary about the problem a while ago. We also asked other Members and Members of Parliament, but we did not get answers to our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u96	I'll give my word to my next colleagues and colleagues. In order of course, Comrade Brenčič, mag. Travel, colleague Sušnik, colleague Horvat. My friend Brenčič first. Comrade Brenčič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that. I certainly support any intention that establishes the content of Article 17 of the Law, which will protect the weaker. In this case, he is undoubtedly a weaker worker or employee. However, I have some concerns about these amendments. First of all, we cannot interfere with the existing infrastructure of post-festum sales. If we define in the law only the sale of fuels and lubricants on gas stations, especially on motorways, then I do not see the logistics of how these services will adapt to new developments. I also doubt how we will define the option presented by my colleague Drobnič's amendment, how to limit 80 m2 of usable space on the gas service. For example, every service on the highway already has a strictly limited part that provides self-service in larger squares, such as, let’s say, cashier’s office and so on. These are some logistical obstacles that need to be imposed in marriage so that they will not be impossible. The other thing that bothers me is that we have a solution in exceptional cases. I fear that this "excellent" will in practice be subject to any understanding. Whether it is a Sunday in which a game takes place at a stadium near Bežigrad and then there are exceptional circumstances that there will be, or that there will be, a state or a different visit, or some natural logistics requires the opening of shops, or some natural event or accident. I don't know what. It is difficult to use this term in practice specifically. That is why I fear that if we accept these amendments, the marriage will be very difficult to implement. However, in any event, I am in favour of the fact that, above all, the salary is the one and you have to agree that if the employer wants to get the consent, he will have to offer enough. To offer so much that even a worker sees in this that part of his freedom, which is essentially shattered by the fact that he is no longer free. However, I strongly support that a co-rapporteur would be a council of workers, perhaps not even a two-thirds majority, and that this agreement is sufficient to take advantage of the advantages on the part of the stronger. But in this context it is so set that the amendment at some other points is such that we cannot practically quote it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u98	Thank you very much, colleague Brenčič. Mag. Spending and following you, Comrade Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! For the first time, I had a discussion on the business time of trade in the city world in Maribor, when we tied the business time of trade only to those we named on-call stores. The Constitutional Court's decision has come, the decision of the City Council has been annulled, but I cannot say that the power of debate and polarisation of the positions relating to operating time in trade has fallen. I now take the floor in the debate in support of the third amendment to Article 1 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Trade for a simple reason, because I believe that, as it is written, it is, however, acceptable from this point of view, which I now intend to present a little bit. I would like to point out precisely the interests of the local communities which these communities have in relation to the operating time of trade. Perhaps this is how it is accepted to deal with this issue, as we are now experiencing, to consider yet another evidence of how we have centralistically regulated things that give local communities very little room for manoeuvre. If we want to follow Europe in other things, it would also be good to take the experience of Europe into account when considering the relationship between the country and the local community. The comparative analysis already mentioned several times suggests that European countries, however, have more hearing for the interests of local communities and that they know different operating time arrangements, including regionally different. For us, however, the case is that the Chamber of Commerce claims that the different regulation of operating time by region or part would be contrary to the Constitution, even since such solutions would allow economic operators different business options, it is said that inequality or discrimination. Now there is also a restriction on competition. If it is possible to derive from this experience that Europe knows that the regions have different trading hours, I would like to base this on the fact that it is simply impossible to overlook the needs of the population and probably the related interests of the economy in different environments. I think it is possible to compare the needs of the population, purchasing habits after all, as well as the possibilities to operate in some urban environment, with those that exist in the rural environment. And don't think I don't know that I don't know the cases when it's possible in some Slovenian village to see that the store is open on Sunday, not just until 11:00, but even longer. I therefore support the thesis that the specifics of individual tourist areas should be taken into account during business hours in order to take account of how the number of buyers increases over a certain period of time. And all of this could also affect the setting of working time, where the local community would still have more opportunities to determine what is also connected with the life of the people who live there, not as tourists, but as permanent residents. It has already been pointed out that individual parts of the year are such that they call for more flexible opening time and that it extends across certain normally specified timeframes. However, if this happens, it is essential that those who are affected by such work in less favourable working hours also have the right to an adequate payment. I hope that in this national assembly there will be a hearing for the solution offered and that the side that is more on the side of the big traders will not prevail. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I now give my word to my colleague Sušnik, after which he will receive the word of his colleague Horvat.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Look, I think we're missing out on one big opportunity to follow our neighbors this time, according to good practice, and leave our stores closed on Sundays. We are interfering with the family segment - we have previously heard that 15% of the employees are involved in the new introduction of working time - we are interfering with the segment of life and I do not think we are aware of the consequences that will arise. I think the government proposal was good enough to keep it that way. I would, however, like to paralyze with the aim of these amendments, which all in turn refer to the participation of workers in management, as provided for by the law on the participation of workers in management and the rules governing the rights and obligations of workers. Look, on the board, we found that this legislation, even though it was adopted ten years ago, is not alive. To tie any decision and consent of workers to bring Sunday work to something that is not alive or not alive is, simply put, pure pretending or blindfolding when we decide that opening trades will bind to this legislation. Together, we have found that this legislation is not alive, that it is not alive, that it is not in practice enforced, and now we are all coming with an amendment that relies on this decision-making of workers. Why did the consensus of the social partners fall? He fell because the trade union simply couldn't agree on a trade union, and he couldn't agree on the promised amount of allowances if Sunday's work was started. These people were forced to go into Sunday work for extremely low, underestimating wages, but provided they were added a solid supplement for Sunday work. I was appalled when I heard that the allowance for Sunday's work was 300 tolars. Look, it's a simple mockery of people and a material proof of how the law on co-ordination of workers doesn't work. Because if this legislation were to work, it would not have been possible to have an additional payment of 300 tolls for Sunday’s allowance. It's just a confirmation of what I said. Even what we have proposed in our parliamentary group is to obtain the consent of the workers by an additional secret vote in the assembly of workers, which we have tied to a two-thirds presence, and to the majority. I think that this would be some conditional satisfactory protector, but violence or overpowering of employers over employers, over workers in shops, is so great that I hope to say that even in a secret vote they would not dare to express themselves contrary to the employer's will, because otherwise they would be faced with bullying, dismissal, unpaid work outside the scope permitted by the law and all that is still going on in the area of trade. Look, this is all happening at a time when we recently announced the week of the baby. None of the governmental and non-governmental organizations that then carried out the miracle of some activities dedicated to the child have touched Article 17 of the Trade Act, which still has a bearing on at least 50 or 42 thousand families, on the upbringing of children in 42 and several thousand families, as far as I am concerned to say that families serving bread and subsistence from this unfortunate trade. It just doesn't work. And there's one more thing I'd like to mention here. Look, because of such processes that are linked to this introduction of Sunday's work, it simply happens that the supply network just falls apart. How to respond to these challenges or to this phenomenon of simply older people, people who are not mobile, who, at the same time, are also faced with ending these village trades, which cannot withstand this relentless struggle, which we are further encouraging with the possibility of introducing Sunday work. I just don't understand these purposes. I don't understand because it's obvious that we're going to succumb to the interests of this large capital that controls most of the trade supply in Slovenia today. This is simply impossible to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you, Comrade Sušnik. The text is given by a colleague Horvat, a colleague of Montenegro, colleagues Drobnic and Gasparini. First, my friend Horvath. [[No, no, ……]] I'm a colleague of niggers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Well-known, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister and member of the government! In my debate today, I would like to stress and highlight the role of the social partnership in addressing such an important issue as the working time of trade. I wouldn't exactly repeat it. I have encountered this problem, just like my colleague Potrata in the city world, in Ljubljana and not Maribor. I've actually seen how much this is actually a very broad topic. When I read the material that was prepared for today's session, as well as the entire arrival of the post office of workers and workers and the letters addressed to us by the union, I have found that this is actually a social partnership and a very important component that we need to be more sensitive to in the National Assembly. The interest of capital is undoubtedly in that it covers and achieves the largest profit. However, I personally believe that the highest profit can be achieved only with the active and real active role of employees. Without satisfied employees who can have a significant impact on customer demand even in trade, it is not possible to have a successful trade activity. We are now faced with the situation that many, rather, many employees, who are mostly in commercial activities, are dissatisfied or dissatisfied with the treatment of their employers. We are reminded of this by a number of letters from affected workers and workers. If we look at some trade indicators from 1996 to 2000, we can find that the labour costs are only increased by 88%, the return on capital in this activity for the same period by 195%, and the net profit on the employee by even 299%, that is almost 300. This shows that the interest of capital, if not too much, has been highlighted. And there are not many arguments that would not confirm the union's requirement that part of the profits should be allocated to employees, or at least culturally and in accordance with all the principles of social partnership and negotiation and, in particular, in accordance with the legislation adopted, regulate their rights to holidays, weekly holidays, annual holidays, transport and so on. If today the amendment tabled by our parliamentary group to Article 1 and the six-day operating time of trade is not supported, it is highly likely that trade unions will launch a referendum initiative against the validity of unfavourable law for employees. I personally believe that the referendum will succeed in supporting them. In the abundance and abundance of all the referendum initiatives, I ask you, all colleagues and colleagues, to support the amendment of our parliamentary group, because this will show that we know how to listen to workers and workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u104	Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. Some other colleagues also mentioned to me why it was 80 square meters and how we would do it, say, on gas stations. If you look at Austrian traders, then you can see that the gas services in Austria have a cashier's cashier's cashier's allowance for petrol and also trade, depending on the working day, whether one or the other is open or both. In short, it can be arranged, it can also be arranged in such a way, there is no need for any serious investment, not at all. All you can do here is move the cash register, you can - it's a merchant's judgment. Why, however, did we put this restriction - so that, in the context of these allegations, which the government has also proposed to prevent any exclusion? Because you can also set the largest Mercator center on the terminals and these areas, that is exactly what can happen to you, so we have given this limit, for all who appear in that space, is neutral for all; but the limit is precisely because of this goal. So it works in that sense well. As workers play a key role in the opening times of trade, as I have already said, this is very questionable. Indeed, the opening of trade should nevertheless be decided by the owners and those who manage the property and the company for them. They decide because otherwise there are strange situations, that there are two powerful merchants in the same place, one who managed to "deal" [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] Others don't. [[...]] Workers do not decide on business resources, they do not decide, they are not who do business, but they will decide on the opening time of trade, which is the key to ensuring a positive business. That's the conundrum. And if that's how we're going to turn it around, then we've turned the wheel pretty much back. Although I understand the well-meaning nature of this move, in order to close up, or that traders would have these six days a week, and thus prevent exploitation and Sunday work, even at these symbolic prices, 300 tolars, which, hand-to-heart, does not depend on the special transport that needs to be provided on Sundays, since public transport is not provided. But it's not a real instrument. The goal is, I think, similar, we have one and the other, but we have the measures slightly different. What about local communities? I find this idea around the local communities, as Mrs Póteta has mentioned, also cute, but then the question arises to whom to let what is a tourist center, what is a strict center. It's hard to make any reasonable criteria here. Why open up to someone in Isola, for example, why not allow someone in Kočev to open? I look at equality, equal market opportunities. But what the government advocates, I think, is the Liberal Democracy, but this is actually more of an anarchy. That's exactly what it is. If you go along the lines, you see what has developed in this our love of Slovenia about when we do not have some smart and reasonable regulatory mechanism. Nothing but reading. Those who have already had 24 hours of sales, 24 hours of seven days, as they want, because these terms, these indents are not bleak, these are not the dreary conditions to be met, but one is enough. It's in hospitals, hotels, transport terminals, in short, it's not working. [[...]] I am therefore still insisting on our amendment, which is, for these reasons, even the most logical, reasonable and appropriate to ensure true market competition. On the other hand, it ensures decent business, sufficient minimum conditions for buyers and ensuring the safety, social security of workers and prevention of exploitation. That's what I'm defending, and I think we should go this way. But I will not say that this is the best we can guarantee in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much. My colleague Gasparini and then Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much, President. First we get everyone by the head here: if you don't vote for our amendment, we will call, organize, participate in the referendum. That's what Mrs. Potrate, not Potrate, Mrs. Crnugelj, served us. I mean, that's a little too much to say about the referendum. But that, by the way. I've been listening here for an hour now, and I'm talking about how the workers who work in stores are supposed to be, like, 16% of them, but nobody thinks, like, nurses. We're clear on that. The health department has to work 24 hours, there has to be someone there, the doctors got a little confused here from this situation, but the nurses have a night tour, an afternoon tournament, a Sunday tour, a holiday tour and so on and so on. But what did we do? We've done this relationship, this payment, this, this, this thing that's done outside of work, like we used to, they've arranged these nurses and they're quiet and we're quiet because we have a 24-hour nurse at our disposal. Mr Brenčič, that's how you say that some of the workers in the store shouldn't be working on Sundays. I don't know why we shouldn't be working. It's our fault they're working. We go on Sundays, go to some big market, and you'll see how many people there are on Sundays. Profit. Thank God, those small stores that Mrs. Potrata said were open somewhere in the countryside, these are private shops. These little stores can't live because of the big ones. And then, of course, they help themselves to work in the store on Sundays, holidays, and so on. Mr. Brenčič, you and your neighbor said this should be settled by contract. With the contract between the worker and the employer, let's work this out. But it pays 150%, 200%, 300%, it's a matter of contract. And this is where the unions are supposed to intervene. And that, Mr. Sušnik. You said to look at the neighbors, I don't know which neighbors, I really don't. If you go across the region, or through Trbiz, or Sežana to Italy, you will see that the wholesale trade, especially the big ones, is open. But they have something else. They have unions that take care of these workers. Unions. Not with us. You know they fight with each other. You're thinking about another part of the working people that works on Sundays, not just the shops, and I don't know what you're up against here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u108	Comrade Podobnik wants a short performance, with a discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you very much. We have reserved very little time here in our parliamentary group and we need to be very precise. On the issue of operating time, it is my opinion that it is actually necessary to accept some kind of axiom. Whatever is agreed on in the Economic and Social Council, the legislator should not, in principle, go through this and that. According to the information I have, what is agreed is what it says in the amended bill. But all the rest are interpretations. Some amendments bring some solutions that can be good, but unfortunately go through an agreement in the economic and social world. When we have been stifled many times in the past that we will not go along with any solutions that go beyond the agreement on the economic and social world, we must do so today. This is said to have very little room for manoeuvre here. It must follow the solutions proposed by the Committee when it took a decision on the Economic and Social Council. However, some later feared for their decision, had little fear, had passports for various reasons, but unfortunately that was their problem, not the problem of the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you, Comrade Podobnik. Anyone else want a word before I give my word to the Minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u111	One topic, which is very important, was triggered in this discussion. This is the existence of a network of small shops and city stores. We have also been aware of this problem in our thinking about this law, but we believe that the problem is a challenge in other areas and other laws. In particular, we think it would be good for the Ministry of the Economy to actively support the thinking on the substantial simplification of legislation for small trade, which is said mainly for S.p., up to 10 employees, as proposed by the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. However, we are aware of the fact that small trade in villages is more or less part of already large trading systems, since otherwise they could not compete with the purchase and assortment of articles they must have for customers in the smaller district in which they operate. So this is one of the important problems that is worth being aware of, but we believe that it does not belong to resolution under this law, but must be resolved in other areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you, Comrade Kavčič. Colleague Danica Simsic, behind you, Comrade Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you very much. Look, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u114	Comrade Sušnik, no offense.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u115	Excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u116	She had a colleague named Danica Simšič in front of you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u117	Good. Thank you very much. I would only like to answer Mr Petty Officer who should then decide if this was a possibility for trade to be regulated by the local community. It's a local community that's been around so far. Municipal or city councils have arranged this. But if we had regions, the regions could sort it out. Just like it is elsewhere in Europe. And it is true, Mr Gasparini, that nurses have also chosen a higher allowance for work on Sundays, holidays and so on. But this is one of the activities that has to work 24 hours 365 or 366 days a year, like some others, police, firefighters, information activity. I've been working alone for over 20 years, but I didn't complain. But there are some things that do not necessarily need to work 365 days a year and 24 hours a day at the starting point. And here are the employees of the store - merchants, merchants, sellers really weak article. According to the data, what the capital does to them is extremely ugly. It's extremely ugly. And, of course, there is also a duty of socially sensitive capital, which obviously is not ours, because it is extremely gravely liberal to offer a hand and that, of course, it can plan things on a longer term. That's it. So, because I think I'm going to run out by the last second, but, yes, we need to take the main solutions that are also agreed on in the economic and social world. And one of them is this one. However, there are times when, say, 15 percent of the active population in this country and, as a result, so many people associated with this activity are children or older or anything else. That is why I think that there is nothing wrong with the legislator being a little more sensitive to these weakest articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u118	Now you have the floor, Comrade Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Look, it's very plastic for your colleagues to figure out what's going on in the store. Injustice, minimum wages, conditions that are not worthy of man. 200 hours or more of work, which is not valued at all, practically no rights. That is why I do not understand or can not believe that, according to your proposal by the amendment, we could put an agreement on Sunday's work on some legislation that has existed and does not exist for 10 years. Please tell me what essential element you know, which will suddenly give all the weight and full implementation of labour legislation in the management and co-decision, or all the rules, so that they can then leave the decision on Sunday work to the amended Article 17, without binding consensus, as we have proposed, on the assembly of workers, where we have proposed what majority should be present at this assembly of workers or, also, how to make a decision. I don't know the case. Tell me how in some Leclerc, Mercator or Interspar, this involvement of workers in management, on which consent for Sunday's work will be applied. [[...]] How effective it will be if you have seen in the entire debate that these people have no right here to be wronged and that everything is wrong. Now I can't imagine agreeing to be bound by this legislation that doesn't live. Please tell me what are the new elements that we do not know, which will guarantee that this legislation will suddenly come to life. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u120	Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u121	Thanks again for saying that. If we maintain this dictatorship, which is now in Article 17 of the Law, without amendment, we will witness the further decline of small traders, small shops. That's reliable. This is the way forward, to the concentration of commerce and not the Christian God will rule, but God Mercury will rule in this Slovenia instead of people to live a decent life. These examples show that in Slovenia it is necessary to cut down a legal provision that will determine in advance how it is done on Sunday with working hours or operating hours. I therefore reiterate and appeal to my fellow Members and colleagues to support our proposal, because there is no need for the agreement of the employees, given that he has become this seller, this worker is such a weak article and so just a number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u122	Anyone else want a word? My colleague Danica Simsic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u123	Just try the answer, because we only have a few more seconds. See, earlier on-call trades had decided on this, local communities, when the previous law, the previous regulation, and the Constitutional Court's decision. And that's when it was defined. The provision on co-management of workers in deciding how many days or what day they are to work or operate trade has not been and is a new provision. The Law on the Co-ordination of Workers has precise provisions and this law is respected and we believe that it would also be here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u124	Thank you very much. The time of the parliamentary groups is beginning to run out slowly. Anyone else want a word before I give my word to the Minister? [[No, no, ……]] Madam Minister, you have 10 minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u125	Mr President, honourable Members! The government supports, as I have already said, the amendment proposed by the Economic Committee to the Assembly, but it does not support the three amendments that have been discussed here today. But the reasons for this are as follows. First time. The proposed amendments were not prepared in the spirit of the requested procedure imposed on the drafter by the Economic and Social Council to reach agreement between employers and employees. In fact, I must point out that employers in the economic and social world are not only represented by the association of free trade unions, but also by representatives of workers in the trade represented by the Independent Union, the Confederation of 90 and the Pergam Trade Union. The amendment tabled by the Committee on the Economy was prepared in accordance with the recommendations or request of the Economic and Social Council, as all the trade unions involved in its creation and in this working group, which was formed to prepare this proposal. Another time. I must also point out that the proposals mentioned, as has already been raised by some Members who have discussed, prevent the employment of new workers. New jobs, as we know, in the current economic situation and in the event that economic growth is expected to deteriorate or the economic situation in the world is, of course, extremely important and closing the possibility of doing so at a given time is not, of course, opportunistic. Also, if we look at the restrictions that are listed and allow these service facilities to be opened - how did we write here? - services, gas services, of course, this is completely understandable, because if we go on a trip on Sundays and stop at some inn where even workers work in this inn, probably not just the owner or, I don't know, what kind of cut, we sometimes have to pour gasoline as a consumer. And here we understand the needs of consumers, but we do not understand the needs of consumers, that they may have to enter trade on Sundays. Customs have changed, and not just life patterns, but changes in life patterns are due to the way work is changing everywhere, including in neighbouring countries. If we allow only these retail or gas services to be opened on Sundays, it means that we are in some way introducing a discriminatory position towards all other companies that are also dealing with retail trade, as these amendments do not allow and prevent this. I think this is a solution called for by a constitutional initiative. We had it once before, and remember that the repeal was due to the initiative of the constitutionality of that regulation and that is why we have also been amending it, and there has been the repeal of Article 17 and all of this process that we have is being carried out as a result. The next thing I would like to stress is that if we are talking about these supplements, then of course the following should be said. First time. When this working group was preparing an amendment to this Article, there was also some commotion between employers and employees to address this issue of the law, the issue of Sundays, holidays and the like. But then the law department intervened and, in fact, the thing is that the supplements cannot be determined by special law, because this is a special law, but that this area can be regulated only by a collective agreement or by a labour law. The next point I would like to stress is the question of if we are already talking about the additions that, in fact, the amendment proposed by the Committee on the Economy makes it possible to start a social dialogue on the issue of the Sunday work allowance a success. This was also, I think, a consensus has been reached between the social partners on the process. And the process has begun, and it is true that it has not yet been completed at this time. For negotiation is a process that takes time. As far as this data is concerned for overtime, I think it has been quoted that 300 tolars get an allowance for Sunday hours, for work on Sundays; we have information that for Sunday hours, from the base and with the addition, the worker gets in the shop 1,300 tolars. That's what I have to say. This information is valid for Mercator, per hour gross. Then there's the other one. More than once, it has been pointed out that we stand or stand up for 15% of the employees in trade, and therefore the question of opening trade on Sundays really needs to be brought to the fore. It is, of course, necessary to say here that this information on this issue that we are currently dealing with is not relevant. However, it is relevant to know how many of these workers out of 15% of all employees in the trade on Sundays and, of course, how many other workers are working on Sundays. And this information is that there are 2,000 workers or workers working in the shop on Sundays, while there are 40,000 in other activities or all employees working on Sundays. This is said to be only 1.9% of workers and workers working on Sundays in the store of employees working on Sundays. The second point I would also like to stress is that the proposed amendment law, submitted by the Committee on the Economy, in fact gives rise to some coercion, or also to the initiative and demand that this principle be finally enforced or the legislation of this co-ordination, of co-management workers. Trade or commerce will not be able to open on Sundays if there is no agreement. However, this is also a very important, relevant basis or basis on which the inspector will, of course, be able to assess the infringements, whether or not the infringements have occurred. If there is no agreement, of course, it can prohibit the operation of the store on Sundays. The last issue raised was the spatial distribution of stores in Slovenia in connection with work on Sundays. I must say that, of course, this connection is not unsound and does not, in fact, resolve this issue. If we are talking about the concentration of trade activity, then we must say that these trends in trade have started in some countries in the 1960s and we certainly have in the 1970s. Large companies with their supermarkets, hypermarkets and the like began to develop rapidly in Slovenia in the 1970s and later in the 80s, 90s. We, like other countries, face the problem that this concentration also raises the issue of this spatial distribution of shops in a geographical area, and we are also aware of this issue at the Ministry. Thus we have already formed a group that is preparing a strategy for trade development in Slovenia, which will include representatives of the Chamber of Commerce and Trade Unions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u126	Anyone else want a word before I close the debate? Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u127	I would just like to add this, in view of this view, that it might be possible to limit the space that I mentioned earlier, that some shops are open in certain areas with a restriction on the surface in order to make this constitutionally controversial, with the same certainty, I can say, in the same logic, that they would then become the constitutionally disputed fourth indent of this second paragraph. By the same logic. I therefore disagree with these arguments, and it is precisely those who have already acquired certain rights: stores opened 24 hours do not fall under this six-day week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u128	Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] Colleagues and colleagues! I conclude the debate on Article 1 and the three amendments. We will vote on the amendments and the article in accordance with the 20-hour and 15-minute deadline. This concludes this agenda item. The National Assembly will continue its session with the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Industrial Property Rights Act at 3 p.m. and 45 minutes. Until then, I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u129	We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of the Industrial Property of the Business Dimension, Shortening Procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Mr Erik Vrenk, Director of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Intellectual Property. Please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u130	Mr President, honourable Members! I've been here for the third time, so if we didn't change, I'd have a bad feeling. The proposed law does not substantively change the current solutions of the Industrial Property Rights Act from a Labour Relationship, but the provisions of the current law are only in line with the rules adopted after its entry into force in 1995. It's also a less demanding operation on the law. The aim is to comply with the provisions of the new Industrial Property Act, the new Labour Relations Act and to take account of changes in the organisation and working areas of ministries. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the updated proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Industrial Property Rights Act from the Labour Relationship, which includes solutions that address the shortcomings highlighted by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. We propose that you adopt an updated proposal for a law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. The rapporteur of the Committee will not present the report. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Does Dr. Bayuk have the word first? [[No, no, ……]] Then we have another application, Mr. Victory Jelinčič. [[He's not here.]] I note that there is no presentation of the views of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles, so I conclude the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. The third reading of the bill, this is the decision on the proposal for a law, will be held today at 8.15 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We will continue at 4:05 p.m. with the 23rd item of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u132	We're moving to 23. PERIOD OF THE DAY — DEFINITIONS OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION LEGISLATION LAW ON THE FIRST COMPOSITION OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND THE REFRIGERATION OF THE IMPOSED INVESTIGATION SOCIETY, reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Anton Anderlic. I give the text to the representative of the proposers for further explanation of the proposal. Mr. Kavčič, please, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u133	Your Honor! The proposal for this law is in fact about the implementation of a solution already confirmed by this National Assembly, but due to procedural error it has not entered into force. The proposal of this law does not in itself open up some entirely new options, but allows all potential insurers to consider investing in up to three times the old-age pension that they have so far. In particular, a person who is now 58 years old can count on 32.658 tolars per month's rent instead of the current 10.886 tolars. For someone who is now 25 years old, this means that he can count on 45,552 tolars of monthly rent instead of the current 15,117 tolars. This is the fundamental and only consequence of the adoption of this law. We are therefore only interested in reasonably increased insurance opportunities for citizens and citizens. It is true, however, that the law is basically a bit nicer to women than it is to Slovenian legislation. This professional finding stems from the fact that the average life expectancy of women in Slovenia is about 7 years longer than the average life expectancy of men, while the law already basically sets 60 years as the single age at which a person becomes entitled to a pension. The law already in its basic text represents one of the rare opportunities for older generations who have spent decades in a different intergenerational pension system to obtain a single pension. Someone who is now 58 years old will be able to pay for this investment in an old-age pension after the calculated tables over a period of 3.8 years. However, a person who is 70 years of age is said to be older citizens, and this solution is even more favourable, i.e. it has repaid the nominal amount over a period of two and a half years. It is true that there is a need for investment. The basic marriage solution is no longer a solution that would be free of charge for those who want to serve these forms of old insurance, but a comparison, for example, of 10,000 vouchers is 1.5 square metres of residential space and 30,000 vouchers for 4.5 metres of residential area in Ljubljana. So it's a possible dilemma for a citizen to invest in some kind of square metre of small apartment and so much higher retirement and, of course, a higher level of safety at an age. Of course, different comparisons are possible. It is important that this way of thinking and analysing in Slovenia is applied as much as possible. It is about promoting responsibility, security and happiness of its own. I would also like to point out that this law further increases the possibility of younger generations as well. In particular, the life insurance component of this law is important here. If I give you an example, let's say 2 million tolars is the buy-in value of a life insurance policy in which to invest 500 to 600,000 tolars, this is one of the most favourable life insurance ratios, ratio 1:4, says this form of insurance is unfortunately not known, but very attractive can also be for younger participants. If I conclude, the law is aimed only at a reasonable increase in the insurance opportunities of citizens and citizens, while we are thinking about what an investor in pension vouchers has earned, lost, won, won, did not have to, and we are not interested in preparing this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u134	Thank you very much. I give the floor to a representative of the government, it will be Mr Mag. Sybil Svilan, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u135	President-in-Office [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u136	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! [[...]] At the previous meeting of the National Assembly, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, when a law amending the Act on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of special investment companies was considered, opposed to the total abolition of the limit. The Government, on the basis of the proposal and of course the decision of the parent committee at this time, does not oppose the text of the proposed law amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the special investment companies submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia by a group of applicants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Who will be the rapporteur? The President? The rapporteur, Mr Trofenik, is supposed to be here, but I don't see him here. So he's not a reporter? Here you go, Mr. Pucko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you very much, Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy dealt with the proposed bill and supported it by adopting an amendment and, as such, proposing to be adopted by the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Following the presentations, you stop with the groups of Members. First of all, Mr Ivan Kebric, DeSUS - five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u141	We turned it on too early.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, colleagues, colleagues and representatives of the Ministry of Finance. In our Group of Members, we are fundamentally opposed to this proposal to amend this law. It is only the exercise of the predecessor that has led me to think about what the proponents have allowed themselves to do when they say how it pays young people to take care of their age, and they say literally what they will get in 25 years, what kind of rent, if they now buy the vouchers that will be turned into supplementary insurance policies, for that pension in 25 years. Deception, because today's purchase means a 25-year freeze on its capital, its investments. But let's just leave it. The proposed proposal for the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners is not acceptable for the following reasons: for the following reasons, we are going in a row. The change in the amount of vouchers from 10 to 30,000 by the end of December, which could be exchanged for the supplementary pension policy just before the end of the year, since the deadline is 31.12., would be completely in jest and not a serious thing for this national assembly when it has rejected this proposal once a month in June, and now it wants a certain lobby, not to say rich, but wealthy in such a way that it has lobbyed in the national assembly and found three members who are at his side to propose what is before us today. Now, five minutes before the 12th, this lobby is trying to manipulate - literally, I am not ashamed of this word - this national assembly, that by misleading the public, how it pays those who have money to buy an extra number of vouchers, how it is not worth those who have fewer vouchers, it is said, either up to 1,000 or up to 10,000. And it is too much that KAD has been saying and has already written three times to pension holders up to a number of 1,000 or 1,200 to sell or to purchase them. How can a worker who may have some vouchers today, or a pensioner who has them, get up to 30,000, where to take money at his monthly income of 100,000 tolars or a pension of 100,000 tolars? Tell me which bank, who's going to give it money, a loan to be made in time, even if it's 60 years old on 13 July 2004, starts paying off this loan that he hired when he pays it off, and he's barely going to enjoy the pension that he's supposed to have. What is more, with such deception, that with such an appeal - and who has deepened a little, I have a very comprehensive list of all possible information from credible institutions and it is not difficult to guess why the credit company or now the CAD has purchased 8 million vouchers. Why did she do that? I'm opening your eyes to let you know that today's voucher is worth 252 tolars, and on the stock market it's between 60 and 70 tolars, but sometimes it's been between 25 and 30. And the speculators who then bought them in tens of thousands because they were cheap, there was no limit, and they were calculating, and they did not satisfy themselves with the sales difference from the purchase price to the current stock price to replace them or sell them, but they expect to be materialized in a financial form when they begin to enjoy it. The rest, however, is still under discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much. Mr Leopold Grošelj has the word, the combined list.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u144	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen! At its meeting on 9 May this year, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, following the consideration of the Act amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, further identified the total elimination of the number of pensions per individual natural person, which was not adopted at the extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly on 13 June this year. In the UK Group of Social Democrats at the time, when assessing the reasons for amending the law on amendments to the law, we felt that it might be possible to completely lift the restriction to have negative consequences due to the possible excessive purchases of pension vouchers by individuals and, of course, some of the other reasons set out in the accompanying text in the law. In the UK Group of Social Democrats, we have already assessed that the purpose of the change should be taken primarily from the point of view of the motivation of pension holders and potential other investors interested in the purpose of saving for the period of age. Also from the review of the exercise of the right to exchange up to 10,000 pension vouchers, it can be concluded that the concentration of pensionbons on a individual pensioner was very low, and it may be estimated that such a number of pension vouchers could not provide a higher amount of monthly pensionable income to the individual holder. We also believe that now is the last time to change if we make a political decision to increase the number of vouchers that individuals can buy. We have decided this once before in the National Assembly, in June, when we confirmed the proposed increase with a convincing majority. The deadline for the exercise of the right to exchange up to 30,000 pension vouchers will expire at the end of the year, and if we want to make a change, we must accept it at this meeting, otherwise it will make no sense. Finally, it is probably in the common interest that the first pension fund project significantly consolidates the second pillar of pension savings, as the individual's responsibility for the purpose of saving for the period of age. In the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we mainly adopt these amendments to the Act on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and we will vote for them in most cases. Since we accept these changes just before labor, there are quite a number of opponents in the public eye, who also remind us of the argument against the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u145	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak, Social Democratic Party. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry of Finance! In fact, I cannot agree with the bill-maker if there has been a procedural error in the adoption of the law on the Republic of Slovenia's first pension fund and the purpose of the law is to ensure and contribute to the increase in the number of insured persons in the first pension fund. That's just not true. In fact, I agree and agree with most of the speculations that have taken place at the expense of pension vouchers, not least we believe that the intentional rejection of an increase was part of a scenario that led to the price of pensions being dropped and picked up by KAD. However, why and how is it possible that KAD, as a major institutional investor in the capital market, works intransparency? This is a typical example of non-transparent action. In a public statement issued by KAD on Monday 21 October 2002 in a paid advertisement entitled Public Message, the capital company in the Finance magazine explains in particular two reasons for the non-transparent purchase of KAD vouchers. The first reason for this step is that, after this announcement to the public, he realized that the government had allocated to the first pension fund too little assets for the promised payment of pensions and that KAD, with its assets, should further guarantee her a pension income of 1%. Finally, it should be recalled that KAD is the manager of the first pension fund and is also obliged to provide additional funds for pension and disability insurance. This reason is very clear, then also why KAD decided to purchase the vouchers and thus, of course, also narrow down the number of beneficiaries or narrow down the amount of those who would actually replace the pension vouchers in the supplementary insurance policies. However, the second reason that KAD led to the purchase of the vouchers is that, otherwise, when or if the assets of the first pension fund will be large enough, each pension policy will be worth more, and for those who will have more. In short, it is a real manipulation that will result in a handful of people actually providing additional pension insurance. At the same time, we cannot agree with the proposaler's statement that the main objective and motive was the widest possible circle of insurers and the widest possible circle of these somehow to provide a better life. Last but not least, after the messages sent by KAD, he sent it to me personally, because I own just under 1,000 pension vouchers, we should pay more than 1 million Slovenian tolls to increase from 10 to 30,000, which means that this option is open only to the more wealthy or those that are not at the social bottom or mid-level, but are stronger than that. In short, the matter is, in our opinion, somehow planned. Designed primarily by deliberately manipulating the value of the vouchers and this ransom, a secret buyout that was made by KAD because it was speculative. I think such actions shed a very strange and bad light on the developing capital market in Slovenia. Clearly, those well informed and those associated with the legislative branch of the executive branch can and may have an easier impact on certain decisions. This, of course, also confuses the capital market and, of course, deters potential investors from making major investments in investment funds or other forms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The word has Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Liberal Democracy or its Members proposed the same amendment to the law as we are considering today in June of this year. Then the same LDS did not accept its proposed amendments. We supported them in our parliamentary group. Some felt that there had been a technical error in the LDS Group or, as we have heard today, some procedural problems. Others that the LDS are not uniform within the client. In fact, none of this is true. It is only true that those who have supported this law in 1999 and rejected the June proposal, as well as the amendment submitted by Nova Slovenije and the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia, and are now proposing amendments again, are pursuing other objectives and not those they are formally preaching. The real interest or the first reason of this law, when it was adopted, was to enable the conversion of pids into ordinary stock companies and to pave the way for the continued opaque and unfair concentration of former social capital into the hands of pid shareholders, of course. The evidence of this fact today is also that the amendments to this law are proposed following a reduced procedure so that the Slovenian Coalition does not accidentally try again, as it did in June, to propose the cessation of the further transformation of pids into ordinary shares society. This process goes on indefinitely. The second reason for the adoption of this law in 1999 was to avoid the payment of unpaid salaries to public sector workers who succeeded in the Constitutional Court at that time in their actions against the State. Half the pension vouchers, 72,000 out of a total of 143,000 were issued as compensation for public sector employees. Instead of addressing the essential problem of this legislation, we received a proposal for a law amending the ZZD on 22 October, which, in Article 237, paragraph 1, indicates that the problem of the transformation of the pids will be solved by a specific law that is yet to be made and may come. This story is too old to be trusted again. And why in this strategic story of pid transformation, this game changes the number of vouchers that an individual can exchange for a pension policy. The answer to this question gives us the secret purchase of Kad pensions, immediately after the law was not passed in June. Because he wasn't voted out, the prices went down, and when he bought them, they went up again. The public statement, mentioned by my colleague Andrej Vizjak, which was published in Finance, mentioned two reasons. First, that the property that was brought into the first pension fund is too small for the promised pension payment and should guarantee Kad with his property the income of pension pensions. It is in itself a big question on the so-called self-declared expertise of our government. The second reason for the subsequent apology, however, is that, otherwise, the first pension fund's assets will be large enough, each pension policy is worth more or yields more, and we are guaranteed a 1 % return. And we add: What if a small number of citizens? And who lost and sold their pension cards? These were holders with a small number of vouchers, employed by the public sector or those who did not know that the Liberal Democracy or Kad, who operates, at least operates as a branch of the Liberal Democracy, is planning to propose again in October 2002 an increase in the ceiling to change pension policy vouchers. Those who knew that certainly did not sell them at a low price. As the secret operation of institutional investors, as Kad has afforded it, has been completely different in the countries to which we want to approach them. There, when it comes to publishing or expressing its announcement of the purchase of the vouchers and the government, it should also have its intention to re-present or support it, as we have heard this proposal today. [[...]] [[A warning for the end.]] That is why we will not support him, in Novi Slovenija we will not support him. [[...]] This law, which you will adopt, is therefore a double-crossing fraud against unprivileged citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you very much. It's probably a magic word. Gracner? I have two names, but Mr. Anderlich, I don't know how you agreed. On behalf of the Liberal Democracy, then, Mr Mag. Zoran Gračner. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u150	Dear Vice-President, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished fellow Members! Allow me, on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Group, to present a proposal for a law amending the First Pension Fund Act and reshaping authorised investment companies. Following an already established extension of the period for the replacement of pension benefits into the supplementary pension policy by the end of 2002, the purpose of the proposal for amendments to the law is to increase the possibility to limit the possibility of the replacement of pension benefits for the supplementary pension policy from 10,000 to 30,000 vouchers per person concerned. In doing so, it should be pointed out once again that the supplementary insurance policy brings two important benefits to the owner: on the one hand, owners with an additional 60 years of age after 13.7.2004 bring the right to a monthly pension, and on the other hand, it represents a life insurance policy until the insured acquires the right to a monthly pension. In the Liberal Democracy, we are convinced that the increase in the ceiling on pension vouchers, which can be converted into an insurance policy, from 10,000 to 30,000 in a macroeconomic sense is positive, as it will lead to a shift in funds to additional pension savings and thus to a general increase in savings. For younger generations, however, the change is more interesting in terms of obtaining a cost-effective additional life insurance before gaining the right to a monthly pension. However, in order to achieve the desired effects, the amendment of the law should be applied as soon as possible, as only in this case would the basic purpose of the changes be achieved, which is why we also support the reduced procedure. Only then could they count on a significant increase in the number of insured persons in the first pension fund by the end of this year. For all these reasons, we will support the amendment of the law in the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Podobnik, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware that the legal basis or that some legal concerns in this law are relevant, and I can say in public that, like the first time before, we will vote in this bill by our conscience. So all members of the Slovenian People's Party will not support it. In our opinion, however, the question related to this law is: What will 77,314 individuals do with pensions? In fact, the latest figures are as follows: on 15 October, 102 million additional 406 thousand pension vouchers were in circulation, of which legal persons, including a capital company, owned 14 million, and the remaining pensions belonged, as already said, to more than 35,000 natural persons. Pension vouchers, as has already been said and again to be said, were received by shareholders of authorised investment companies, pids who, in 1999, freely decided to exchange part of their certificate, which they submitted to the pids, for the vouchers. The second group of owners - and this is not discussed enough - were state employees who received pensions in the form of pensions due to their underpaid salaries in the early 1990s. And this group was very large, very large. Something has already been said about this. As a doctor myself, I received 1,178 vouchers from this address. And now, today, in those days by the end of the year, these bon owners decide what to do with them. And when making decisions, we need to examine what the advantage of the shelf is and what its weakness is. Let's look at the weakness first. Weakness is that the state guarantees at least 1% of the annual yield if inflation is high and managers fail to manage the fund, the real value of this rent can eventually be destroyed [[something about the manager, about KAD, maybe later as a member of the debate]] . The second weakness is the upper threshold of the number of vouchers that can be replaced, allowing a relatively low rent. This is 10,000. Today, the law proposes 30,000. The point of motivation is that the rent is such that it allows for a safe age and motivates people to decide. And a third weakness. If the policyholder dies soon after he started receiving the rent, the investment is lost, the heirs cannot buy the policy. And there are the advantages of a shelf. The first is that the state guarantees high security. It's a big advantage. Second, the issuer is an experienced controller, so policyholders can rely on solid yields. I personally believe that KAD is an experienced controller. Thirdly, the possibility of buying a shelf at the time of the insured death and a very favourable relationship between the purchase price and the value of the policy. So what can 77,000 owners do? He's got three options. Either he sells them on the stock market, or he buys them or he buys them, or they stand hand in hand. And even if they stand hand-to-hand, there is a choice, because the law says how many vouchers they already have, 31.12.2002 will be at the level they have, they will reclassify to the level of the additional policy for additional pension insurance. About shopping or shopping. Analysis shows that the vouchers are very suitable for those between 55 and 60 years of age, because they will first receive their rent and they will also be least sensitive to inflation risk. The younger get a higher salary, but at the same time the distance of the first payment increases the risk. The third option is to sell on the stock market. Selling on the stock market – it is an individual’s decision. It will be very important what we today will tell our owners what to do. Now there are some concerns. In the debate of July this year, I mentioned four. Are we changing the conditions for back? Is this an established possibility of lawsuits for the owners of the Piduvian shares to sue? Does this law make it possible for some individuals to make very high profits? With regard to the constitutional question of the change in the back and also of the possibility of actions by the legislative and legal service at that time, and even today, we have not received an answer in our opinion that this could be an argument against this law. The social question is whether we will attract a smaller number of citizens and, above all, the question of whether we will make only a small number of individuals profit, and I would like to talk about this later on when I get the floor as a Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u153	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" Jelinčič. Mr Pece will probably be on behalf of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u154	Your Honors are here! Who's the loser of this story? Mr Bayuk thus concluded his thoughts. The loser of this story is a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia. For the losers, it will be you who will adopt this law. In the Slovenian National Party, we assess that the proposal for a law, an identical proposal, the same proposal as this national assembly has already had the opportunity to adopt this year should not be considered at all. When the leadership of the National Assembly agreed to the theory of re-examination, thereby allowing the prices of this securities or voucher to rise speculatively during that time, the National Assembly or leadership demonstrated one and only one matter, namely that the policy is bribish. I'm sorry, but that's true. Above all, government policy. In our party, we estimate that with the possible adoption of this law, if you are not already with the bill, you will destroy the notion of a social state in our country. And a lot of parties in this country are just saying "social" and transparating in public. You're going a little too far. The law is a typical speculative law, as I mentioned at the outset and what some speakers have already found before me. The law, of course, enables the better to provide an additional income or additional property. The Committee of the National Assembly, the parent working body, agreed with the law. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has upheld the law. Those who are behind the law are easy to see from this. What is the purpose of the law? According to our assessment, it is an agreement with the Capital Society, some other agencies, institutions dealing with securities, how to dispose of small investors or holders of these vouchers. To hold this, it is evident from the basic law that this holds is evident from the developments around the price of this voucher. And a second time. In order to cover up the inability of the Capital Society to cover up their fear of not being able to take over from the old title of the vouchers. Further, about the purpose of how to provide additional assets. If someone so far has not had half a million Slovenian Tolars to invest them, and most Slovenian pensioners, all of whom are so full of mouth, do not have that money. From here, we can see who this law is intended for. This law is intended exclusively for rich and exclusively speculators who have found their support in the Liberal Democracy and the Slovenian People's Party as proponents. The consequences of this marriage will be on two levels. The first is in value. As we know, it is us or the leadership of the National Assembly at this time that makes it possible to speculatively move the price of this voucher. If the price of the voucher is raised, the round of beneficiaries of this voucher will be reduced. What does that mean? To destroy the basic idea of a pension card. The basic idea of a pension voucher was to extend and give people the opportunity because they did not once get some part of their salary to rank or bridge this time barrier in so-called vouchers. By means of this law, the number of beneficiaries or the number of beneficiaries will be reduced and the basic purpose, the category of the institute of this voucher, will be destroyed. And, of course, second. We all know that the purpose of the certificate is to ensure social security for a greater number of citizens and not just the privileged people of this country. But you're doing it today. You are once again privileged to those who are already privileged in this country. Why, for God's sake? And, of course, a social security aspect. The number of citizens who cannot afford this supplement will be regretted. All those who, at the moment or within this time limit you have given for an extension, cannot afford an additional million Slovenian Tolars to decide on this investment. If the proponents had a real purpose, if the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had a real purpose in helping people in this title, they would be extended for the first time more than until the end of the month. Why is this not done by the end of the year in order for people to have the ability to acquire money and enter this game? No, no, no. And the other one-- [[Warning signal.]] I will conclude immediately - to define the records of the original owners. You didn't think of that. Those owners, those people who owned these vouchers and then allow those original owners to sell this voucher by nominal. This would help people who own the vouchers and not what you're doing today. In the Slovenian National Party, of course, we will not support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you. We have thus concluded with the presentations on the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 16 October 2002. One amendment to Article 1. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We have tabled this amendment for this reason - but before I go through it, already the zealous advocates have given me a reason or a reason why we are against it. They said that pensions should be improved. We in the National Assembly have accepted that the difference between the lowest pension and the highest pension is 1:4. Now all solidarity, every reciprocity, when it is allowed for the rich to raise their income and increase the social difference between pensioners, if I only talk about it, and what about the citizens! The second thing is that our amendment is justified primarily because we are already in the debate - and we will prove what it says against this law being passed. The basis is when one of the zealous proponents of this amendment from 10 to 30 said to me: “You have been poisoned with social.” True, I may have been highly poisoned, but I am still as healthy as he is, poisoned by capitalism. With extreme capitalism, which allows the rich to be even richer and the poor to remain socially weak, or, to put it more clearly, financially less capable, to remain at their own level. For the basis of this law is to elevate capital if you have it. Where do those employees, as I said before, have it at 100,000 wages or 100,000 pensions? Where do these people have savings? Maybe they have them and now they are being misled by the proponents of this law by raising their savings, if they do have them, to invest them in this - and there is a great risk and they put them back in my language when they say on the one hand: we want to allow a wider crowd, a larger number of citizens to secure a better, higher rent, and on the other hand, everything points out that they want to narrow down the holders of the vouchers that will turn into the policy of an additional pensioner Where is the logic? [[...]] That's what you tell me, dear advocates. What's the logic here that you want to get small holders of smaller number vouchers, sell this and that to the minority of rich people who are to buy them? The calculation of the first pension fund or the Capital Society is that it receives as few insurance policy holders as possible, that it will be easier at lower cost and increase the additional income only to those who will have it in the corresponding [[...]] We advocate that this ratio remain 10,000, which somehow involves what the Democratic Party of the Retired and its Group of Members has taken. And why in this House we have supported the reduction of the range that was previously the lowest and highest pension 1:4,8 and we have voted by a majority of the votes. Now we do the opposite again, and we want to make richer and richer. Since my colleague also has a chance, we would like to make other arguments not to repeat ourselves, I am giving him the floor below because he still has plenty of time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Who wants a word? Please, Mr. Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u158	Honourable Presidents, government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I would also be involved in this debate myself, and I would like to explain some of my views and our views together. There will be 68 days left on the market and they will be subject to trading, and on 31.12., the deadline for replacing, of course, is running out, and this deadline is somehow also forcing us to say about what we think one and the other. Nothing special at that time would have happened if the law had been adopted in 1999 as it had been adopted - there would have been no restriction, there would have been no restrictions, there would have been trade with vouchers, the market would have done its job, whoever had the money would have bought who didn't have it, can't and is just going through it. But later, there was some finding that someone could speculate with these vouchers, and let's put a limit on -- and you accepted it, and I wasn't here then to accept it -- 10,000. Today, we find out how much $10,000 he's bringing, how much he's renting. Not much, I agree that this limit, which you set at the time, is too low for anyone to decide. But it was consciously set, in order to "prevent speculative purchases of vouchers", was written in the then explanation; someone wrote then from the government, I hear a comment. Today, however, the government does not oppose the movement of this border, it says, then agreed, today does not oppose. All right. And with that limitation, the computer. I think that the current movement will do someone wrong because when he had the opportunity to trade certificates for pension certificates, he could replace them; today he can't, because there are no more certificates. So we're going to do the wrongs to those people, and we're going to try, if I understand correctly, to correct someone's injustice -- I don't see it myself, but we're going to make it back to somebody, because that was the limit. All those who have done the right thing, traded, bought these vouchers up to 10,000, most of them only up to 1,000, because if they had money, probably more, they'd probably turn out a little today - that I won't say, "over wood," those who have speculated so far when the limit that is still in force today are now imposing a change in that limit. So to whom we will listen - those who are always looking for a loophole in marriage are always looking for what they can possibly drive past and "and will then fix the National Assembly and then transform it into a benefit for us to be a wolf full and a goat whole again". To exchange $30,000 in pensions - in voluntary pension insurance bonds - policy, pardon - and to get 30, 40,000 monthly rents, I also feel that there is still some normal limit, because it would only be stimulating someone to do so in order to possibly save, if he had, invested, or even, if he had any credit, and he would do so. But there are too many Cheyenne in our society. If this standard of those who, according to my judgment, were most needed to afford a low pension or low wages and to buy 30,000 vouchers to enjoy this later on, then I would be happy to support it. Most Slovenians will not be able to do so - no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. For economic reasons. So if we had this particular class of people, the younger pensioners, the workers before retirement, the low wages, I think 100,000 is kind of down there, really low pay, the opportunity to buy, then I'd agree with that. But they don't have that option. But this crowd counts hundreds of thousands of potential, even potential candidates for the purchase of vouchers, I'm sure you'd like to buy them very much. And we must also be interested in this population, not just the one who has the opportunity and has the money to buy 30,000. It seems that some of us are only interested in that layer that has enough money, a million 800 with its left hand to buy 30,000 grand that just cost that much. I think we should pay a little more attention to those who do not have these options. I therefore believe that this opportunity for a favourable purchase and replacement and, as a result, of course, the corresponding rents - the very narrow circle of our population. Those who are well placed, who have the money in store, who also have the opportunity to take the loan, because those with the salary or pension of up to 100,000 are not allowed in the bank, because they are not able to get just as credited to 1,800,000, for example, for 30,000 vouchers. I'm sure that's because when I recently rented a loan, it's just so much that they didn't take pictures of my lung on the bank, or send me there, or I'll spend five years just renting a loan. How about someone with 70,000 wages? I don't believe if this change achieves the public interest, so to speak, to serve the majority of the population – then I am in favour. [[…]] But I'm sure you don't. Instead of extending the number of beneficiaries, I believe there will be a reduction. WHEN he already invited those with less than 1,000 grand to resell them or buy them, and if they had no opportunity to buy them, they would sell them. So that they have at least some of that money from today because they don't know what he's going to buy in the winter tomorrow, or some chicken oil or something like that, and he's going to say, at least I pulled something out of it. But the ones with the money will go to the market and, of course, they will buy. If we do not change the conditions again just before the end of this period, as we have done many times, we cannot correct those who would have done so in return, but yes in the future. With this change, we will again be pleased with those who have speculative motives, which now also affect the reform of the law, because they have so many more vouchers in the back; the National Assembly will if it changes its decision to the benefit of this narrow group of people. In my judgment, the National Assembly will become so reputable when it first adopts the law, without any restriction, then someone senses that the restriction needs to be imposed and accepts it again, and then again someone feels that the restriction is too low and once again accepts the change. We play too often and adapt to the course of daily or monthly events. That the population doesn't have enough money, I'm looking at that majority with lower incomes to invest in their social security, higher social security, higher standards, they're showing us how many vouchers someone has. Daima out of 80 about 1,000 holders of 70,000 less than 1,000 vouchers, this shows us how many people have had the opportunity to help them through this, so that they can help themselves and buy the vouchers. And of those 70,000, I think at least most of them will sell. None or almost none of these hundreds of thousands of people, which I have talked about before, who would really need additional pensions, can be indebted in the short term because they simply do not have this option. Exceptionally, it will be possible to get the credit back to those who have the basis, just as some in this country have bought a loan to buy shares and guaranteed the shares they will buy for this loan. Would anyone give our potential younger pensioners, pre-retirement workers, the opportunity to get a loan with a guarantee of the vouchers for which they will receive the loan? No, not that. It was, in my opinion, just one person who did this tremendously. No Slovenian bank will just give these layers a million eight hundred thousand credits so that we can buy 30,000 more today and thus achieve the goal that will be achieved by the other if we change this law. When proposing amendments and supplementing this law, I therefore do not see the public interest of Slovenian society, but this should be the aim of any law, unless this interest, public interest, in our heads is already narrowed down to just a few people, in this case to a few hundred, I heard before this debate, or perhaps several thousand out of 2 million people in Slovenia. And with this change, I'm sure, as stated in the explanation of the law, the targets will not increase the circle of insurers. And this is what the proponent has put at the forefront to extend the circle of insurers, and I believe that we will only reduce them further. That's why I can't decide to support this marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Dr. Bayuk has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We are considering amending the First Pension Fund Act. I think it is very important that we stop at this concept for at least a few moments because when this was proposed in the National Assembly, the professional public actually approved it and accepted it with great joy because it was a step in the right direction. It means that we will create the opportunity for people to save, and also to increase our domestic savings, and that we will also develop our domestic capital market through this. Nice. I regret that this story ends so sadly. In fact, she's already started sad. Because today, when we look back at how the government actually went about this business, we need to find that it never meant exactly what it always said was an increase in savings, a greater security in the future of the new generation and, of course, a development of the domestic capital market. Because if I believed that, if this were actually the goal, I would certainly not have done what it was that it had hung this responsibility on the Capital Society, but it did not provide them with enough assets when the moment came to fill this sad privatisation gap. These are planning things, they don't just happen. And today we understand that that first pension fund finally had only one goal that I had already pointed out when I spoke on behalf of the parliamentary group, and that was that in a hidden article there was a change of attitude that was taken by the State Assembly in 1998, when it froze up by the time the system law came in, frozen the transformation of pids into shares. At that time our colleagues knew well; but when this law was passed on behalf of beautiful goals, they also accepted it! And I still can't understand how this really happened today. When I looked at the magnetograms, nobody debated this thing, it went underground, it wasn't talked about openly. Well, now we have this sad story. Because let's do this act of toying with people. Our Group of Members - we supported it in June. Well, so be it. Government, Mr. Secretary has been here and he's been talking, yeah, something's up, something's up. We said: well, let it be if it helps us to have a little more solid capital fund, to increase savings and to introduce some greater credibility in our capital market. And I'm asking you why there was no more interest - because people unfortunately don't believe. They don't believe in our institutions, and you know why they don't believe -- because they know that things like today's proposal are still happening. That the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment, whether it has been a procedural problem or indeed the will of the majority, but we are now proposing it again through the side doors. But in the meantime, when the price went down once, did KAD buy - from whom? - Yes, of those poor people who have already explained to them in writing, if you don't have more than 1,000, it's not worth it at all - do something! You know, people know it's hard to believe. And if we don't create credibility, where do we fuck our country? I ask you how we can imagine the future of the domestic capital market, but if we do things like this today? That the government has actually supported this game and that it does not see any problem, they see no problem. Yes, gentlemen, if you don't see the problem, then it will be worse for us all in the future. This proposal is impeccable because the people who decided to sell did not know about it. And this change in the rules of the game in the middle of the game, because some friends are going to get rich or because even the KAD is going to get better cut off, we already have a hunch that there are problems in KAD. I would like to see that this National Assembly will once again receive clear accounts of where KAD is and what responsibilities they have imposed on him so far. How important that would be! But it is mainly about the credibility of the Slovenian state.We cannot and must not play with people like that. Once we say something, sell it, then change it, and some will smile. And they're the same. One and the same gentlemen who always know early what's going to happen, and then we wonder when we read in the paper, say 50% profit for five managers. That's it. This is our reality and this is supported by this national assembly if this proposal is accepted. I am almost certain that, after hearing the presentations of the parliamentary groups now, this voting apparatus will work again and that you will legitimize it. But the consequences for the development of the domestic capital market will be very severe. Then we will not be surprised and should not be surprised - but I will not tolerate talking about the national interest when we are at the same time excited about this national interest and this is where our people will invest. We push them just to trust a foreigner, never to the locals, because they know well that locals can change the rules of the game and legally play 70,000 people. What's all this for? Because some people do. Yes, I believe it does. I want everyone to earn as much as they can and to do well. But not on the shoulders of others. Not on the shoulders of others! And instead of actually dealing with that essential problem, how we're going to reshape, or we're going to continue to let ourselves be transformed into a pid stock company -- and that's really the core of the problem -- and we have these games. We've got these games. The government will send us, - a few days ago we have received - a proposal for a law which the Minister of State has promised to resolve in this House. The first paragraph of Article 237 states that he shall keep the old law until a new law arrives. That's the kind of story. There's a system law already in preparation. We've heard too many times. This is what our colleagues heard in 1998 when they temporarily froze the implementation of the original law, which allowed in ten years perhaps the transformation of pids into share societies. And they said, "Let's freeze because this marriage is already coming." In 2002, the marriage is still coming. And we don't know when he'll be here. How do we imagine the development of the domestic capital market by such behaviour and by doing so? I am deeply concerned that our government has also supported this proposal, which will essentially legitimize dishonesty: dishonesty of conduct, intransigence of institutions in the public market. That's not supposed to happen, but it's happening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Sponik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Allow me to take a brief look at the proposal to amend this law as one of the signatories to this law. For several days now, I have been reminded by my well-respected fellow Member Ivan Kebrič that today we have a sharp duel in the National Assembly on this subject, and I will try to respond to some of his concerns, which he has just said, including his fellow Member Pohorec, but it is true that we must bear one another. Whatever we think, we really need to move and try to talk about the content on the agenda. Next, I would like to say that in these days I have read all the transcripts - even in the past - and of course there will be no misunderstanding when the first proposal came into the procedure four years ago, there was no restriction. Then the amendment of the United List came and an agreement was reached quickly and there was a limitation. Here's a thought I'd like to correct Mr. Pohorc. And one more thing. I very much appreciate you, Mr Vice-President, Mr Pohorec, but on your working body you rightly said that you were almost in favour of a legal solution in July and that you later came to some other points of view within your party and I very much appreciate such an open position. I really appreciate this open attitude. But I must say that I speak here with all the credibility I can overcome, I am not a representative of any lobby, none of the speculators turn to me, only a few pension card owners turn to others and convince me not to support this law. So I was lobbied by those who speak like you, Comrade Kebrich. So I am not an exhibit of any unusual interests in the country, in the Republic of Slovenia. Thirdly, I would like to say quite frankly that when I read this public notice from the Capital Society on Saturday it would be very good for all Members to read it, it would be very good - then I also addressed the Director of the Capital Society in writing and asked him for some additional information and he gave it to me very correctly. And this is an excellent cut in the operation of the Capital Society, through the operation of everything that was going on in the first pension fund, the structure of investments, why they decided to buy it, and then I'll say it later, because it doesn't have any confidentiality. Of course, the question remains open: by what principle have they decided only for two companies, and that they have bought pension vouchers - the question remains why - by what principle, what was the commission - this is an open question for KAD. An open question. Now, at this event of yours, the question that's related to the situation is, what would happen if you were left with 10,000 vouchers -- top number. That's a question for me. What's the difference? What difference does it make if it's 10,000 or 30,000? And allow me to quote the performance of Minister Rob at the July session when he spoke about this issue, but the topic is present today and here. Citation: "The question is whether any other limit is permissible than the one originally created is 10,000 vouchers, and in fact our opinion was," the government's opinion, "that this is also a matter of assessment by the legislator, in particular because the fact that, on the basis of the mechanism we had, there has been a large dispersion of the number of pension vouchers, and so we can see that the average number of pensions per holder is 1,200. It's a real fact. This means, of course, that individuals, assuming that no additional concentration will be possible, have very little chance of doing anything with these pensions, will also sell them very hard because the concentration will not be allowed." This is an argument - answer me this argument - it will be very difficult to sell these vouchers if there is no motivation for concentration to occur. What does that theoretically mean? The calculations I have here now show that if 30,000 vouchers were available, someone who is 50 years old would have paid a rent of about 34,000 tolars; if 10, it would mean that they would have a good 10,000 tolar rent. So someone who only has a tenth of this - and we said that a large majority of these are - would have only a good 1,000 tolar rent and should have waited for the realization of those if they were slightly younger. A 41 - year - old who has 3,800 or 3,000 tolls should have waited 25 years for any of this to come. In short, in terms of liquidity, it is likely that it is justified and does not reduce the rights of those who, for example, have only 1,000 vouchers if we allow them to sell these vouchers. Your statement about a sociality, about injustice, and about the hard words that have fallen here, would have had all the weight if it had not been for the upper limit. The upper limit is 30,000. And now, I'm not a lawyer of the Capital Society, let me comment in the context of my behavior, the intervention of the Capital Society in this event. I interpret it as bona fide, for the best of purposes. If there are other purposes, I don't know about them; I can be naive, but I believe this letter signed by the Magi. Lenic, I believe him. The first thought: "The purchase of pension vouchers by KAD was a gesture in the spirit of a good master, since KAD acquired more than 2 billion SIT with this purchase, which will ultimately result in the welfare of the Republic of Slovenia or the insurers of the first pension fund." Here's the lock. Here the debate opens, what does it mean, that 7,000 have now replaced them, what will this number be - this is a political issue. But the fact that there will be more of them and that they will have such an income that their age will truly be richer is also a political issue. Next: "The decision to purchase was based on the difference between the guaranteed value of the point and the market value of the pension voucher." This difference has long been known to all investors because more important data are publicly available. And here Mr Lenič says in advance: "I believe that this move has not come under general approval, but the interests of market participants can be objectively different." And that's true. From the moment the vouchers entered the stock market, their path is different. It is also a matter of whether we, as Members of State, have accepted the functioning of the stock exchange. There is nothing illegal about risking the stock exchange, including speculating under the permitted rules. But it would be unjust and illegal if the legislator, the national assembly, had intervened in any way and had saved someone who had planned. If you prove to me that this is our purpose, then he'll give you the right. You didn't convince me from your shows. From your performances, you didn't convince me that our 30,000 jump meant that we took the side of those who speculated. There's also very detailed information in all classes of how many vouchers someone has. It's very detailed information. And of course, this one speaks, as we said before, that up to 1,000 of them are 74,000. Between 10,000 and 20,000 there are 378, and between 20,000 and 30,000 there are 87. And then all the data is that I don't want to read any further, there's two of them that have between 310 and 320,000. You were definitely taking a lot of risks buying this. They risked a lot. Whatever the decision of today's National Assembly will be taken, and of course, I don't know, it's obviously two natural persons, because he's talking about natural persons here. And I conclude: Repeat the mag. Lenič, "that we are not in conflict with the interests of the insurers of the first pension fund and our owner of the Republic of Slovenia." Now only from the last part of this information to the public. If the net asset value is higher than the guaranteed value of the asset, the capital company will increase the value of the insurance unit by purchasing pension vouchers on its behalf and on behalf of the first pension fund. That's one option. In the event that the net asset value is less than the guaranteed value of the asset, the capital company shall be obliged to provide additional missing assets from its own assets. And here you have to admit that this argument stands, which says: “By buying pensions on behalf of and on behalf of the Capital Society, the Capital Society, as the manager, reduces its obligation to the first pension fund.” I will conclude this performance with the conviction that it is a question of what will be done by 77,000 pension holders. That's a question, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u163	The mistake was made. So you still have five minutes. Mr. Kebrich, please. You have a few more minutes, I think.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thank you, Mr. Chairman. A short replica. Because I know that it is at the expense of our 15 minutes, which are still available for debate on Article 1, the amendment and so on. Mr. Squirrel! I do not wish to discuss with anyone in this national assembly personally, but I want to discuss with everyone the content that one or the other advocates. However, I will explain our arguments further, additional arguments. I also do not want to discuss intergenerationally to talk about the young generation as such, because our password is that the Democratic Party of Pensioners is for all generations and we want to open our eyes to what is going on or what would happen. It's not about standing up for these 77,000. It's a mistake, it's a deception to the public. It is a whole Slovenian population that can now buy vouchers on the stock exchange, which will turn into an extra insurance policy on 1 January and 31.12. It is not that we are accused of using ourselves and fighting for these 77,000 or 70,000 of those who have below or up to 1,000. That's not what this is about. This is about Slovenian citizens, from the youngest to the oldest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Who wants another word? Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you very much. I want to tell you some facts, just like I see them. They don't have to be completely accurate, but I would tell them because I would say they're thinking about my final decision. Now it's the shortest, without being more general. First of all, thank you, Mr Podobnik, for correcting Mr Vice-President. The law without restriction has never been adopted. With our amendment, a limit of 10,000 was adopted at that time, in the belief and opinion that it is right that, among other things, the pension depends on the working age and the contributions at that time, but not only on the purchase, and for the reason that the creation of the first pension fund would not allow for speculative purchases at that time. The number was later agreed together in the National Assembly after major debates and I do not hope today to say whether 10,000 was real or not. However, I am still convinced that the restriction was necessary and that it is right that we have accepted it. Second, expectations, first, the creation of the first pension fund. We have not been very open and full of greetings in the United Nations. There were two reasons why not. First, because it meant continuing the procedure by which money was not provided for peds, but again it was said: let us transfer part of these pension vouchers to the fund and manage them there, so the practice that we condemned or objected to for a few years is now a little excessive, but year after year it is really a burden to fill the privatisation hole. And second of all, why we weren't happy. We were not satisfied because the State's obligation to service certificates and should in principle be properly paid with interest was placed in the pension fund, even without interest, only nominally. And by doing so, the country then, I would say, has deprived the citizens of two points for some correctional relationship. I fear that, among other things, this was the reason that the first pension fund did not meet the expectations of the State. Why? Because the service certificates were automatically transferred to the fund. And no one could think about whether or not to give it into the fund was transferred. And he still has it today, if he didn't do it in the middle of it or maybe sell it out. With regard to the transfer of certificates, pid shares to the first pension fund, the country's disappointment - in my opinion - was considerable because only 5% of the total pid assets were transferred. And these two, ladies and gentlemen, are the reason why the value of the vouchers is so scattered. The official values were very low and the transfer of certificates was also a maximum of 3,800. That's when no one got more. From here on out, shopping started. And from here on out, it started operating as soon as possible and trading these securities. What's the situation now, I take it? I'm sure they don't all have the same interest. Very young people do not have it, older people who do not expect it for at least 10 years or for sure cannot count on more than 10 years to live, but they probably also have a high risk of paying it, and later after a short period of retirement they will die and, I would say, they will not receive this additional pension. But the total value, as we have the data at our disposal, allows for a maximum of around 7,400 or 7,600 voucher holders to be able to make the difference that exists now. I don't think you could get more than 2,500 of these. Is that what this bill is worth — I don't know. Or there's a lot else in the back, and that's what worries me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u167	Mr. Pohorec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm about to get involved in this debate. I will correct my statement and thank you both for warning me about this. Indeed, the law, when it came to the National Assembly in 1999, did not contain a proposal for a restriction, so it should be said that the government did not propose a restriction, but someone else did - because now they know, but I do not intend to criticize anyone here - someone thought it would be a good restriction to set. And with the amendment, there was this limitation. Thank you both for reminding me that there would be no misstatement. I am even judging, now that I see what this 10,000 is bringing, that the limit has been excessive, too low - I will be realistic - that only 30,000 vouchers will bring some value, for which it is worth to go even in debt, possibly, or to invest in savings. That's what I'm saying. In June, I was with my colleague Kavčič when I even co-signed the amendment, indeed, so I wouldn't want to hide anything or be this way once, otherwise. In the meantime, of course, there was also a lot of information and information that I didn't know before, and now we see what the situation is - that for these vouchers there was no great interest, no wider public interest here. If we have two million people in Slovenia, we find that only 80,000 people have bought vouchers and of these 70,000 less than 1,000 vouchers, which is so low that they are almost not worth having. And I really admit that KAD will have more administrations with them than they will benefit from - for some 100, 200 or 500 to 1,000, maybe up to, I don't know, maybe the 3,000-bon limit is worth working with administratively. I agree with that. But perhaps the next question - what did we do to tell people to stimulate them, to also allow them to give them some opportunities to do so at that time? [[four years from this law or three years from now]] You bought to tell them. We're years ago -- or you're the one who's been here for a long time -- passed the law on the sale of apartments, the law of Jasbinski. Yes, at the time we did, the country gave these people an opportunity with various forms of long-term repayment to get to these apartments as residents and buy them there. There was nothing taken care of about these vouchers; at least I do not have this information, if anyone has it, I would also like to know that I will be better educated. For all these reasons, then you come to change your mind, I'd say, looking and convincing you - you also have the right to change your mind. But I don't resent anyone else's views. They have every right to such views. I will say again: if there were no restrictions then, today we would not discuss this, it would be the subject of a pure development on the market, like with other shares - if you had money, you would buy it if you didn't "feed" again - and we would have less to do with it now. I don't think I've hurt anyone personally in my debate. But if I gave an example of how it was possible for someone to take a high credit and guarantee it with what they would buy with this loan - you know what I mean, who I think, and there was a lot of writing about it. Yes, let's give these people in some way - when buying shares at some big famous Slovenian company and so on, but it's not an item right now. These people I was talking about don't have a chance to get a regular loan, they don't have a chance because go - we can still go to the bank, but I already had a problem, they barely trusted me with one loan. I don't know. I don't know if I'm gonna be pushing this land or anything for a while. Where a pensioner is going to be 70, 80 years, there's no way he's going to get a pension, and then there's no way he's going to get a pension. He won't! And if we are now talking about the interest of a group of people who would have and would have picked up - normally, if the border were to be moved, then we have to think equally about that large group, which will not really have this option. From this sociological point of view, I set my debate straight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Does DeSUS have any more time? There is. Here you go, Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you for your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u171	One minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u172	Dear colleague Potts, you have led me to say that the whole thing, as you have done, is in my mind that it can be constitutionally disputed. For when it was offered that the certificates in the pids, which had been submitted in one way or another, could be changed or converted into pension vouchers, the limit of 10 thousand already applied. And no one has been able to do what we now allow to others, up to 30,000. We also give pidom an opportunity - if the majority vote on this amendment of this law - the possibility of being sued because they did not have the opportunity to change the certificates in large numbers into pension vouchers. We retrogradely change the rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u173	Mr. Companion. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Comrade Pohorec, I fully support and sign what you said in the second act. All of it. And in fact, you also admitted as a man who was active, even in the economy, that it was a question and a dilemma. And I fully support your thinking. And it's nice to meet you! And even if any more difficult word has fallen, this is the normal way in Parliament. Just that she's not insulting. Your performance was slightly less intense than your colleague, Kebrich, and this is about character traits that enrich the debate and our house. And there's nothing wrong. But you gave me two good points. What have we done to ensure that more owners of the vouchers will decide? First thing to do with them. And now I'm going to, not think of it as provocation, I'm going to read again or I'm going to repeat one sentence that says: that the almost unanimous opinion of all those who deal with the same issues is the following. If someone is healthy, within the context of the possibility and behaviour that he is healthy, aged 50 to 60 years and has saved some money, buying additional vouchers is the cheapest way to a pension in Slovenia. Now I'm asking you what we've done. If you are asked what to do by people who have 1,000 vouchers, what to do in these days? What will we say to them? Or if I'm a little more provocative. Without any indignation, close to 20,000 natural persons in Slovenia will receive the benefits of selling Lek in the following month. What will be our message to these people? Either they put cars here, apartments, because many of them are also between 50 and 60 years old, or we tell them that they will receive a very good investment if they exchange part of this purchase for pension vouchers. The first performance, the first round, this first plaza that happened, this pogrom, is those who have fallen in the national assembly so bad words and people really do not take the national council - I am not talking about you, Mr. Pohorec, but some colleagues before you have used strong words. [[...]] If you do, people don't trust, not the first pension fund, and they say, it's all suspicious. And they won't decide anything. For nothing. Do you not think it would also be politically responsible to try to unify itself, that it is a message to the Slovenian public, that thinking about a safe age, but perhaps with all due respect for those who have financial problems and are not few, that is, family solidarity, that is how Slovenian families work - old parents, parents and children. But maybe they can manage a million tolars together and a million tolars together, and that'll be a good investment. The best investment for a safe age may be their old father or uncle. Or an uncle. Isn't this also an easy message for this debate? I'm expecting this message, and that's why I signed this law. And that's why the marriage isn't bad and I'll back him up. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you. Mr. Kavčič, five minutes as a motioner.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u176	Thank you very much. So I am pleased that quite a few colleagues have remembered that we have practically decided to invest in this law after a complication before allowing this increase to be accepted and then transported. In the meantime, at least as far as I and the proponents are concerned, there's nothing dramatic. There has been no major conspiracy in this interim period, and the circumstances have not changed from this point of view, of course. However, some of the discussions went in some direction, which, in my view, made it too difficult to think, to expect from this law. This is a small, friendly law that, of course, cannot solve global problems, many of which have been said here. This is a law that only moves in the area of the third pension pillar. The principles of the three pension pillars are the principles that have been adopted in this national assembly and, of course, this law can only move in this context, cannot be extended. I'd just like to try and explain some of the misunderstandings. The thesis that it's about fooling people into maybe getting something in 25 years is not true. This law, as we have seen for several years, also in the prospectus of this first pension fund, has a so-called life insurance component that enables in an accident, which is what happens in life insurance: if someone dies, the effect of this insurance immediately. This is also the obligation of the First Pension Fund to form critical assets for such cases. When I spoke about insurance or savings, of course, the ratios apply exactly the same, both to the smallest insurers and to the largest ones. By the way, for those mentioned by Comrade Sponik, 200,000, 300,000, for those of course this law means nothing. I have to make it clear once again: we have not engaged in any way in proposing this law with speculative interests and circles. We are interested here in the average Slovenian who would like to provide him with up to 30,000 tolars of monthly retirement or an interesting relationship in the case of life insurance, because it is a relationship between the premium and the payoff, that is, the ransom, the value of a shelf that reaches almost 1:4 and is one of the most favourable proportions. It is, of course, and this law is not even foretold to represent what some wanted to see: a solution for all. It's a solution that's just a limited range. So the law has been conceived from the beginning. So it's not a big conspiracy, as far as KAD is concerned. I must say that our contacts with KAD were at this level, as explained by Comrade Podobnik. We have received, like all other parliamentary groups, an accessible analysis of the situation with pensions and the first pension fund. According to available data, the business of KAD, even in this case, as in others, appears to be professional and responsible. I therefore believe that this modest proposal for a law should be supported without any bad feeling.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you for your word. A brief replica to Dr. Similarus, only in this: we did nothing because we didn't want to deceive citizens or buy or sell. For the law was clear, and we had no need to add or say anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? No more than the parliamentary groups that have declared time for discussion. So I guess not. We still have a few minutes. So I ask all the others who have not yet discussed whether they want a word. Mr. Kelemina. Excuse me. Anyone else? Mr. Battelli, Mr. Diaci. By this order. 13 minutes, say, about a bad 4 minutes will eventually come. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you for your word. As an unannounced, I will shorten the debate. I can't talk much. But I think it's important to draw attention to that, so I don't think anyone's warned today. Pointing to the fact that, if I'm not mistaken, the nominal value of this voucher was estimated at 100 tolars and that for each voucher, the state would give 20%, if I'm not mistaken. That is why, when we adopted this law, we thought that if the government was so generous that it would give about 200,000 dollars, about the nominal value, to distribute it as evenly as possible throughout the country; otherwise, it would not give power out of its pockets, out of its money, but would give taxpayers the money essentially where it would take it, it would be known that no one would think that it would give power out of its pocket. Well, and now, if there's a purchase of 30,000 grand, then it's actually going to be 600,000, so to speak, tolar's contribution to the government or to the state or whatever you want. Again, what some have pointed out today is that then those who have money that are rich will be able to be much richer; I fully agree with that. The fact is, a lot of people can't buy these vouchers, and the question is, if they're ever sold by the end of the year, we'll see. But it's the fact that some people do have money, and we know who. Perhaps some Members, especially now that they are able to "fowl" in the morning and afternoon when they do not have to be here in the National Assembly, especially those who have their own businesses and from ministers to secretaries of state - because we know these things - or their mediators or their wives. Some Members, I know, have data, have certain shares in individual companies. They're not even going to buy vouchers because they've got bigger returns in other places. Then there are those who are after five supervisory councils, as well as those who receive huge prizes, including a million euros, if necessary, and so on. They're not going to buy tickets because they have too many returns elsewhere. What bothered me the most was that Mr. Kebrich was so angry. I was almost scared, here in the National Assembly, of what would happen if we made him too angry. However, I must say that as a social Democratic party we have advocated lowering the pension ratio to one to three, but you have been far from the point of view, and I think it would be more social and fairer. But you've been away against and you're [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] rich layers, so now I'm wondering if you're against this because you don't have the money to buy these vouchers, or else you would definitely buy them. [[...]] Well, that's what I was gonna say. In short, it will be that, after this 20% state has committed to the owners of the vouchers, they will be even richer in this account than they already are today. We shouldn't have forgotten about that either, I just wanted to warn you about that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In fact, I have one question, and I apologize if this question will issue my objectively indivisible knowledge of such matter, financial and so on. It seems particularly relevant to me to decide here: whether this operation will ultimately lead to the first pension pillar being burdened. Because if he's not actually burdened, then I tend not to support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. Diaci.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you for your word. Let us be very clear: this law does not allow for virtually nothing for younger generations, but the fact is that it was not intended for this generation. Nevertheless, I believe that the purpose of the law, or raising the limit to 30,000, was to help people between 55 and 60 years of age who were undervalued ten years ago; that was one of the reasons. That is why I also supported the marriage or the raising of the borders in June, and I thought this was true for a long time. However, I think the error occurred in 1999 when this border was unstimulatingly set, which shows or has also shown practice and non-interest in these pension vouchers. But in the debate, I found quite a few things. In particular, I think that a few days before the expiry of the deadline, the change does not make sense that there is largely an asymmetry of information, which is not good, that change adversely affects stability and trust in the stock market due to changes in rules. But if I may, I'd like to ask myself another question. In addition to a change or a rise in the border, why did they not also propose an extension of the deadline, which would be the most prudent of all because of what I have just mentioned, and this is an asymmetry of information? Please, if they can answer me. But I won't support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u185	Mr. Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you for your word. On the question of colleague Battelli, or the operation, I think that colleague Battelli meant with this capital fund operation, means unloading the first pension fund, is my answer yes. And of course, my answer comes from a publicly published press release, which reads: “The analysis of the current state of affairs shows that the purchase of pensions is one of the ways to effectively manage the risks arising from the management of the first pension fund and the obligations of the first pension fund’s insurance policy.”
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you very much. Is there any chance that the proposer might be in relation to what was said at the end?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u188	On the question?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u189	Mrs. Diacia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u190	Yeah. With regard to the extension of the duration. Of course, that's logical thinking. We also tried to consult KAD about this solution, but it was explained that the date of 16 July 2004 was already so close that further postponement of the start, thus extending the deadline caused serious difficulties in starting the operation of the first pension fund. In addition, an assessment has been made that, in the last period, if ever, the behaviour on the issue of the first pension fund, pensions and supplementary insurance possibilities has been increased so that, even after the assessment of the capital company, this period, approximately two months before the end of this year, allows for the realization and significantly more successful completion of the first pension fund project than it would have been if this law had not been adopted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you very much. Replicas are not possible because this part you used is outside the set of questions. Those who still have time can talk, but not for long. Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u192	Yeah, I'd just like to take another look at the issue of benefit or no benefit. It must be expensive for the first pension fund to have a large number of low value holders or a number of vouchers. That's why he offered to sell them. At the moment he offered it, within two days the value of the vouchers went down by 12 percent and people did not want to sell them so massively. So it's just that you don't know when it's gonna be. And vice versa. All those who would buy them eventually say we'll buy them if they're not too expensive. By saying in advance that this law will benefit the Fund, I do not hope. It will benefit if there is an appropriate balance between demand and supply.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you very much. I see two more hands, Mr Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I hope it wasn't a misunderstanding, and I didn't misinterpret myself. I was interested in the possible first-pillar unloading. He's got no connection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you. These things are not related, but perhaps Mr Kavčič as a proposer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u196	Maybe just this, this three-pillar system, of course, means this third pillar, which, under the third pillar, moves around this first pension fund, while the first pillar represents an intergenerational insurance system. And, of course, it's hard to say here, the influence is one thing and the other. However, we can risk assessing that if a certain part of the insured population has better insurance under the third pension pillar, the indirect pressure on the first pension pillar is likely to be slightly lower. However, this is not so large a number that these influences could be very large.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u197	We've got one more minute. Mr. Diaci wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you. What Mr Potč said gives a logical answer to my previous question. It was also logical to extend the time period when the border was raised. At least half a year or even for one year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u199	But we have discussed this extensively in the previous version of this same law. I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be voted on in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today at 20.15. The assembly will then proceed with the third consideration of the bill. This also interrupts this agenda item. And in two minutes, we're moving on to point 24.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u200	Please calm down. We're done here. Can I? Thank you. We're moving on to 24. At the end of the day, it's the first defence proposal for a building law. Once again, I ask you to close the debate by group. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, a group of ten Members, first signed by Irmo Pavlinič Krebs, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. I therefore give the floor to the representative of the Government, the Minister for the Environment, Space and Energy, Mr Janez Kopač for the introductory interpretation and supplementary interpretation of the law. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members and Members! As I am sure you are aware, the proposal for a law on the construction of buildings, which I am presenting today, replaces that text of the bill tabled by the Government's second reading procedure in July this year. The new bill does not differ significantly from the previous one, except in one thing that I will explain later, but it is true that, here I must sincerely admit, the comments of the Law Service and the comments made by individual Members or, there were so many comments by individual Members, I can say, the very same comments that we considered to be well-intentioned and quality amendments or amendments that we decided not to force ourselves forward with a text that would require a whole series of amendments, but simply to replace the text with the amended ones. However, the new bill, like the previous one, sets out demanding, less demanding and simple objects, which differs from the July text in that for simple objects such as fences, auxiliary facilities for their own needs, temporary facilities, training facilities, auxiliary infrastructure facilities and auxiliary agri-land or fishing facilities, memorial landmarks, urban equipment and so on, all of these are simple facilities and will not then require notification of parts by decision, but an investor at local level will have to obtain local information from the municipality, which will contain information on how the municipality in spatial plans determines the conditions for this construction. And if the construction is consistent with the location information, he can start without a specific decision. But if he doesn't, of course he won't be allowed to start. In this way, in fact, the municipalities are given a very good instrument to monitor developments in space and, on the other hand, avoid excessive bureaucracy in things that have not really needed as much official treatment as they have been given so far. I must say, specifically this proposal, which is now different in relation to the July text, came from the initiative of Ambassador Irma Pavlinič Krebs, which is her idea, which, of course, we have taken with great pleasure. I must say that in individual administrative units 60% of all their work so far has been devoted to the issue of the decision to notify works, and that after this new text, as we have now seen among individual employees in administrative units, we have experienced, you will not believe, some kind of negative reaction because they said, "What are we going to do now?" In short, they were afraid that their work would begin to run out. This, of course, does not concern me, for they will be able to make a better commitment to what is really important, the building permit. The starting point for which simple objects I mentioned above will be written down or already recorded in the law, and later these facilities will be further specified in the sub-legislative act. Spatial implementing acts for such simple objects and works will lay down formal conditions and thus allow the construction of buildings to be adapted to local characteristics or specificities. In the new bill, the Ministry clarified two concepts, namely the change of destination and the change in the use of the facility. The change of destination is defined as a greater change when the use of one or more premises changes substantially, for example from a residential facility to an economic facility. In this case, the investor needs a building permit. However, the scope of the dossier will be very different. If there are no construction operations, no project documentation will be required. All of this has now required a whole set of different static assessments, installation plans and so on, although in such cases it may be said that not one single construction or craftsmanship operation has occurred. Nevertheless, all that was costly was necessary, timeless, and unnecessary. Since time haunts me, I will be very brief, even though I still have a quarter of the written speech left. I just want to thank you sincerely for your good cooperation. I would like to stress in particular that this law was created in some kind of co-production, if I may say so, between the government and the Members. Unlike many laws, where Parliament is more or less an observer, I can say that it really was created in cooperation with or through joint work. Since the purpose of the proposed law is, in particular, to ensure that the investment intentions of you, honourable Members and Members, are realized more quickly than ever before, I ask you to support the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Before that, I would remind you that the announced debate of LDS is 15 minutes, SDS 30 minutes, the United List of Social Democrats 10 minutes, Slovenian People's Party 30 minutes, New Slovenia 10 minutes, DeSUS 10 minutes, Slovenian National Party 15 minutes, Youth Party 5 minutes and proposer 5 minutes already spent. The time frame of the debate of each parliamentary group shall be summed up so that the presentation of views and the debate of Members means a common time. We'd just like to move on to a presentation on the positions of the members of the groups. First, I give the word to DeSUS and Ivan Kebrich. I ask for the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u203	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! Dear Minister, your associates! In the DeSUS Group, we discussed thoroughly the need to amend the current law. We have seen that this proposal actually simplifies certain things, so to speak, not only administration, but even bureaucracy. That's to say hello. On the other hand, we only consider that it would be useful to amend matters in certain articles with amendments. You don't think we're just like members of the coalition with everything we agree on. We have from our sources, both from the construction profession and from the sources of the profession of architects, certain comments that we believe are justified. We have already stated that they have been taken into account, but not yet determined. And we hope that after the discussion in the second reading with the amendments, the matter will be further improved. Because we want this law to be valid for some time then, and to citizens when building new buildings, with reconstructions and everything else, to shorten, essentially, the time to obtain certain necessary documents, because we all advocate that it concerns construction more or less, if it is only reconstruction, of course less, if it is a new construction, it requires land. And in this case, we have to be very cost-effective to leave enough of the rest of the land for both agriculture and recreation and for everything else to the craftsmen. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you for this opinion from the Group of Members. Following is the position of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Mr. Leopold Groschel will hand it over instead of Janka Vebra. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, Secretary of State with colleagues! Despite the fact that the Construction Act of 1996 has undergone a series of amendments and additions, it still contains a number of solutions in its contents which, despite the conditions of social planning, are also difficult to comply with the applicable legal regime. In its assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, the Government, as a bill-maker, cited a number of reasons for the adoption of the law, which in fact radically amends the current building law. Practices in the area of construction of buildings were carried out without major changes, as noted in this report. However, delays have begun to occur in the procedures for issuing building permits. The proposal also notes that today there should be no reason for radical changes in construction legislation, nor should there be any radical change linked to the cost of participants in construction. In a very simplistic manner, it is noted that the assembly system, which practically means some type of licensing as a condition for the self-employed conduct of the design profession and related technical advice, fully ensures the good professional practices of authorised engineers. The proposer also cites a number of other reasons for radical changes to the current building law, which are also, according to our assessment of such nature, that they cannot be achieved by new changes and additions to the building law. And so they order the preparation and adoption of a completely new law. The proposed law seeks to ensure that it provides safe facilities that comply with the essential technical requirements, as set out in the European Community Commission Directive and the requirements for environmental protection and space management. In view of the direct link with the new law on the regulation of space, which has already been discussed today, the proposed law will have to enter into force at the same time. The objectives of the new building law are very precise and taxive and, according to our assessment, quite difficult. For this reason, it is also the right decision to initiate such an important law with a general, first reading. From the reasoned Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we find that the proposal for a law is a suitable basis for further consideration and we will vote for it as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you for that attitude, too. Following is the position of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia. There's been an announcement. Andrej Vizjak. Will anyone else take a stand? If not, let's move on. Ivan Mamić will apologize! [[...]] Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you for your word. Good bye to all of you! The Government and the National Assembly have embarked on a law on the construction of buildings with a great deal of caution, which is understandable, as the consequences, prescribed conduct and ratings that the law will bring to users will, in fact, affect all citizens. It is necessary to give recognition to the drafter, since the text presented is much more transparent and logically structured than the previous versions and is also much more comprehensive. The fact is that the law simplifies the building process in some parts. This, on the one hand, allows a faster start of construction and, on the other hand, gives greater freedom to design and also to interpret the rules, since all except investors are excluded from the process of obtaining a building permit when regulating areas, for example with a local plan. The proposal for a law binds a number of procedures for obtaining a building permit to an implementing spatial act. The fact is that all municipalities do not have and will not accept the location plans and in some cases the procedure for obtaining the building permit will be the same as it has been before. This means that all procedures will not only be so simplified. The proposed resolution, however, indirectly leads the municipalities towards the adoption of the local plans, making it easier for them to proceed and avoid confrontation. Although some of our comments from previous hearings have been taken into account in this text, we still have certain concerns that we believe need to be further examined. In particular, the competences of the municipalities should be examined; in my view, they should be given even more powers in this area. It is not logical for municipalities to be entrusted with the preparation of spatial plans that require a lot of expertise and acceptance, which are linked to long-term ones, including multi-annual procedures and coordination of environmental interests with the basis of the co-legislators and the rules of the manufacturer, but are not entrusted with the issuance of construction and other permits. If that's what I'm trying to justify quickly. With the implementation of changes in spatial plans, by which municipalities set up development areas, they decide on the purpose of land and the appearance of the landscape, as well as on the implementation of a number of calls for the most demanding facilities, for the management of investments, for the implementation of different programmes and other challenging tasks, the municipalities are given expertise. This expertise had to ensure and employ appropriate staff. All congregations, urban and rural, large and small, established or new, must carry out these procedures themselves and bear responsibility. A key burden falls on the mayor. However, the issue of a building permit or other administrative permit only refers to a small detail in the municipal spatial act, for which it is necessary to issue a completely normal decision, which is called a construction or utility permit. I don't know what the reason is for a proposaler to have such fear and distrust of the congregations. In a specific case, however, the issue of an administrative act is to be expressed in a slightly more harsh manner, only for the approval of the mandatory components of the dossier, for the determination of an influential area, for the determination of the co-operators and for the verification of their decisions before the issue of the relevant authorisation. A professional administrative officer has almost no other authority. It is therefore strange that the applicant insists on the proposal. Administrative units have no significantly better staff than the municipality. The finding that the congregations do not have suitable professional men and that they are not capable of carrying out such procedures is not appropriate. If there is no such expert, the job can be reserved. Contracts for the performance of works may be signed. This is similar to what the congregations did in municipal inspections, or they establish a common body. These options are also permitted by the law on local self-government. I think it makes sense to use one of these envisaged options. Each is not only cheaper and more acceptable than the existing one, but will also be more effective. And it is these services that would give the congregations real weight and content. Now the confusion is perfect. It is decided by the administrative unit, and all anger is mutilated by the municipality. Location information is also given considerable weight in this law. In view of the expected consequences for the municipality, this is more than just information, since it is the basis for design or even construction and can also be the basis for compensation. It might make sense for the applicant to consider a different name. The proposer also made a more meaningful allocation of funds from the compensation for degradation and usurpation of the premises. I'm at 40%, I'm at 60%, and I'm at 60%. However, I believe that these funds should be the full revenue of the municipal budgets, as all the burdens remain for the municipalities. The provision of Article 76 relating to compensation in the event of the repeal of the implementing spatial act is still inconsistent. Space Order is the only act of the municipality to which the Minister agrees. Thus, he is given the veto right and thus has a great responsibility for the regularity, legality and coherence of the spatial act. In the event that the spatial order is repealed by the Constitutional Court, it is no longer the responsibility of the Minister. It imposes all possible burden on the person who has adopted this act. I do not think it is appropriate that the co-rapporteur, in this case the Minister and also the State representing him, suffer no consequences whatsoever. I think it is essential that the Minister, as an arbitral body and government, assumes the majority, if not all the consequences and compensation for the abolition of the spatial order and, consequently, the repeal of the location plan, which is carried out in accordance with the spatial order. In our view, the procedure for issuing a building permit in the areas covered by the site plan is too simplified as there is no envisaged impact area. The party in the process is only an investor. This means that, in the greatest possible desire for simplification, for all areas, I have already mentioned this, there will be regulation with a location plan. However, this is probably not the only objective of the applicant. If this provision remains unchanged in the law, there will be major problems as the favouring of the investor is very obvious. In particular, the limits are eliminated and other affected parties in the environment and the implementation of the works will take place to a large extent independent of the interests of the environment. It is clear that in the process of adopting the site plan it is not possible to foresee all the impacts resulting from the later construction. The proposal for a law does not specify exactly how influential areas will be identified. The provisions in this regard are too loose and should be supplemented in law. The bill also provides that foreign natural and legal persons and their branches may also participate in the design, control and construction, while the proposer does not adequately protect the use of the Slovenian language. I do not think it is the most encouraging to ignore domestic language in Slovenia and to tolerate correspondence in foreign languages. It is essential that a foreign contractor provides professional support for the execution of correspondence in our language. It would be very interesting to hear the proposaler tell us how the correspondence of Slovenian companies abroad is taking place, e.g. In Germany, however, it would be interesting to know where the official business correspondence of Slovenian companies is taking place in the countries of the former Yugoslavia. Or in Slovenian or in their home. The law is quite open, as it is followed by a long series of regulations and guidelines, which will further model and modify the content and meaning of the law and adapt it to the current needs. We will support the bill in the parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you, Jože Tanko, for the position of the delegation. Now Ivan Mamić, Nova Slovenija. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u209	Greetings to all present! Now, as we can see, we're in the third reading, but of course, it's still the first thing that's right. It is because we have taken enough time to be such a subject as the building law, which is very difficult and I also believe that when we give through the third reading, there will be some other thing left. I just hope and I'm pretty sure somewhere on my own that this law will apply for quite some time, much more than the rules of procedure. This is also proof that the work is well prepared for first reading, that we have shown here the participation of the government coalition and the opposition. Of course, the opposition is always hidden. And yet, he does something. That's proof, once again. In fact, when we first spoke about the proposal for this law, I know that I had a long time of discussion, even the president of the assembly interrupted me because I had studied for a long time, and I said I wanted to help the government. The Minister has also listened to this and has also recommended assistance. So I made about 25 amendments and they were all supported by the government, I'd almost say private. But they're all covered in the other rapporteur who was before, I think it was number 76. And of course, because the next amendments, again from Mr Tank and from others, went to the third Rapporteur, which I think was very good and smart. Not only has more time been gained on this, but this administrative part has been shortened and the material has been scrapped. A lot of this has been taken into account, so I think the law is quite prepared. For the second reading, we will also make another amendment. Basically, our client supports him. As a builder and a long-standing designer, I was most interested in things of a technical nature, and that is why I have worked so hard to contribute my share. If he's adopted, and I think this law will be passed, I'll be very proud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs for the position of the LDS Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, Members and Members of Parliament! At the end of 2001, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted the first text of the proposal for a building law for the first reading of the National Assembly. The reasons for the adoption of the law, the objectives and fundamental principles of the law were clear. In the vast majority, we agreed with the proposaler, and in this part we also agreed Members. An extremely broad debate on fundamental issues and possible solutions and a large number of entities touched by the content of marriage are all the reasons that have led us to reopen the general debate in the new text of the Law on the Construction of Buildings, which is ahead of us. In particular, the question of whether the main solutions to the proposal of the law are to all of us to the best extent possible are common objectives, which are: firstly, deregulation of administrative procedures in the area of construction, secondly, greater efficiency of the administrative procedure for the issuance of the building permit and inspection supervision, thirdly, ensuring the security of the building, compliance with spatial acts, ensuring the reliability of the facilities and their registration, and ensuring the smooth movement of functionally disabled persons, and fourthly, precise definition of the conditions for the performance of the construction activities and the responsibility of all participants in the construction process and how to ensure their professionalism. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that the solutions in the draft law before us are good and more balanced than in the previous draft laws, and we therefore consider that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration. Let me support our assessment with some examples of good, suitable solutions. The first important objective, deregulation of administrative procedures, was achieved by the applicant with an important decision when he correctly assessed that it was not in the public interest to regulate simple interventions into space. We fully support the proposed solution that regular and investment maintenance works no longer require a decision to authorise notified works. So far, the required administrative decision did not in its essence protect public benefits, but it did well to cause unnecessary costs and a paper war. The construction of simple buildings, which was previously accurately numbered by the Minister, is also more suitable. For example, the investor will obtain only local information before the start of the construction of a simple building in front of the competent authority in the municipality, from which he will determine whether the intended construction is possible. In accordance with the provisions of the Space Regulation Act, such information shall have the nature of the certificate in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act and shall be given immediately. Equalisation will also apply if we want to change the use of space in certain cases. With such arrangements, we also give the competent local communities and municipalities a position that they should have long ago as agents of the regulation of the premises in the municipalities. However, we inform investors, citizens and holders of works for the public benefit of such arrangements that the state trusts them and that they can be responsible co-formers of the use of space. Finally, the deregulation of such simple interventions into space also led the policies of the Member States of the European Union. The second objective is to achieve greater efficiency in the administrative process of issuing a building permit, as we better regulate the rights and responsibilities of investors, designers, co-conspirators, parties in the process and administrative bodies. The proposal was based on a thorough assessment of the current situation in the solutions offered to us for reception, so we are confident that we will be able to achieve this objective. In particular, as positive solutions, we assess: for the first time - a clearly processed procedure by the competent co-legislators. In the process of developing a project to obtain a building permit, the designer will produce it in accordance with the conditions to be provided by the co-legislators in accordance with the material rules whose provisions protect them. Once the project has been developed by the project designer, the agreement will also confirm compliance with the conditions. With such regulation, we will make it impossible to practice so far, when investors have often had to change projects and travel from designer to administrative authority and back. The high prices that some co-operators charged for their services were without the right legal basis. The applicant shall duly address this issue and the price of the consent issued shall be bound to an administrative fee. Secondly, the rights and duties of party participants in the procedure for issuing a building permit shall also be specified. According to our assessment, the investor has so far been uninsured in cases where opponents of construction have made construction impossible only out of sophistication in the appeals proceedings. Greater responsibility and seriousness of the complainants is required, including by the imposition of financial burdens on them. The duties of the administrative authority are also clearly defined and the authority to issue the building permit remains with the administrative units. This is appropriate since the simultaneous modification of material rules and the transfer of powers to other authorities does not hold up a serious professional judgement and would, as in the case of such conduct, certainly lead to a major delay in the issue of such licences. In particular, as a positive assessment of the applicant's decision to significantly simplify the procedures for obtaining building permits in the areas to be regulated by the municipalities with a location plan. The rational use of space in narrow and communally managed settlements will also be motivated by the envisaged reduced administrative procedure and the non-participation of other parties in the process, other than the investor. I have outlined some solutions that we can assess as being more balanced with the interests of our citizens of investors. However, after a one-year coordination of the proposal with all the representatives of the professional institutions, we have no hope of having a balanced solution with the other entities involved in the construction process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you for that position. Ivan Bozič, position of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Secretary, Undersecretary! Colleagues and colleagues! About 20% of us, who are interested, seem to be building buildings. Those who listen to us, I hope that they too will agree that something in this area will improve. Therefore, the Slovenian People's Party's Group supports the proposed law. Experience in the past has shown that the current backlog in the issuance of site and building permits, as well as the uniform building permits, is largely due to the fact that administrative units for smaller works and for simple facilities are also required to conduct administrative procedures, to include party participants in these procedures and to issue decisions on the authorisation of notified works. However, since these decisions did not become legal in view of the numerous complaints and year-on-year complaints, there were therefore only two possibilities for investors: either to stop the investment or to stop such an object without permission. This also applies to such facilities for which the municipality itself has adopted decisions establishing ancillary and other facilities for which no location permit is required. We therefore support those solutions of the proposed law that first define demanding, less demanding and simple objects, and leave the definition of these species to a sub-legislative act, which will, in a uniform manner, also determine their maximum size, construction and use and the conditions for their departure from the borders of neighbouring lands. Later, when preparing and adopting implementing spatial acts, this is a spatial order and a location plan, the municipality itself will be able to deal with such conditions in more detail. For such simple facilities and works, the implementing spatial act will lay down the formal conditions and allow the construction of buildings to be adapted to local characteristics or specificities. We can also commend the seventh part of the Law, chapter 7, which is the chapter on transitional and final provisions. For this purpose, there are as many as 50 articles on 11 pages. Those of us who have met with the Construction Permits Act in our current services know that any change in the law has brought some transitional provisions, which have not been precise and often we have done some of the work in the old, something new and some in the middle. And so there was quite a bit of confusion in this area. Indeed, this law can be commendable because it regulates, in the transitional and final provisions, an immediate transition to a new regime. We also support the proposed law because it follows from its transitional provisions that simple facilities will be able to be built without building permits after the date of its entry into force, provided that the local information to be issued by the municipality shows that they meet the conditions laid down in the current municipal decisions on ancillary facilities [[Article 209(1)]] , as the current municipal decisions on ancillary facilities continue to apply until they are progressively replaced by new implementing and spatial acts [[Article 238, first paragraph, point]] , which will also make it possible to improve the quality of life of our citizens and remove the current backlogs in the area of administrative permits. In order to ensure that restoration works on categorised municipal roads and those forest roads that can be used by other users in accordance with forest regulations are also equivalent to reconstructions of public roads and, therefore, such works will no longer need to be regarded as maintenance works for public benefit. [[in the second paragraph of Article 198]] , which will also enable accelerated economic development, in particular of smaller municipalities. For all types of residential and non-residential buildings that were built before 1967 and will be considered to have a valid permit as from the date of implementation of the proposed law in force, if registered in a terrestrial cadastral [[Article 200(1), first paragraph]] , which will also enable the municipality to register all types of building land and thus allow for a more effective loan of compensation for the use of building land before the new real estate tax rules are implemented. At this point, we cannot go beyond Article 242 which speaks of the cessation of the compensation for the change in the destination of land and forest. They do not know this kind of payment by the European Union. Such compensation, yes or no, is only our political decision. It is also true that such compensations are not prohibited by the European Union. But it's good to know what it's like where we want it. All this, however, creates an uneasy feeling. For example, at the construction of Slovenian motorways there are rich local communities, where motorways have already been built, they have already received compensation paid. For the same construction on the outskirts of the Republic of Slovenia, we abolish this obligation. A lot of people would say that the same highway facility should apply to all the same criteria. Where is constitutional equality before the law? The Law on Agricultural Lands itself, in which we today, by law on the regulation of the premises and now by law on the construction of the buildings, are making a strong effort, we will talk when it comes to the parliamentary debate. We expect this to happen in early 2003. And, as I said in the introduction, we will support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you for the position of the Group of Members. And also the Slovenian National Party, but I don't see the victory of Jelinčič. Will someone else present their position? [[No, no, ……]] These were then the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. I give up the debate myself, so I give the floor to Janko Webra, who is not present, so I will give the floor to Dr. Michael Brejc. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u215	Thank you very much. First of all, I regret that our rules of procedure are so rigid, or that those who decide on the planning of the meeting do not allow the Minister to say at least those essential things in such a complex law, which has such important implications for the development of Slovenia. I agree it's five minutes, I'd say, intolerable. With regard to the law itself, I think it opens up some new options and offers better solutions, but some things seem questionable to me and I would like to say something about it. However, I would also ask, if possible, for some explanation and clarification, because I think that the law in some parts is not clear enough to avoid misunderstandings. First of all, I would like to say that, as I said in the introductions, this law has important implications for the economic development of Slovenia, including for citizens and citizens, and that we must look at it more closely through this prism than has been said in the current presentations. This places a great deal of emphasis on investor freedom. I am afraid that this freedom is too much, too liberal, because by now the great investors have had a lot of power, and they actually did, karssa hotels, no matter what the law was, no matter what the administration did. Small investors, too, have hoped for a lot of things, and that's why so many black buildings. It is true that in this law you foresee a stronger line of sanctioning inspection and sanctioning, but I fear that the Slovenian State Administration is not able to implement this law. Indeed, we have also had provisions in our existing laws on how control is taking place. But please, we all know that black constructions have also come out of pure despair. People waited years and years for a building permit, and then they had to solve their housing problem anyway. But there are other things. The administrative authority issued a building permit and, of course, the citizen began to build a house that was completely contrary to what he had built a tower, a castle or whatever you wanted. See in Slovenia what amazing buildings are growing. I doubt that everything is in line with the documentation approved at the administrative unit. This is said, in my opinion, the law is somewhat unclear in this part. On the one hand, too liberal, but on the other hand, this, the sanctioning part is extensive, I agree, even hard, okay, but either, I wonder what the enforceability of this law is. I'm afraid the enforceability of this law is low. We remember a law on environmental protection that was very good when a person reads it. Of course, there were a number of sub-laws mentioned there, which I fear are not there today. What will help us to have a good marriage if there are no underlaws to ensure that this law can be implemented in the first place? I would therefore also ask that this be said very specifically, because clearly, it says in there, there are deadlines when the Minister there is, say, in Article 8, or I don't know which one already, to define a series of objects and criteria and I don't know what regulations and so on. Another such matter seems to me entirely justified, as to how to say, a fully justified solution to neighbors, relations with neighbors. In my office, I often hear people complaining in these directions. When a person reads these documents, he sees that it is a lot of times a matter of pure commotion, disdainfulness, and indeed inappropriate conduct of individuals, perhaps I can say. However, I wonder if it is really appropriate to expel our neighbors because of exceptional individuals, if I may use this term. It would not be better, however, to ensure to the neighbours that the party is in the process if they so wish. But then, with their objections, their comments, in short, what happens is that we do it very quickly if we see that it's a restriction, a set-up and things like that. By the way, there's been a lot of government here so far. The man complained and knew that this would slow down the building of the neighbor for a year. We will not save anything by this provision. However, we will harm people who could otherwise legitimately exercise their neighborly interest. Now, if, of course, I understand the wording in the law, somehow they won't be able to. Mrs Krebs also spoke today about the ZUP and, if I understand correctly, that procedures will be easier for the citizen. I agree that, as far as I can judge this law, so, but Article 58, which speaks of evidence, of the right to build, speaks of an extract from the land book and so on. For example, if we are talking about an extract from the land book, I have the impression that, if I have read this article correctly, it is now necessary for citizens to submit these copies. If I am mistaken, I apologize, but it is certainly necessary to take into account the ZUP, which says that all those collections which are of such a nature, which the state has in hand, must clearly be regulated by this country. In this sense, in order to make the law more enforceable and more pleasant for citizens, there is also a need for a substantially different organisational structure of the state administration. Here I fear that the ministry is also weak and administrative unit But here we should, on this principle, which we have long said "we", I mean this professional, professoral part of the public administration, on this "one stop shop", on this principle when a citizen gets information in one place and can also communicate with a specific person in the handling of these matters. [[...]] I think there's a possibility in this law that this possibility has been abandoned. However, it would be an ideal opportunity for us to put this principle of organisation of state administration through this law. Because the operational capacity of this government and this state administration is not good enough in this area. But this is a great opportunity to do so. When I said earlier that this marriage could have significant consequences. I see, say, agriculture and tourism as an example, as I would say, of the quality of the application of this law and the great benefits it can bring. Because of ambiguity, at least I didn't find the right formulations myself, for example, I'm wondering what's going to happen to golf courses. Now you will say that I favor or ask a question that concerns only a few thousand people in Slovenia. It won't hold, it's not about the players of this game, but it's about, say, this. If I have correctly remembered or written down, the Government has adopted a Regulation on the types of environmental interventions for which an environmental impact assessment is mandatory under Articles 55 and 56 of the Environmental Protection Act. And this regulation in Article 3 then provides that it is necessary to obtain an impact assessment and so on, and of course also for the production of a golf course, to build a golf course requires the same documentation as for everything else. Now, look, I've been trying to get some information about these things, and I've seen that in Slovenia it's in this official work, so in the government, it's a marked aversion to this area; it's like it's a "hohstaplaria" about an elite and that sort of thing. But I do want to say that in neighbouring Austria there are about 110 playgrounds and 15 new ones are now building. To get farmers who stop farming because of the difficult conditions they live in, they get a special subsidy to make golf courses - because it is very important for the tourist offer. Slovenia, for example, causes great problems for those who would like to do so. I, for example, also ask for clarification because I did not understand where this thing belongs: whether it is an object referred to in Article 8, which would be called a simple object, or whether it is by definition an object under point 1.4, an object for which an environmental impact assessment is required, or 1.9.3, where it is an exercise facility and so on. It wasn't clear to me where these things could be classified. However, I think that this law could open the door a little bit more to all those who would like to live more than that, and Slovenia has the opportunity to do so. By the way, let me say that in Slovenia, I don't know, so, a few thousand players, and that now that the season is over, in neighbouring Italy, you want as many playing cards as you want for the winter season and at least a thousand players will buy these cards there. It is said, right across the border, at Trieste, you can play for, say, a thousand euros. Now think about it: a million euros will go without going to other places where people go. We're giving up big money here, but on the other hand, we have areas that could serve it, in Primorskie, to say where there's no snow and the whole year's work is active. For example, look at Lipica, who could have been a pearl inbi of this too - unfortunately she's failing, because of her stiffness, because of her possible conjecture or misunderstanding of this area. So I would like to ask, Mr Minister, if it is possible to give some explanation in this direction, because the people I spoke to are telling me about these things and they have asked me to say something about it. Well, one more thing, if this whole thing belongs to point 1.4 - an environmental-effect object for which an environmental impact assessment is mandatory. I'd just like to say the following. In fact, it makes no sense because golf courses are being built today in a way that is consistent with the landscape. Chemical agents that are harmful to humans are not used because this harms players and gamekeepers. The funds under strict control shall be used on a biobased basis, as they say. People are specially trained for it and so on. Thus I do not understand why such an object should have been, for so far it has been subject to such a difficult criterion that, on the other hand, you know, farmers are throwing many more pesticides into the field and so on, which we then eat. In farmers, though, these influences do not have to be controlled or controlled, but no one does. As it is said: I think that marriage is extremely important. I also welcome all those good solutions. Please, however, if there is any other explanation in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you. The word is Irma Pavlinič Krebs, LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you so much for saying that. In these few minutes, even though my colleague Brejc has appointed me, I will try to explain some of his dilemmas and discuss these issues on my own, what the party is obliged to submit to the administrative authority. Article 56 as a bond says “two copies of the project documentation”. It is clear from paragraph 4 that it is necessary to provide proof of the right to build only if it is not already entered in the Land Book. Since, by simplifying administrative procedures, where it is an obligation for administrative authorities to obtain such evidence from the competent authorities in charge of the records, we consider that the land register is a public document and that the State authority itself will look into such records. This means two copies of the project documentation and, of course, in the application and the project documentation itself, the project number, the application number and the administrative authority will look into the land book. The proof of the right to build - it is not necessarily a written case in the land book, it may also be a certified document in the notary which contains this right and, if it has not yet been entered, it is recommended that the party, in the case of the notary, also submit a certified document. This is the customer's duty. Everything else shall be carried out by the competent authority for the issue of the building permit. The co-operators no longer perform at this stage. The co-rapporteurs, who, on the basis of the substantive rules, give their consent, are now being moved to a stage before, which is logical and more reasonable, even by my own personal assessment. In particular, at the stage of the production of the project documentation, they give conditions and then also give consent to the project documentation produced. This means that the investor is also significantly more protected and that responsibility is properly shared between these authorities, that is to say between the designer and the co-operator. The question of the parties to the proceedings is an extremely sensitive issue. When a person encounters, also an official, an administrative body that decides, it is said, on the one hand, the investor's wish to make the most rational procedure and, of course, the desire of the borders, the neighbours, all those who estimate that the construction will interfere with their living environment in an inappropriate way - how to protect these interests. However, the fact that the site plan is an act adopted by the local community, which is so precise and requires the local community itself, that when the site plan is drawn up, the competent co-operators participate in the production phase; that is, for both the municipal arrangements and the environmental impacts, and all the competent co-operators will be the conditions for the design of the infrastructure to be offered here to investors in such a regulated area, is considered to be that the co-operators have already given their terms here. And the point of this short-term procedure is that they don't double up. If the municipality arranges a residential settlement with a location plan, where exactly the utility company, the electricity and everyone else will tell you how the electricity will be, where the road will be, and the municipality will be able to invest in it itself, where the road will take place, where the telecommunications and other water will take place, where the investor will then ask the same co-operators again. The point is not meaningful and, of course, my personal assessment is also that we will motivate so many local communities to regulate the use of space rationally and as closely as possible and thus deprive investors of unnecessary, overinvestment in this documentation to obtain a building permit. Of course, the situation is different where the spatial order is arranged. There are no precise provisions and in this case the protection of the parties in the procedure is significantly greater. The designer has to define an influential area if, in this influential area - it is said, people who could be damaged and their habitat or any other environment would be significantly worsened - will be here with environmental impact assessments and will continue to try to identify real environmental impacts. Of course, the third problem is the parties to the appeal procedure. How, in the appeal procedure, to make sure that procedures are really not stalled out of fragility. There is now a burden of proof on the complainant himself to provide evidence that the construction will affect his living environment or in any way violate the rights of his living environment. And of course, the complaint will also have a price, because such evidence will have to be submitted. In the event of the seriousness of the complaint, the guardian of these people is liable, and in the event that the complainant succeeds, to the investor who has lost the costs of all these investments in this evidence, also to repay him. But the initial investment is on the complainant's side. I myself have wondered a lot - even in the light of the many experiences I have - how, however, to settle such questions fairly. The attempt is - I think that if we think about something even more fair and balanced in the following discussions, it is welcome. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you. I would have received the word of Franci Rokavec, and I do not see him in the hall, and then Joseph Jerovšek, whom I also do not see in the hall, I give the word to Joseph Ašić, who is here. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u219	Thank you. Good-bye. So in a way, I am very pleased with today's debate on the construction of buildings law, because I have the feeling that this time there will not be a lot of amendments on either side, at least according to how the representatives of the parliamentary groups assessed the law. I, too, believe that substantial progress has been made and that it is worth commending the law-makers, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Over? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u220	You're wasting your time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u221	Thank you all for taking my time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u222	Thank you, Joze Auschwitz. Mag. Andrej Vizjak would still have a word and he's not here. Now the rules of procedure, Comrade Brejc, are just such that the government is also its own five minutes Sorry is so, little is true, but then we will have to talk somewhere else, so that the debate is over, the one that you used the time. [[...]] [[...]] Ivan Kebrich still has time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you for your word, Your Honor and Your Honor. Mr. Secretary, I have a question for you. The chapter on black construction is very, I would say, largely properly arranged. But I am asking you and I am giving you the opportunity to take advantage of the answer to explain to me how you will deal with the black constructions that have been made until this law is in force and how you will identify and sanction, which gives you the possibility, the black constructions that will take place after this law has been implemented. I'll be even more precise: there are aerial footage and every black building in the country is known. Why hasn't the inspection services been doing this? The answers were as follows: we don't have enough capacity, we can't do everything, but we just go where the application is. We do know, however, that good neighbourly relations were simply not allowed or were not the reason for some black construction to the inspectorate. On the other hand, we know and ask you how you will take action for those cases of black construction already in force in those investors who were state institutions - because the state itself has not built anything black, but it has always been an institution - and tell me how you will solve these two problems by the time the law comes into force, and in what timely time is the perspective that you will solve them, force those black builders who have avoided every payment and laugh at all those who have legalized their black constructions, as has been the case today, very often that a citizen has failed to obtain a building permit and simply built it and because there was no prosecutor, there was no judge. Please, if you can tell me, or if you'd like to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you. Now we have 61 minutes left. Which is why I'm asking first, who else wants to discuss it? The list of applicants is exhausted. Who else wants it? Please, let me write this down first and we can arrange this time. Joža Ašić, Dr. Brace, the government - no one else. Thank you very much. I'll put the word in the order you signed up after five minutes. Joze Auschwitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u225	Thank you very much. I hope I don't need that much. In the preliminary debate on the draft law, which was then withdrawn, there were two main issues. One of them was procedural, and we talked about it a lot today. The second part also referred to the organisation and work of professional chambers. Since there was no talk about this today, I would like to say that I was trying to ask a little bit about how they view the law in the Engineering Chamber, as it is before us today. I can say that they are largely very pleased that the Ministry has listened to some comments that have been coordinated for a long time and have coordinated them by having two chambers - both engineering and a chamber of architects - but better than something that would have been constantly torn and on different shores. Of course, the only question left open is the question of powers.In fact, the chamber in the current legislation has or has had two types of public powers. One for keeping a directory of authorized engineers and responsible designers, which is also what the current law brings - both for architects and engineers. And, of course, also the power to maintain the directory of projective companies. They express one fear: that because this law does not define both in the engineering and in the chamber of architects this authority is not necessary. On the other hand, fear exists to be gained by some third congregational organisation, which has also been advertised many times in previous discussions. For then, of course, the thing would be so strange and the solution would be to have a third profit where the two are fighting. I do not think that this will be the case and that these two powers, or any authority, will be sufficient for their own chamber. For example, I would like to warn you about another problem. Otherwise, it is already on behalf of the SLS Group, Mr Bozič. Article 242 of the Act repealing Articles 11 to 16 of the Agricultural Lands Act. I personally believe that the category of change in the destination of agricultural land has been very much a survivor. This article, which was once thought of as a safeguard against excessive interference in the agricultural area, proved to be completely useless and did not tolerate any benefits. It did not prevent construction, it did not prevent black constructions, it did not prevent the cultivation of agricultural land and so on. Indeed, what Mr Bozič has pointed out is that, especially because of the construction of the highway cross in Slovenia, after the implementation of this law, you will be affected by those municipalities where the highway is just coming. From my own experience, I know that for a number of congregations there was a fact that some 100 million will prevail in terms of changes in the destination of agricultural land, and that only from that part 30% will prevail in issuing an agreement on the site plan. There's a serious fear, and don't think I'm speaking on local behalf, because we're lucky, but we've already done about 80% of this already. This is the whole area of Dolenjska, the entire Prekmurje area, where major problems will arise in the installation of routes and in the requirements of this contribution. It may appear that we may consider how to find a transitional period for certain interventions, although I personally believe that this is the right thing to do, that we do not need this contribution to mean the appreciation of housing, the appreciation of investment in general. However, this question, which I am a principle, needs to be seriously considered how to deal with it, perhaps during a transitional period. So much for these two subjects. I hope that I will also get the right answer or that this will also be clarified during further consideration of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you. Dr. Brace, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u227	Mr. Vice President! Don't mind my intervention, but I don't care if I defend the government far from it. But it's impossible for the minister and his associates to answer the questions we've asked here in five minutes. Perhaps we have asked these questions in order to clarify whether we need to make an amendment to an article or not. The Minister's public statement in this room is important so that we can refer to it if, for example, later it is different. So please don't stick to that kind of arrangement or anything. Because if we were to follow the rules of procedure strictly, we'd be out of here by now. This would be a great madness, which is implied in this Rules of Procedure. So please let the Minister answer the questions. Anyway, we have until 8:15. That's it. You don't think people who aren't here don't listen. A lot of people are interested, but they're in their offices and they're listening. So these interventions, which we now hear in this national assembly these days, seem somewhat unnecessary to me. Thank you, for understanding in particular.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you for your good opinion. I give my word to the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you very much. If I first look at what Dr. Brac just said, then I know that even if I had more time available, I probably couldn't answer all the questions raised in the details. So I promise you right now that in the coming days, not tomorrow, we will summarize the questions that you have asked here, not just you, and the others, and we will give you a written answer - in good time, so that you may think about any amendments. But if I try to be very brief on a few questions right now. Then I'll go from the back. Mr. Ašić asks why the Engineering Chamber does not keep a directory [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u230	Minister, I will not limit you within this time we have at our disposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u231	Okay, thanks. Why doesn't he run a directory of authorized or designer companies? I must say that we had a lot of controversy about this directory management, and finally we decided that it - or our position was all the time that we were not going to let it go anywhere, because we already have a directory, and this is a court register, and we do not need a parallel directory yet, and the Ghanas will be run by no one, not an engineering chamber, not an economic chamber, not a third chamber. As regards the contribution or compensation for the change of destination, this was, after all, at the first reading of the previous text, also the position of the National Assembly that it was good to support this. And several times it has been particularly explained why it is an instrument that is actually even counterproductive and sometimes - indeed sometimes, not generally, but sometimes - of a variety of municipalities point to designing or planning construction in areas that are the most high-quality agricultural land. But we've had quite a few discussions in the National Assembly, so I don't think I have to repeat it. Mr. Kebrič asks about the difference between old and new black constructions. There's no difference. That is to say, if the inspector discovers a black construction that was made, for example, in 1985, or 1993, or 1997, or yesterday, the procedure will be exactly the same as that which may occur on 16 January next year. However, it should be pointed out that there is a special regime for those black builders who have made themselves known under a special law called the so-called "black builder's law" of 1993. And they still have some time off to legalize the situation. An important novelty is that the current law, in 1993, does not actually have a time dimension, until they have to fix the situation, it can be irregular for all time - it was a mistake in that law. We are now eliminating this or limiting it to five years - from now. Mr. Brace was asking about golf courses. In fact, the law has no exact answer here, and I'll tell you why. It does not say whether the golf course is a simple object or a demanding object. Article 2 on the definitions that you have asked questions does not answer that question. And the object for which environmental impact assessment is needed is only defined here as an object with the need to assess environmental impacts. What are these objects, but they are laid down in a sub-legislative act based on the law on environmental protection, not on the basis of this law. The environmental impact assessment procedure is the environmental protection law procedure and has no direct link with the building permit, except that the procedure must be completed before the building permit can be obtained. I'll give you one, at first glance, a ridiculous case. The Wildlife Chamber in the forest is, according to the dictates of this law, a bill, a simple object for which no building permit is required. However, a sub-legislative act under the environmental protection law requires an environmental impact assessment for such an object. And this is because of the potential impact on the environment of a common wooden slope in the middle of the forest. Even in golf courses, you have to do it. I think that in golf courses with more than nine holes - I think that's what this sublegal act says, this regulation - but it doesn't say, you won't find an answer here, whether it's a simple object - a golf course, even with eighteen holes - or not an easy object. This will be written in a submarital act. I can't give you an exact answer right now, but I'm probably going to assume that golf courses with a certain number of holes - I don't hope to say that it's one, three, six, nine, I don't know - don't belong among simple objects, like. However, it is necessary to have an environmental impact assessment of the nine holes, some golf course with e.g. But the eighteen holes will not be between - probably, this moment of course I can't tell you precisely, because we don't have this sub-legislative act yet to the end. Well, even more important is the second question; the question of what will be drawn in the spatial act. If a golf course is to be drawn for an area in a spatial act adopted by the municipality, whether or not that golf course requires a building permit or sufficient location information, the procedure will be relatively simple because, for example, a golf course is to be envisaged. Then it's not even a question at all. As far as Article 58 is concerned, Mrs Irma Pavlinič Krebs has already replied to you, concerning the exclusion of neighbours - in fact, I must say that in a spatial order that is less precise a spatial act, roughly as today a spatial regulatory condition, the borders or neighbours and all those in an influential area - that is, those who own land over which or under which some water flows, e.g. The pipeline for this new construction or power supply - will be the customers in the process where the site plan is concerned, but not. Of course, that makes a lot of sense. For the location plan, all the location conditions have already been given in advance, they are already precisely defined because the location plan is of course a precise spatial act, about like today's wall plan. There's a public hearing, everything's already done. And, of course, it doesn't make any sense to repeat this in a specific intervention into space. However, if a concrete intervention into space may have been done slightly differently than the envisaged location plan, then, of course, it is a black construction case and, of course, every neighbour has the option through this procedure, to intervene. Well, you said the state administration wasn't capable of implementing this law. I think she's capable. In particular, we had this before our eyes when we wrote the provisions of this law. And I have to say, well, probably most of these observations were about inspection services. I must stress in particular that inspection services are functioning significantly better today than they were a year ago and are significantly better than they were two years ago. Let me tell you about the comparison. I am talking about the inspection of the Republic of Slovenia for the environment and space. Let me tell you about the comparison. We're in last year's year -- so last year's, say, not a single black construction was removed. And pre-law, I don't think any of them are. And so on. Even more backwards - neither. Last year, 70 of them were removed since I was Minister, and they were removed over 50 this year, and we are not yet at the end of the year. By significantly improving efficiency. The fact is, however, that the penal provisions in this law are based on a different logic. And it is that in fact the punishment is increasing all the time if the black builder himself does not comply with the spatial act: Whether it removes or legalizes. If, of course, he can legitimize. In this way, we will actually cause people to work harder on their own to do so. For they will have a very predictable course of events ahead of them. Today, when it is known that thousands of uninitiated inspection decisions are indeed thousands - I am talking about an inspection for the environment and space - then of course everyone knows that, in fact, the country is swamped with all kinds of things, but cannot react quickly and try happiness. However, I must say that since the inspection is more effective and is also read in the media and watched on television, there is also a significant decrease in reported black buildings. In short, we're in a downward trend. We are monitoring this because, of course, we want to plan as effectively as possible the work of the inspection. You said - or you were talking - about the power of investors. I believe that, of course, there is no point in talking about the overpower of investors or the underpower of investors. It's a different subject. We need to talk about legal certainty, about the legal security of those who are in one, in the so-called "influent area" of this facility, and about the legal security of those who are investors. This legal certainty was now very weak. It may have occurred that the investor had a very high cost before or even before the investment started; it had abnormal costs due to unreasonable procedures and because the procedure allowed the chicaneous abuse of the administrative procedure in order to delay an investment. Cases are very well known, or no one wants to testify before a court or in public, but many times I can hear voices about individual investors, how they had to pay, I don't know, to a neighbor as many as tens of thousands of units of a particular currency, so they didn't complain. That's what's been going on. We now have in the law the liability of the one who squeamishly causes an administrative dispute, and therefore, I am sure, this will be significantly less. On the other hand, this impossibility, or the excessiveness of an empty, unnecessary administrative procedure, or parts of this procedure, has caused the municipalities to try in despair to settle their territory as much as possible with spatial urban conditions, which is significantly less accurate than with the wall plan. Even today, or even today, it has happened that individual municipalities of areas already regulated by wall plans, such as Ljubljana, are reclassified into spatial regulatory conditions - just because procedures are too rigid. And this is of course - in space urbanism works qualitatively with wall plans, not with spatial regulatory conditions - and this crazy procedure has driven into inquality space management. The municipalities considered that they had some kind of correctional exam, some way out in that they were then given an overview of the project documentation for each particular investment and that they agreed or disagreed with the project documentation. This was not binding on the administrative unit. In individual cases, although the municipality was negative in its assessment of the project documentation, the administrative unit issued a building permit and in individual cases it was the other way around. This, of course, this procedure or the opinion that the municipality has some kind of possibility of having an impact on specific interventions in space through a review of project documentation for individual investment is, in fact, if I may use such a term,'mild thirsty'. They thought, or there was a belief, that there is still something to regulate in this way today; nothing can really be regulated. Our problem, the problem with the degraded space in Slovenia, is that municipalities have bad spatial acts, and this has been encouraged by the baroquely overloaded procedure with very unnecessary things in this administrative process, which is now being cleaned or rationalised by this bill. Well, Mr Tanko mentioned that, among other things, there should be - in his opinion, a transfer of building permits to the municipalities. We believe that the issue of building permits is actually a technical business that does not affect the content of decisions should not affect the content of decisions. The content of the decisions must be influenced by a spatial act, which, of course, is determined by the local community. In view of some way of equality, the equality of all citizens who actually have to face some very neutral administration, we believe that this is much better provided that we remain within existing administrative units as regards the issuance of building permits than if we were to transfer it to municipalities where we know that individual municipalities, especially those that remain slightly larger and are in those places where former municipalities were once established, would probably not be able to follow this task properly. As far as the Slovenian language is concerned, I must say that the use of the Slovenian language requires - or that this is exactly the same dilemma as you had in the medical service law, if I am not mistaken. Here we are tied to a dictatorship that we have in some way aligned with the European acquis. Otherwise, this is also the subject of the use of Slovenian in public use, which I think you have either at this meeting of the National Assembly or at the following, and the law on consumer protection, which is also at this same meeting of the National Assembly. As far as the submarital acts are concerned, I must say, at this moment, they are indeed in intensive preparation. In a way, I guarantee - as far as I hope - that we can - within the time limit envisaged - it will take three, six and twelve months - to prepare all the under-laws, because we have actually started preparing long ago. We were confident that this law would already be adopted and that we have therefore already made this situation substantial or very early - but perhaps it is already a little late for that situation, and for those expectations, these projects have already been initiated - and these sub-laws are in the middle of work, assuming that the text as proposed will be adopted here. I am so sure that we will be able to do this within the expected time frame. As far as other comments are concerned, I did not specifically notice them, as I said, we will answer them in writing, depending on the text or what we will learn from the magnetogram. I'd like to thank you for the commendations of the law. And I must say again, as he mentioned earlier, for example, Mr Mamić, in several steps, when this law came into being, we have taken the comments or amendments of individual Members to mention here Mr Mamić with a very large number of good amendments, Mr Tank, who has contributed significantly to the chapter on renewal or expansion or direction of construction into degraded areas, and Mr Weber has had a number of good amendments to speed up procedures, and Irma Pavlinič Krebs, and Dušan Vučko, and Mr Bozič, Mr Trofenik and a number of others - that I will not forget anyone and that he will not be offended. But really, as I said in the introduction, the law was formed in co-production, although it may seem to someone that we did not have an excessively serious performance because we changed or replaced the text, but it is also possible to understand this in its own way because it is extremely complicated matter; the law was made for almost ten years, here is a huge number of actors who wanted to influence the content of the law. All these coordinations have required so many interventions, but I think we are now close to the end of this, so far I think it's quite a time of work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you, Minister. This would conclude the debate. Thin - let me ask you another question, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u233	Perhaps just to clarify that it will not then be repeated again - I would like to ask the Minister to comment on Article 76. The question - the possibility of damages in repealing acts and the problem of co-approval in a particular type of acts - are consequently the location plans; in short, the whole package is with the agreement of the Minister. However, compensation shall then fall in the case of accepted or to the State if it is a State, or to the municipality and in its entirety, even though it is the consent of the Ministry and the Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u234	- and perhaps Mr Joža Ašič, and then to be a common answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you. Although I have already told the Minister, and I really think that the compensation for changing the destination of agricultural land is so outdated that it is hardly worth talking about. In fact, I was against it because I was in some way in the administration when I was introduced, because it was pointless at the time. For the agricultural land of the communities was financed by allowing for intervention in the first zone. That was bullshit. And this stupidity has remained so long that today it has become a problem and I have only warned myself that it will have to be examined, because it will continue to be - especially in highways, and perhaps in some other major infrastructure facilities when placing a problem in the area in local communities because some of them are very good to come through during the implementation of the highway programme, while others will be cut off by 31.12. And there is no need to answer this problem, to study it, and to see what can be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you. I'm asking for those answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u237	Thank you very much. Regardless of what Mr Ašić said, that there is no need to answer, I would like to stress - but once it is such madness, he used that word, it is right that it is over. And now those who are not gifted, we simply cannot comfort, except by prolonging it, but I don't think that makes any sense. On the other hand, it is true that - as Mr Bozič has already said - the congregations will find themselves in a somewhat unequal position. I must say that they are in an unequal position already; if they were all in an equal position, then the highway would only go to every Slovenian congregation, but that is not the case. However, as regards Mr Tank's question, it should be said that Article 76 - since we have already debated it on the Infrastructure Committee, I have specifically stressed that the Minister is even personally punished in criminal provisions in the event that the spatial act to which he gave his consent has been repealed. This is how it might happen to me that I'm going to spend something on paying for my misdemeanours in the coming period, as long as I'm a minister. However, I must say, Article 76 is a more obsessive norm. See, it says, "If a legal building permit is removed for the purpose of abolishing an implementing spatial act in a constitutionality and legality review procedure before a constitutional court and is, therefore, in such a case, "and this is due to the unlawful conduct of a municipality or state, if a spatial act has been adopted by its body, the investor has the right to recover normal damage and loss of profits for damage caused" and so on. In short, it is necessary to establish this first in a court of law. The same procedure would theoretically determine how guilty a person is and determine the relationship. Such a thing is impossible to determine in advance. We can't write in the law that everyone is guilty of 50% or anything like that. I therefore think that more specific provisions such as this could hardly be written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you. Can I make a debate? And Mr. Mamić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u239	Thank you very much. I have a question for you to clarify. In fact, on the 29th page under point 12.2, it reads: "Dangerous construction means that the construction that is being carried out, whether an existing building endangers property" and so on. What does "existing facility" mean if we're talking about construction? I thought the answer would be in Article 57, but - otherwise the article is clear on its own, but this "existing object" is not clear to me what it means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you for asking. And an answer if it can be short.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u241	Thank you very much. It may be a bit unusually written, but still. A dangerous construction means that the construction that is being done - that is something that is just being built - or an existing building - is in case something falls away from it, in short, if it collapses. And if it endangers property and so on, it's considered dangerous construction. Maybe that would make it really clearer to write it down. But the thought is exactly what I've been trying to present here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you. This was the debate that I am concluding with this. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will vote, in accordance with the timing of today's meeting, at 20:00 and 15 minutes. That's why I'm breaking this agenda. At 8 p.m., we will move on to the vote on the points of today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u243	We are moving to a vote on the proposed decisions of the assembly on the agenda items for today. We are at the 17th item of the agenda, we continue to end the 17th item of the agenda, this is the second consideration of the proposal for a law on research and development activities. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. May I have your attention, or we won't know what we're going to vote on. [[Deals from the bench.]] This is the way it is written in the script and we need to fix it - it is a proposal for a law on space regulation. I apologize for a mistake that's not mine, but it happens. Are we ready? Article 6, the amendment of LDS Members' Groups, the Consolidated Lists, SLS and DeSUS shall be put to the vote. We're voting. 64 present, 56 to, 2 to. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 6 has been adopted. Article 12, amendment of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democrats of Slovenia. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. 68 present, 25 for, 33 versus. [[The vote was 25.]] [[Against 33.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the amendment to the 28th Article of the LDS, the United List, the People's Party and DeSUS. We're voting. Present 69, 58, 2 to. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving on to Article 37 and the amendment of the LDS, the United List, the SLS and DeSUS. Anybody want to explain their voice? Comrade Kramberger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u244	Mr Vice-President, I find that my voting device is not working and the microphone is not working in my voting position.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u245	Let's try it again. I'm hanging up for five minutes and I'm asking the office to check the voting device.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u246	We're moving on. The voting apparatus works and the microphone works. May I have your attention, please? We are with Article 37 and the amendment of the four groups of Members. We're voting. 70 present, 68 for, none against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're moving on to Article 58. The amendment of the four groups of Members, the LDS, the United Lists, the SLS and the DeSUS. We're voting. There's 72 present. 68, 1 against. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to 113th Article - Parliamentary Group of Social Democrats of Slovenia. We're voting. There's 72 present. Thirty-two, thirty-two. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to 116th Article - amendment of parliamentary groups, LDS, United Lists, SLS and DeSUS. We're voting. May I have your attention, because we are voting. 70 for. 70 present, 53 for, 8 versus. [[The vote was 53.]] [[Against the 8th.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to 133rd Article - also four groups of Members. We're voting. 71 present. 61, no one's against it. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are moving on to the 170th Article - amendment of the four groups of Members mentioned above. We're voting. There's 72 present. For 65, no one's against it. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. The amendment to Article 179, as well as the four groups of Members. We're voting. 69 attended. The vote was 58.1 against. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. You want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you for your word. In accordance with Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that, since 7 amendments have been adopted, the articles are strong over 200 in order to have a third hearing held within this meeting of the National Assembly. If that's possible, of course, because I think tomorrow's assembly meeting is over. If it's not possible, we'll just wait for the November session. I suggest we do it anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you. That's what we're gonna decide. Since 8 amendments have been adopted in the second reading, this is less than one tenth of the amended bill, which has 191 articles, the applicant proposes that, following Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, we consider the proposal for a third-reading law at this meeting. That's what we're gonna decide. A decision will not be taken if more than one third of the Members present oppose it. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u249	Yes, I do. Once again, I am very respectful of my colleagues in the back. [[...]] The rules of procedure shall apply for at least 24 hours. Which means only if we agree to be here tomorrow night at ten o'clock. Okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u250	My friend Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u251	Thank you for your word. Mr. Chairman! The only article we have really discussed today is still Article 7, which is about the protection of agricultural land, which somehow replaces Article 8 of the Agricultural Lands Act. I have repeatedly asked you where this law establishes, in accordance with Article 71 of the Constitution, where the criteria for special protection of agricultural land are laid down. I am still sure that this law does not contain these criteria, and in the debate for the New Slovenia Group of Members, I have said that I will make an amendment to this article to the third reading. So I would ask you to take this into account, and I don't think it's possible to continue reading this law tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you for your opinion. The proposer made a proposal. We will vote on that. It's up to you to decide. It is not contrary to the Rules of Procedure. We don't know how long we'll be here tomorrow. My friend Kramberger. But again, I'm shutting down for 3 minutes to check the voting device. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u253	We will repeat the vote, but please let no one else vote. May I have your attention, please? We're moving on with our work. After a brief consultation, the Minister will again explain his proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u254	Thank you. I'm sorry. I didn't think I was going to cause such a complication. I'm learning a little bit of the new rules of procedure myself. I'm withdrawing that proposal because it doesn't make sense. The law is to enter into force either way from 1.1.2003 and we need the building law because they are twins, so there is no point in printing it at this meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u255	Thank you very much. Otherwise, tomorrow we might find out that it's not been 24 hours, but we wouldn't have made a decision. In view of this withdrawal, my colleagues and colleagues, I propose to the assembly the following proposal for a decision: "The draft law for third reading is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia." I put this proposal to the vote. We're voting. There are 67 of us present, 56 votes in favour, none against. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the decision has been adopted; this is how we will hold our third hearing at the November session. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to agenda number 18. Since no amendments have been tabled to the amended law on amendments and additions to the law on the protection of the topography of semiconductor connections, the assembly on this point will not vote in the second reading. The third hearing will be held tomorrow, 25.10.2002. There's no need to make that decision today. We move on to the 19th item of the agenda, we continue with the 19th item, this is the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on the return of investments to the public telecommunications network. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "The second is the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the return of investments in the public telecommunications network is submitted to one of the next meetings of the assembly. We will vote on that. We're voting! 71 present. 65 votes in favour, none against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. This concludes item 19 of the agenda. We're moving on to the 20th item of the agenda. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda – consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Industrial Property Act, the reduced procedure. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the draft law in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading of the draft law, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled. That's why we're moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting! 70 present. 61, 1 against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted or the law has been adopted and I conclude the 20th item of the agenda. I am moving on to the 21st item, continuing with the 21st item of the agenda – addressing the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the trade law, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled. First, to Article 1 of the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members. We're voting! There are 73 of us present. There were 26 votes against 43. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't get any support. We are voting on the amendment, also to Article 1, of the Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia. An explanation of the voice? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President! I will, of course, support this amendment and also ask my fellow Members to support it and thereby at least partially protect the dignity of those mothers and women who work in the store all week long and do not have the opportunity to choose any other day of the week as a day off. I think that this amendment is the result of the wishes or demands of trade unions that are somehow behind this content and that we in the Social Democratic Party have somehow summarized it. I think this is a compromise amendment among the first to ban all work on Sunday. This one kind of opens up this option exceptionally. Therefore, we think that this is something medium during the full liberalisation of work on Sundays and, of course, during extremes, this is a total ban. That's why, of course, I'm going to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u257	Thank you. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 70 of us here. 30 votes against 33. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 33.]] The amendment didn't get any support. And the third amendment of the United Nations Group to this Article. [[Nobody wants a word.]] We're voting. There are 70 of us here. There were 22 votes against 35. [[The vote was 22.]] [[Against 35.]] This amendment didn't get any support either. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in a reduced procedure. We are therefore moving on to the third reading of the draft law in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments have been adopted to the amended proposal, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. Explanation of the vote, first Comrade Drobnic and then colleague Sok. Please. On behalf of the delegation?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u258	Yes, on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u259	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u260	Dear colleagues and colleagues. We are finally adopting a law on changes and additions to the trade law, and we are already in an unconstitutional state. The Constitutional Court found that the provisions of the current law were unconstitutional. This change does not change the situation in Slovenian trade. On the basis of a proposal made by the government, which was a kind of compromise, on the other hand, it is only a list of what the Slovenian trade knows. So a collection of some anarchic forms. Therefore, because this anarchy continues because it will create inequality between individual traders and because this will lead to buyers becoming servants of merchants, while workers will not be supported by a member group of this law in such a dictatorship, depending heavily on the harsh working conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you. And my friend Sok. Please. In my own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u262	Thank you very much. I must say that I have listened to this debate today, and the United List has, at least in words, been very involved and spoke here in favour of the workers, mostly the workers, because they are also mostly employed in the store. In fact, through its vote, liberal democracy has proved that it really confirms these slogans, which they have all over Slovenia, namely, solidarity, tolerance and that "we are close". I can't imagine how you can perform at this pre-election time, but when you're working [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u263	Comrade Sok, just explain to the voice how you're going to vote [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u264	I'm just explaining it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u265	Not a dispute with another parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u266	I'm explaining my voice. I am puzzled by such conduct and, in fact, by leaving these parts of the will, I do not know, the modern capitalists. I don't know how you imagine that the workers themselves will be free to decide whether to work on Sundays and holidays. Of course they'll work, they'll force them to do it. I wanted to start by influencing Mrs Simšičeva, and I gave her a nice letter that I received today from one of the workers where she described the situation she was in. I don't think this marriage can be supported either, because it doesn't change anything, but it stays the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u267	Thank you. My friend Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u268	I will support this law, as well as the LDS Parliamentary Group, because the law is the fruit of an agreement in the Economic and Social Council, where all three partners involved in the negotiation were united in order to best regulate opening time in agreement and in mutual trust between traders, owners and, of course, countries. Therefore, I think it is too much for this law to discuss certain other matters. But I'm glad if someone else's LDS is closer than they ever were. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u269	Thank you. Comrade Jerovšek, then Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u270	Thank you very much. I will not support this marriage. This law is far more than a law on trade supplements. This is a law that shows the attitude of Members to workers, to workers, to women, and this relationship has proved through the government majority on this side that you have no respect and no relation to a small man, to an employee. In fact, you've been lowering shop workers to the level of wage labor since the early 19th century. You're all set to do everything in favor of the grand capital. Besides, I understand very well that now before the elections, when you're well-sponsored, you can't work against the grand capital, because then you'd be working against your own interests. But you obviously haven't seen and seen the hardships of a worker who can't even "paint" her children at the end of the week. Introduce as wide a night job as possible for women over the weekend, because it is fine then; then you can also justify the night work of women in all jobs and everywhere. Such a law comes into parliament when the capital is written down by decrees and laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u271	Thank you. Comrade Visjak, then [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I will also vote against the adoption of this law. However, the basis for this decision is to weigh between whether to fully liberalize working hours, today the store, tomorrow probably some other matters, even on traditional work days, such as Sunday, which is what the word itself means, and thus to contribute something to the enforcement and greater meaning of the Slovenian family, to the greater importance of children. I was concerned about the fact that in Slovenia 1,000 Slovenes are less born each year than they die, which means we are going under the coast slowly. I think that this could be one of the symbolic actions to either completely liberalize this or not to completely liberalize or limit work on this only part of the day off, and thus to help build on our system, that is to the family. We or you have simply decided that you will somehow relax this work on Sundays and that is why you demand the agreement of the employees, which is obtained only if there is organised participation of workers in management. What if it's not what's in most cases? What if it's not? How do you get that consent there? It's a dead letter that will never be established, one farce that serves some excuse for it, and if there's any consensus on it. There will be no such agreement and there will be no such agreement, and I would very much like to allow you to be the person who proposes it, the worker who is employed and someone who is in such a way shaping your fate. I'll vote against it. I think there'll be other colleagues. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u273	Thank you. My colleague Peca, or on behalf of the Group of Members?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u274	Your Honor! Before explaining my voice, I would just like to remind you, President, that sometimes you will look into this like halls and see if there is any hand on this side in the air. A hand in the air means that a Member would like to apply for a kind of discussion, that there is no other need to draw attention to it. As far as the law is concerned, the fact that we have addressed the issue on the Committee on the Economy, from which it has been demonstrated how political forces stand and what movements are in this National Assembly. The fact is that, at this point, we are only deciding whether, under point a, whether or not the policy will go to the side of capital, which has also happened today when the pensions are being treated, whether this time it will turn to the human factor and to human freedoms for a change. In this case, we absolutely support people employed in trade activities in the Slovenian National Party. For us, the main focus of our decision was in every way the trade union's progress, in fact, on its working capacities and on the consequences of this work, by those who live for this work. It is difficult for us, as representatives of political parties, to defend various issues, especially when capital is behind them. And in my personal opinion, those Members who will support today's Trade Act will support capital. As I was hoping to allow myself to see about the law that dealt with the matter of pensions, I am also saying here that you will also be financially rewarded for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u275	Thank you. Next up is Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I speak for myself, and I will vote as well as other colleagues of my party. But I just want to explain why. For many years I lived in a society in North America in the United States where there is such a system that on Sundays everything is open, people do and spend what they deserve. Then I also had this opportunity in my life that I have lived for almost seven years in a European country in France, which is not, I don't know how the religious state is, you'll all understand, but they've made a different decision. On Sundays, they decided not to walk on various shopping centers, but to have a different approach to life. We had this opportunity here, and we're gonna waste it tonight. We will waste it on behalf of the consumer society, and I am very surprised that there was no listening to this possibility. In addition to all the other arguments that we have already heard, it is possible to be a successful, modern society today, without being completely subordinate to consumption, as today's society is offering. That's how you'll decide. I regret it for my country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u277	Thank you. The next one has an explanation for the vote of colleague Brenčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u278	Thank you very much. I explain my voice in my own name. I certainly do not support the introduction of work on Sundays and other vacancies, by law-defined work days off, but in such and different circumstances it makes sense to work on Sunday. It is important, however, that a partnership is established on this issue between the two key players, the manager or the employer, the owner and the workers in this process. In the case that we have established a conditional partnership with this law, we have already achieved a great deal in order to start the law on labour co-ordination in practice. And there's nothing else I can say about giving-dam. If workers are to be organised in the same way as they are to be organised in Western Europe today, then the employer will come to the point when he says I can give as much as I can but not anymore. And if the employees don't agree, then the store won't be open. If we have achieved this, we have achieved a great deal in society as a whole. In this context, I think it is reasonable to support the law and it will certainly bring something positive into this area. That's why I'm going to support the amendment and the law or the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u279	Thank you. Next up is a colleague of Puksic's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u280	Thank you very much. With the vast majority of laws, we like to compare ourselves or want to, we want to compare ourselves with European legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u281	Please don't disturb the debaters. Can we continue to listen to a discussion or an explanation of the voice? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u282	As I have already mentioned, we like to compare ourselves with Europe with many things. In this case, it is not necessary to go to France, but it is enough to look just across the border into neighbouring Austria. There are workers working in the store every week, there is a seventh day, a day of rest, a day for some other value, which unfortunately we no longer know or at least some of you no longer know. It's the value of family. It is true that there, too, workers earn an appropriate payment in six days so that at the end of the month they can take care of it or what is needed. It would be better to provide these workers with decent personal income under another law, since management profits are so high that they are divided into large tens or hundreds of millions from day to day, each end of the year, as we read daily in the newspaper. Such a law is actually a disgrace to a Slovenian worker.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u283	Thank you. The next one has an explanation for the vote of colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u284	Thank you very much. I will only complement my fellow Member, Saš Pečet, on behalf of the Slovenian National or he spoke on his behalf, as I did. In the Slovenian National Party, we are wondering why the politicisation of such a problem, which is essentially of a market nature, has economic legality between employers and employees, which can be regulated by regulated legal relations which unfortunately are not regulated by this law. Because each one of us can put himself in the hands of the consumer one day when some trades are supposed to be closed and others do not think so. It is a matter of regulating market relations between employers and employees as a matter of market legality and economic legality. And it is not fair for us to politicize and to transfer to politics and to the National Assembly the decision-making process. And the capital at that, i.e. the employer, is getting what's called an extra profit. It's not a demagogy that we're pulling out and that we're for those who want a day off. And let us leave the demagogy around the European Union, how the European Union has, how we imitate the European Union. The point is that it is not fair for us to decide on things that employers cannot handle on market and other legal grounds and on a fair level. That is why I will also vote against this law until these matters are legally settled between the two market parties, employers and employees. Thank you very much. That's what I'm trying to say. This national assembly and many of us work Saturdays and Sundays, travel around the world on Saturdays and Sundays — this is just a comparison — and no one asks us how much money we have paid or have not paid for it. In short, these are things that are the relationship between the employer and the employee and the attitude towards their responsibility to work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u285	Thank you. The following fellow Member, Lois Peterle, has an explanation of vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u286	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I've had the opportunity to talk to people directly concerned. They spoke very simply and convincingly. For example, one such phrase is: “Which one will hope to say no when the boss asks if you would work on Sunday or on a holiday?” I don't think there's anything more to explain in this direction. Another said: “I stand all day to make the three come by.” I don't think even the cost of doing business is covered by those three purchases. Such cases, especially in the countryside, are not very few. I believe that those who have decided to concrete Slovenia in this area are not at all interested in the performance of a fellow Member. Maybe it'll interest someone else. I am surprised that the compromise solution offered by the New Slovenia Group did not come across a different response to the employees. We have proposed that the so-called extra purchases take place on Sundays towards the end of the year, where there are also slightly greater needs than some other countries do, but this compromise solution has also fallen away. I, in this type of concrete, which is not on behalf of capital, as some say, think it's another matter, I will not support.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u287	Thank you. I give my word to Mark Diation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u288	Thank you for your word. I won't support this marriage either. I will not support him because of the non-adopted amendment, which I believe is the most effective and is talking about six days a week. At the same time, he talks about the agreement between employers and employees. That's the key thing about this thing, in my opinion. 6 days a week and agreement between employers and employees. As I said, the combined list proposed an amendment that was not adopted. That's why I won't support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u289	Thank you. And Geza Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u290	Thank you very much. I will support the law for the reason stated by the leader of the parliamentary group, because all three who are affected here have aligned and agreed to the text. There was a "blef" on the Committee on the Economy, but let's leave, but there is a period before the elections and this is a case that is coordinated. I am not most pleased with the solution because I would be satisfied if I said that it was Sunday in this country, but all the other days we're talking about were either working or not working. We have now left this matter to an agreement that can create a mood disorder among people. The problems you're talking about, I don't agree. It's no problem if the workers will be at the counter on Sunday if we're at the store or at the mass. The problem is how this job will be paid. This is the subject of solutions in another labour law, which we have had the opportunity to hear that in many cases it is not respected. This is a problem and not a trade law, because there are areas, there are industries where people want to work on Sundays and holidays, of course, if they are properly stimulated, and then for all the same solutions, these provisions are respected. For this second part, we must specifically take the initiative of those who speak very boldly about the rights of workers to be achieved, if necessary, and that they are primarily carried out or supervised, because we have identified 80% of cases supervised where violations are committed. I'll vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u291	Thank you. And Miran Potch applied to explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u292	Thank you very much. The Group of the Joint List of Social Democrats will vote in favour of the law. If we do not adopt the law, relations regarding working time in trade will remain unregulated, anarchic, extremely liberal and, on top of that, the solution will be contrary to the Constitutional Court's decision. As regards the demands of the workers to whom we all refer, the requirements went in two directions. The first was that, on Sundays, holidays, and others, by law, certain work should not be done on certain days off until or when agreement was reached with the workers. This requirement is incorporated into the law. And this was one of the requirements, conditioned in particular by the fact that this consent to work on Sundays, holidays and others by the law of certain days off also has one strong weapon on the part of the union and employees, that there is no agreement if there is no simultaneous agreement on how it will compensate for Sunday work, so that it will not be so miserable, I would say, 300 tolars for the whole day as we have spoken here. And in this part, important progress has been made in the law. It is true, however, that no other progress has been made, which has also been required of trade unions. This is to ensure that employees in the store are free one day a week. And this was the requirement contained in our amendment, in accordance with a letter received from the trade union of Slovenia by all parliamentary groups dated 25.9.2002. Unfortunately, this proposal is not adopted, so it will still be possible that they will have to work in trade for seven days and that it will depend on the ability and objective possibilities of inspectors to sanction abuses and violations of the trade law. So one is achieved, the other is not. Regrettably, if all those who spoke and that union positions were to be respected, at least the minimum proposal that was made by our party, at least one of the union's demands would be fully respected and the other part taken into account. But you were more inclined to defend each of your principles, but now we have a law that has no amendments. Regardless, we think it's better that something is arranged than nothing is arranged, and we will vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u293	Thank you. We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting on the law. There are 70 of us present, 40 votes against 28. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 28.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 22nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the right of industrial property from the working relationship - a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. Since no amendments were adopted in the second reading of the draft law, the third reading of the amendments cannot be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the law. We're voting on the law. There are 70 of us present, 61 votes against 1. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 23rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the proposal for a law amending the Law on the First Pension Fund of the Republic of Slovenia and the transformation of authorised investment companies, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled. The amendment of the DeSUS Group is tabled in Article 1. That's what we're going to decide now. We're voting. I'm sorry, I'll just leave it to the end, and then we'll give an explanation to the vote. I'm sorry. This vote is therefore not valid. Explanation of the voice Blaž Kavčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u294	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I will not support this amendment because the vote of this amendment would, of course, mean the elimination of the only substantive point of this bill, and I will support the law in its entirety, because the debate also shows that the fact remains that this change brings, in a simplified way, the possibility of obtaining an old rent of around 30,000 tolls, a 50-60-year-old group. All the concerns expressed, some of which were very serious, go beyond the scope that this law can resolve.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u295	Thank you. Explanation of the vote Ivan Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u296	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We have tabled this amendment to prevent what has already been found in June and is now returning to a small door again after two months if I count down vacations or holidays. Two months before the final decision on 31 December, we tabled these amendments and in explanation stated so many arguments that speak against it. The credibility of this national assembly will be judged by citizens, not by voters. We do not fight against those 70,000 or those 70,000 who have up to 1000 pensions, but the misleading of the applicants is so clear that they speak on one side that it is good for the crowd, but in fact it is only and they point out this, for those who are the richest to be allowed at a small door, whether they already have the highest frozen pensions or whether they count that their pensions will be so high that they cannot be higher with regard to the pension base. Now that we have limited the ratio of 1:8 to 1:4 in this National Assembly, it is now up to those highest who want to provide additional rents at a higher level. The reduction in the number of beneficiaries of these vouchers, which will change into an additional insurance policy, is only beneficial to the rich and only those who already have the vouchers, and other citizens have the opportunity to collect the vouchers if they have 1 million to 2 on the feeding book or in a sock.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u297	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u298	And we're a socialist because I speak on behalf of the parliamentary group, I have one more minute. [[...]] Because they have abused part of the Members in order to vote on this amendment of the law, we, from a social sense and from a responsibility to all citizens, are against this law and I beg you to vote in favour of this amendment, so that those few rich or wealthy people will be prevented if I express myself better that they will take advantage of this opportunity given by this amendment, which has already failed once in June. And the government, instead of putting itself in a certain position, as it stood at that time, today as Pontius Pilate washes his hands [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u299	Comrade Kebrich, now it's 1 minute too. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u300	avoiding and simply not defining to this law. [[…]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u301	Thank you. I would ask all those who begin to explain their voices to speak on behalf of the Group of Members so that we can take the right time. He's a friend of mine.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u302	On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u303	That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u304	The amendment proposed by the Democratic Party of Pensioners will be supported by the Slovenian National Party. Just for the reason that they won't support him in the Liberal Democracy. Because this is what we are trying to achieve in the shortest possible way to make the marriage impossible and thus to bring the law to a standstill. We sincerely hope that the law, at least at this point through the amendment, cannot come to life and that it will not cause new injustices and new social differences, which we all say must not be in this state. But, unfortunately, your actions are increasingly similar to the opposite. [[I'll take another two and a half minutes.]] If the purpose of the Liberal Democracy and the Slovenian People's Party were to be fair and in line with your explanation, they would change the substance of the legislation in this area in the following three segments and not rob the holders of the vouchers compared to the new holders of the voucher. Firstly, the extension period could be extended for at least a year and a half so that people, including those who are not exactly capital enough, can reach the appropriate capital and switch the vouchers to 30,000. Another time. It would be necessary to identify the records of the original owners. As we know, ownership of these vouchers has changed so much that in this area there is a question of who the original owner is and who is the one the country was trying to help in the initial phase. So the ones who won the vouchers through the privatisation system. And step three. If your purpose were truly quality or as you define in your words, it would be for these registered original owners, namely, ordinary citizens, to be able to exchange these vouchers for the value of the nomination. Ladies and gentlemen, only in this way could we come from the story of pension vouchers on a real basis and people would actually be paid for, some of the wages they have invested in these pensions and others in the trust they have in these pensions. To talk about the purpose of this law, if, how good it is, how honest it is, and how it will guarantee greater social security in the future, of course, is "lari fari". It is a simple matter of how to make it easier for KAD to operate with a smaller number of shareholders or holders of vouchers. On the other hand, the question is, of course, whether the management of these vouchers has been effective for the time being and how many KADs even have the coverage to cash them out on the one hand. In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the amendment, and we will oppose the law itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u305	Thank you. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u306	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I speak on behalf of the Group of Members. We will support this amendment, otherwise we strongly oppose the law as a whole. I'm sure you will recall that at the beginning of the previous meeting, I raised a question with the Prime Minister, Drnovšku. Finally, I asked him what his opinion or position was on the statement made by the Director of the Securities Market Agency when he said that a change of ownership was impossible without theft. Mr Drnovšek then replied that, although it was published in the media, he was not aware and would not comment. When we listened to the government's position on this law in the debate today in this National Assembly, when the government's representative made it clear that the government supports this law, I estimate that I have received, not only me, but also we all received today's silent reply from the Prime Minister to this question. Apparently he thinks it's impossible to make a change in property without stealing, and he adds something else, he quietly adds, without cheating. This law, by rejecting the same proposal in June, when KAD secretly started buying vouchers when the price fell, today we have come to consider the same law after all, is totally unacceptable. It is unacceptable to change the rules of the game in the middle of the game. This law, once adopted, will be a book proof of what happens in politics when lobbyists come as far as they have come in our country. It is unacceptable and unconstructive for the future development of our capital market, thus destroying the credibility of institutions and deepening the disappointment that people have over all that is happening in our country. It seems so, but I judge myself among those who believe that the most complex issue of transition can also be solved in a transparent and legal way, that we do not necessarily need to steal, and that we need to create credibility, that we will once again live in this country, what the rule of law means. We will vote in favour of this amendment and we are firmly against this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-24-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u307	Thank you. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the DeSUS Group. We're voting. There are 69 of us present, 39 votes against 18. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 18.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. Since amendments to the amended law were adopted, I interrupt. The assembly services will prepare an overview of the amendments and the articles to which the amendments were adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law in the framework of the reduced procedure tomorrow, 25.10.2002. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda - the first reading of the proposal of the building law. We are moving on to a decision on the following decision: "The proposal of the Buildings Act, the first consideration, is suitable for further consideration." That's what we're gonna decide. We're voting. There are 66 of us present, 59 votes in favour, none against. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The decision is adopted. I note that the National Assembly has adopted a decision and that the law will therefore be allocated to the home labour body. I conclude this agenda item and move on to the 26th item of the agenda, I apologize, the 25th item of the agenda, the proposal of the law on investment funds and management companies - urgent procedure. The draft law was put into consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. On 22.10.2002, the Government replaced the text of the draft law with a new one which had not yet been addressed by the mother's working body. Therefore, I propose to the Assembly, on the basis of Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, that we postpone this item to the next meeting of the National Assembly. It is not possible to discuss this proposal with Members, and representatives of the groups can communicate their views within three minutes and there is no explanation for the vote. Any of the representatives of the parliamentary groups would like a word? Because no, we'll decide that. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 48 votes against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 19th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you all for your cooperation, and I want a good night.
