ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, a beautiful, good day to you! I begin the continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meetings of the following Members and Members: Roberto Battelli, Zmaqo Jelinčič Plmeniti, Mihael Brejc, Ferri Horvat, Jelko Kacin, Anton Partljič, Janez Drobnič from 12.30 p.m., Dorian Maršič, Yuri Malovra, Slavko Gaber, Franc Čebulj, Maria Possonec, Alojz Peterle, Roman Jakič, Miran Jerič, Dušan Vučko, Davorin Terčon, Cveta Zalokar Orazem, Milan Kopuzar, Richard Beumann, Igor Štemberger, Andrej Bajuk, Janzko, Bojan Kontič, Pavel Rupar, Stanislav Brenčič, Alexander Merlo from 13.00 p.m.m. I apologize, Mr Beumann is among us; therefore, the Group's notification obviously does not. Since we're going to find out the presence in the hall, please insert the cards and press the "quorum" button. We're detecting a presence. The first determination of attendance was not successful. I think there's enough of us in the hall. In view of the very long list of our colleagues and colleagues who are absent, our presence here today will, of course, require our very much-concluded work to be able to carry out a more decisive agenda. That's why I'm asking for your attention. Next time, we find presence in the hall. There are 47 Members and Members present; the National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting. I welcome all the invited guests here. Today's continuation of the 14th meeting of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of the discontinued 10th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Health Relevance of Food and Products and substances that come into contact with food. Then we will move on to the 21st item, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the veterinary law, and in order of order. So we move on to yesterday's break of 10. It's a day's work. We are still in the stage of the general debate, and I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The opinion of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by Mrs Danica Simšič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues, Minister, Secretary of State! The United List of Social Democrats supports the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Health Relevance of Food and Products, as well as substances coming into contact with food, by means of a reduced procedure as presented by the Government in the procedure. In the Consolidated List, we support both those changes that mean harmonisation with the European Union and, of course, those that are much more important and much more crucial to today's debate. This is the introduction of the Food and Nutrition Office, because we believe that the area of human nutrition is so important that you are also in Slovenia, not only because it requires Europe, we deserve and need a food office that will check the appropriateness of food, because, after all, we have this area quite well regulated for animal nutrition, feed and so on, and it is also right that we arrange these things for people, even though sometimes we are jokingly saying that we are the people of the most suffering animals. And, of course, the second part, which is extremely important, even in relation to concern about our diet, is that it is good that the law defines the government as preparing a food policy, a nutrition strategy and that it will submit this to the National Assembly, which will adopt this programme and this strategy as its national programme. Thirdly, with regard to the regulation of advertising of alcohol and alcoholic beverages, i.e. other authorised drugs in the Republic of Slovenia. We believe it is right that this issue is finally settled, that clear rules are laid down, what is allowed and what is not allowed, and that sanctions and liability for possible infringements are, of course, also imposed. In doing so, I would like to say that in the combined advertising paper, we will support the solutions proposed by the government in the main, and we will support the solution proposed by the mother's labour force in relation to road advertising, because we believe that we need to be very careful with the information we hear from the Minister and that we are constantly meeting in the Slovenian public, that we are very high on the amount of pure alcohol consumed and that we are particularly vulnerable to youth, which is also extremely vulnerable to advertising. We believe that it is right to support a more restrictive solution. So these are our views, which we will continue to defend in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u3	Thank you. Would any of the other MPs want it? On behalf of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group, Mr Sašo Peče. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! In the Slovenian National Party, we see one major flaw, unlike the other parliamentary groups. It seems to us that the bill itself indicates that there are no people within the framework of the Home Minister who would be able to assess the value of this law economically. According to our assumption, I will not go into content, but only into economic arguments, but the awareness is that the demand for alcohol, as well as tobacco products, and ultimately wherever excise duties are, is also a gas tolar. And to speak and use the argument that this will reduce the consumption of what would naturally be healthy and smart in our society is, of course, misleading ourselves and everyone else. Unfortunately, we're not going to achieve anything. The advertising of those products whose demand is sore, unfortunately, cannot be affected in the form of advertising. So I just want to point out that it seems very pointless to us that you are the ministry and, of course, those Members and those Members of Parliament who are very much shouting and saying how right it is, how will we reduce the negative effects and, let's say, the quantity, it seems pretty double to us. If we were to go into a solution that would actually correspond, which would actually have a positive impact, this should not be in this form that the categories of promotion are uniform and that the elements of the rigidity of individual demand for individual product categories are not taken into account. Another issue, which, in our view, is also in conflict with constitutional norms, whether local authorities or local governments, is interference with the form of advertising. As you probably know, all 192 congregations, or a good part of 192 congregations, are defined in one of the forms resulting from the Law on Public Economics. Some are in the form of a directorial establishment, some in the form of public enterprises. In particular, there are most of them, in the form of concessional public services, for which they have defined their local acts already in force and contracts with individual advertisers, concessionaires, short-term concessionaires and concessionaires, will be reduced in this case. I speak for advertising where I refer to the one where the Ministry tries to limit or set a dimension within the framework of the law itself. I think that this, I have only made two arguments, I think that these two arguments are sufficient that this law should, of course, be welcomed, but that this law should be defined in more detail, or in the law itself, to answer two essential questions, which is the purpose of which we doubt in the Slovenian National Party that it is the one presented by the Minister. Especially in view of the specificity of the offer or demand for products that have recently been very classed out of our mouths. Other matters: interference with already acquired rights of legal and natural persons who have obtained these rights from their acts, or from acts adopted at municipal level. These are concession contracts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u5	Thank you. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. Members and Members shall have the floor. Mr Franci Rokavec submitted himself to the debate in writing. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Members! Hello, Mr. Secretary. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Health Relevance of Foods and Products and Substances in Contact with Food has two of the most basic amendments. One introduces the way and conditions for advertising alcoholic beverages. And another, of course, is being established by the Food and Nutrition Office. Perhaps all the debate, as I have seen it so far, is more in the light of the opening of the possibility of advertising alcoholic beverages. And it is also more likely, as I have seen, that the opening performance of the Minister himself devoted a significantly greater weight to this point than other points, which is probably even more important. In fact, the Food and Nutrition Office means that a specific institution is finally established in that country to ensure the nutritional safety of all citizens and citizens. This is probably such an important institution that we may not even be aware of it at this time. The fact is, however, that it is likely that the functioning of this office, as provided for in Article 13, is questionable. Indeed, the law itself may be partly premature in matters that are being adopted in the legislative process. In fact, it will also be possible to establish offices within the government by law on administration. In view of the overall food policy, I think it would be much better if this office were established and also managed as a government body as a whole. It is a fact, and at least the experience of the time of the operation of individual offices within individual ministries shows that they are often subordinated to the partial interests of a designated source. And in this way, there is renewed fear that even in this case the integrity of the food policy, which this office should also reflect, can be questioned. I therefore think that it would probably be useful in Article 13 to amend this dictatorship - that the Food and Nutrition Office should establish the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In this way, it would probably be easier to achieve this objective to actually prepare not only a national strategy and a proposal for a national food policy management programme, but also to actually achieve a balanced implementation of the food policy in its entirety so as not to subject any daily policy to it. At least in many cases, we can see that many times between individual offices, which are under the responsibility of one or another ministry, there are different interpretations, a certain issue and very difficult coordination before a single issue is resolved. And it would probably be necessary to think seriously or then to upgrade further that it would make sense to think about setting up an office within the entire government, not a single ministry. It is also possible to think in this sense that this matter will be rectified subsequently, even when the legal options for the latter will also be rectified, when the procedure for the law on administration is also concluded, in order to actually consider whether it would not make sense for this institution to form a central institution at that time. The European Union is devoting a great deal of attention to the policy of safe food. And I am sure that in this way we would probably achieve the most that could be achieved in order to actually provide consumers with safe food, and in particular to provide the entire population of the Slovenian State with in fact such a food policy in order to improve the health status of the entire population. So much for a little while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u7	Thank you. I no longer have written applications for the debate, so the debate is limited to 5 minutes. Mrs. Shirca called first, please. Then Mr. Skull.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u8	Thank you very much. It is a good year since all advertising of alcoholic beverages has been banned, and at the time of the adoption of the media law, no one has overreacted to this absolute advertising abstinence. The restriction was understood as protecting one interest over another, such as health over economics. In this way they were disadvantaged advocates, in nicknames, cultivated drinking, if you need advertising at all, and advertisers of manufacturers or indirect consumers, to athletes in the last place or the first. I suppose not the poorest, but apparently not the rich advertisers and advertisers have begun to pressure and thus to back down the basic purpose of the ban that once advocated by the media law. So the interest of the nation, which is marked not to say stigmatized by immeasurable drinking and its consequences. This pressure has obviously been very systematic, as in recent times there have been suggestions on how to relax advertising. We had a proposal from a fellow Member who put forward a special proposal for a law and then also withdrew it, which dealt only and solely with the release of advertising. The Minister of Health has prepared a proposal for a law on alcohol limitation. However, since, of course, I suppose, he ran into too much market opposition with him, he moved advertising material into the food health law that we have before us. Of course, with this, as we understand yesterday, he did not abandon his intention to solve the whole problem of limiting alcoholic beverages further, but he took more time to do so. In short, even though understanding the impact of advertising alcoholic beverages on alcohol consumption or on human health in essence can be very relative and even though many may claim that the capital it converts and brings to advertising is more important to the country than health, I believe that sustainability is the right sustainable form in advertising a drink, certainly a value indicator for society's awareness. The Ministry of Human Health is aware of this, so I also understand that it is closer to him if I sum up yesterday's performance by the Minister, that he is closer to the marriage material that deals with the restriction on alcohol use than to the one that indirectly releases it. Even though the alcohol restriction law is not yet in the National Assembly, I can say that I am already in favour of the dug in its established form, unless it is in the process of experiencing too many changes by interested groups, which are few. Therefore, if he insists on a ban on filling in certain inn facilities at certain times, if he restricts young people's access to alcohol, if he restricts the ban on the supply of alcoholic beverages in road shops and if he strengthens control over all these restrictions. The proposal to release the advertising that we now have on the table is not some kind of "wouldn't" solution. Well, I'd advertise, but not under such conditions. These conditions are quite sober, there is a mix of variations that other countries also practice, which I also stress, which are also breaking down on solutions, how to limit what is allowed to some limit. The release in this law summarises those prohibitions that are already known by the signatories to the Convention on Cross-border Television from a ratified version of this Convention. At the same time, they also introduce new ones, such as the ban on advertising in "prime time" in visual media, as well as early evening hours in cinematographers, message carriers near schools, roads and so on. Otherwise, I'm afraid the market inspection won't be out of control over these solutions. I am very sorry that the media inspectorate at the Ministry of Culture has avoided control or assistance for control, but I suppose he will be involved in this for sure. [[Pisk.]] Let me finish. The solutions ahead of us mean some kind of compromise between the demands of those who have exercised their will through pressure and during the selective acceptance of this will, so it seems reasonable to support the release of advertising in a restrictive but not liberal way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u10	Thank you very much. My debate, which is not yet agreed, will largely relate to what we already have and to those prohibitions that are in force in the Republic of Slovenia, and this law, I will say, unfortunately relaxes them. My proposal would be that the State Assembly in Article 15a, which this law brings, deletes that part of the article that says 'alcoholic beverages are prohibited on radio and television between 7.00 and 21.30'. This would actually mean nothing but staying in the current regime, this is the regulation of the media law. All other definitions of what the message must be, and so on, do not seem as worthy of correction as this fundamental discussion, or is it possible to agree that something that is valid for a good year is, in fact, releasing the same national assembly. It would also be easier to exercise control over the implementation of the law, since full advertising in the media, where - not blinding - a key part of the influence and advertising business could be carried out by an inspectorate already established under the law in force. With this in my opinion, we will not strike any particular blow to those who want to represent new products, cultivate beer and so on, but simply retain some restriction, from which, as the minister says, in the end, those who care for their health, not for other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please, then Mr. Tarchoon.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President. Dear fellow Members and Members! I must say that I myself will discuss this matter slightly differently, as I have heard on behalf of all the parliamentary groups that support what the Ministry proposes without distinction. Look, we're in the media law, I think we missed - and at that time, it was really adopted and forbidden to advertise any alcoholic beverages. This law now says that this matter is in some way trying to relax, but if we apply this criterion that 300 meters near schools and kindergartens and on the road it is not possible to advertise alcoholic beverages, then this is exactly the same - I do not know the Slovenian city where schools would be more than 300 metres away from each other. So we're stuck with the same thing -- we're saying something, we're offering something, but it's actually going to stay the same. What worries me is that in this advertising restriction we also push wine, for example, quality wines. You must know that a good part of the Slovenian economy is linked to the production of wine and that the areas Haloz, Slovenski gorica, Primorska, Dolenjska, areas that are also dependent on it are also the most endangered areas in the demographic sense of the word. Today, wine growers have large surpluses of wine that they cannot sell, and they cannot offer quality wine unless they are given the opportunity to present it through the public. I think that concern for our youth - I support this matter - but with only the restriction, it is said by the prohibition of advertising quality wines, of course I do not believe that this can be achieved. Caring for our youth should be broader than merely preventing alcohol consumption. I think we should first of all stress what we are neglecting in order to include in education programmes the education which is somehow excluded from education programmes today. It is said that our youth would be taught a cultural attitude towards drinking, to be presented there with what it means for health and so on. If we were to protect our youth, we should do much more to protect our youth from drugs. Here's our relationship, I hope you'll find, milky. Even proposals are made to legalise certain forms of soft drugs and so on. If we were to protect our youth, we should eventually do something, and I already told the minister when he visited our parliamentary group and then presented his marriage to us, we should do something about protecting our young people from pornography. Today, you can see the most brutal pornographic magazines on the shelf in almost every delicacy store, depicting on the front pages the ugly role of most women in our society. I don't know why the government doesn't get away with this. Why can our growing children watch the most brutal pornographic programs on every local KTV program immediately after 10 p.m., which are mostly advertised under "erotic programs" and so on. That's a fact. I had the opportunity to go like this in Slovenia, and then where to turn on the TV, and see what is not offered through these cable local systems. So all of this should be in the minds of the government when it comes to protecting our youth. All that affects our Slovenian cultural identity and manifests itself as a culture in some space, but in fact it is an anti-culture. I think that by preventing the advertising of wine itself, of course, this impact on youth we will not be able to prevent. Moreover, if we had even invented the complete prohibition that some socialist-communist countries, such as the Soviet Union, sometimes had, would not have achieved the goal. Even the opposite. They had the most alcoholics. Because they strictly banned it. It is said that what is forbidden in some way is also most inviting and sweet. So I don't believe in this law, like in this part, about advertising alcoholic beverages. And I think that, at least as far as advertising quality types of wine is concerned, if the minister has already thought to push this matter into this law, the government should do much more and otherwise resolve it as presented here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u13	Thank you. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u14	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I'd like to express my own [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u15	Excuse me, Mr. Tarchoon, Mr. Gasparini, did you wish to replicate? Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u16	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate Mr. Sok, and I'd like to complement him. Mr. Sok, it's like you live outside this Slovenia. You're talking about youth, that this country doesn't really care about pornography, drugs and so on. I think you're familiar with all these programs running. Well, I'd just like to fill you in on something. I don't know a doctor in Slovenia so I don't recommend not drinking alcohol. I don't know. Because we know, as Minister Keber said alcohol is harmful to health. The problem is somewhere else. The problem is, we don't know how to drink alcohol. So we don't have a drinking culture. I think Mrs Simšič talked about this yesterday. So don't say we don't have programs, don't say we don't do anything for drugs, for pornography, and I don't know what. On the one hand, you criticize it, on the other hand, you kind of want alcohol to be advertised, so in your opinion, especially these good, I don't know the ingredients and I don't know what else. So, be consistent.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mr Sok, allow me to welcome in our midst the Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Sweden, Mr Göran Persson. Welcome. [[Let's hear it.]] Replica has Mr. Sok. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u18	Dear colleague Gasparini! If you've listened closely to me, I've talked about training in educational programs, and I agree with you that drinking culture is lacking. But who should do it if not the one who's actually raising our children today? These are schools. I didn't say the state didn't do anything either. I know these programs are. I know doctors also advise and tell you what I know, smoking is harmful, drinking alcohol is harmful. But last night, when I was driving in the car, listening to a show designed by young people and laughing, they said how we believed the one who held the cigarette in his hand and explained how harmful it was. So, these are the things. The odds are drawing, that's for sure. When we talk about alcohol, I agree with all that spending should be limited, but I'm talking about quality wines. I was talking about quality wines. So this is the kind of thing that also affects the drinking culture that we should allow to be presented to the public in some way. Alcohol is a much broader concept, but wine has, of course, been valid since the Slovenians moved to this country, like some Slovenian interest, which has been transferred and retained in this area If you ask people, they will say that they consider wine as food and use it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Now it's a debate. Mr. Tarchoon, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u20	Thank you very much. I would like to express my concerns about the establishment and establishment of a food and nutrition office in this law. I think this is about the duality of the criteria of the government. So we will have at one of the next meetings, preferably at the next, a proposal for a state administration law. According to a proposal prepared by the Government, the draft law on the State of Administration provides for a discretionary right to the Government to set up bodies in its composition. Now we are establishing a food and nutrition office, which is an organ in the composition. Given that I foresee that we will shortly adopt a general regulation regulating the areas of state administration, which will give the government discretion to set up its own bodies, the question is, of course, whether we have not been able to miss the goal. And I also ask the secretariat whether, despite the provisions to be adopted, we can therefore establish an office, if the will of the government is to be so, and if we adopt a law on state administration in the proposed text, we will not have an office if, of course, we adopt in the law on State Administration the discretionary right of the government to set up bodies in its composition. I'm joining Mr. Rockman's thinking myself. I think it would be more prudent to leave the decision on the establishment of the office to the government itself, that is, to leave the discretionary right of the government itself, to leave the government a discretionary right, which is already provided for in the State Administration Act. I'll back this up with another case. At this meeting we also have a proposal for a law on local self-government. Some wanted this law to also regulate the salaries of mayors who were lagging behind in the growth of other salaries. However, we have adopted a reduced procedure because the government has proposed not to put this into law, because this issue will be addressed by the law on the public sector's wage system. So I don't understand why I have such an approach to one marriage, and in another law, I have such an approach. And I also ask the secretariat whether we can also find ourselves in a situation where the office, despite having it written down in the law, is, of course, provided that the law on state administration is passed in the proposed text and that such a decision by the government is not discretionary, we will not have it. Otherwise, I am joining previous debaters who are thinking mainly that this is a law in a package of restrictive laws, although it is undeniably true that we are liberalising the field of advertising and that it has now been much more restrictive. I believe or fear that over time we will again find that by restrictive regulation such as this, we have not achieved a goal and that it would probably suggest that we approach such problems in a more reasonable way.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please. Then Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I didn't pay particular attention to this marriage because I'm not on the board. However, by following up on this, even through the media, I note exactly what my colleague Terchón has said before me, that the establishment of offices and the solutions in this law to the duality of government criteria. I am grateful that the Member of the most powerful government party notices this. More! I have also noticed the complete disorientation, the dispersion of government members and government in some other solutions. In fact, this is a matter of extreme duality and disharmony, and I don't think that's a good thing. This clearly shows that the government in these two important areas that we are talking about today is the appropriateness of advertising alcoholic beverages or a wider ban, in some way also advertising quality wines, and in the field of regulation, in the field of nutrition, the Food Office, there is no orientation. Last year, one thing was adopted in the media law, in fact, we are now adopting a completely different matter. There's a perfect match in these offices, not just in this area. Each minister has a lobby behind him that puts pressure on him to set up an office whose city and placement are not entirely clear. I would ask my colleagues from the government coalition and the government to harmonise, not to show this duality, this disharmony, and not to come to the National Assembly with such proposals. Regarding the advertising of alcoholic beverages and the consequences of a total ban, or now a somewhat relaxed matter, I must say that the government should consider honestly before doing anything; be aware of the economic importance of the production of wine in Slovenia and, on the other hand, what is the main cause of the increase in alcoholism in recent years, for example, even in Slovenia's own social distress, social dispersion, social insecurity, and the government's actions as a whole. All this, the grip, the hopelessness, the decomposition, it's growing. Of course, you are the main representatives of a handful of people who are, under the terms, successful. And now, with some fire-fighting measures, you want to show something to the public, as if you care about the general state of the spirit and health among the people, among the people, and every two months you bring a new law into Parliament, laws that are completely uncoordinated, which have no clear orientation. And I suggest to the government, to the gentlemen of the government, that they start in the field of the social status of the average Slovenian man, that this social hope be reduced, that young people see a future, that they have the opportunity to work, that they will not be faced with every day, that if you are not of the highest authority or have no connections in power, that you are actually lost. This is also the main source of alcoholism in Slovenia. And today, let us ask ourselves how the story of success has made people more hopeless and desperate to drink. Here is the real destination of the work for the current government or after ten years of the same government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u23	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, I very much ask that we stick to the agenda in our debates, namely the content of the law, because we have the objectives of the law before us in this work, this is in the general debate, the right to debate. And I'm asking you to stick to the debates on this job. This is the case in the Rules of Procedure and in all other general matters which, of course, also bother us, there is no room for them to deal with a specific law. Replica, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u24	A replica of the previous interlocutor, on the question of setting up an office or a fact that was just stated to be a matter of contention. It is not at all a matter of conflict if you have a bill on the table that offers the possibility of setting up an office to take care of food policy. And you also have the opportunity to identify yourself. We cannot talk today about what a law will bring tomorrow, which we have not yet seriously discussed. And if so, then we may wonder whether there will be a situation at the time when we will not actually be faced with the power to establish or not to set up offices if the solutions will go in the direction of setting up offices at will or only government acts. I think it makes a lot of sense that this time we're facing a solution that's inconvenient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Jerovšek. I really ask that you stick only to this replication work, which Mrs Shirca has cited.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u26	He's going to do a performance by a colleague of Shirca's, and I'm going to answer hers alone. Comrade Shirtz, I do not know if you have listened to the debate of your fellow Member, Mr Terchoon. And I think you also have some connection with the Slovenian language to worry a lot about whether the duality of government criteria can be said to be a match in the government. My friend Tarchon talked about it. I agree with what Comrade Terchon said. And that's a classic case of contraption. Of course, Comrade Terchón did not mention this difficult expression, for in some way he still has to look at his government with one eye. But on the other hand, isn't it a struggle if it doesn't really know what this office is going to do? If there are no bases and placements? I don't need to tell you, I recommend that you listen to your colleagues and make sure they're talking about momentum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u27	Thank you very much. I think then, given what Mr Terchoon has asked from the representative of the Secretariat, we will also get an answer. I thought I'd give the floor to two other Members of Parliament earlier who took the floor. Replica, Mr Terchoon, then two more Members, and then I will ask the secretariat representatives to explain. Mr. Tarchoon, please. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u28	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I also intended to suggest that we listen as soon as possible to the Secretariat's response on my question. However, I must replicate to my fellow Member, Shirce, although I must say that Mr Jerovšek was somewhat exaggerated by the conclusions that I did not make. So, Mrs. Shirca says we're giving the opportunity to set up an office. I don't object to the office being set up or not. I oppose the establishment of an office in my own way. I assume that this office is needed and that the government will also establish it. But I'm sorry, it's clearly written in the law, article 13 says "the food office is established" and transitional provisions say that it should be established by 1.1.2003 at the latest. That's something else. This is not opening the way for the establishment of an office, this is setting up an office. And that's not the right "vis-a-vis" legislation coming into the National Assembly. It is not the right "vis-è-vis" of the law on state administration, which gives the discretionary right to the government to set up an organ in its composition, which is the office. My thought has mainly gone this way to open up the possibility if there is a need for the establishment of this office. But today we are in conflict with the laws that we will adopt and are general rules in a certain area that these laws must be harmonized with. As for the establishment of the office itself, in substance, I will say that I have some concerns here. Although I suppose that this office is necessary, the rule in this National Assembly is that almost every law establishes a body in its composition, an agency, an office, also funds, and so on, and I must find that red tape is being strengthened and the state is becoming very expensive. I am very afraid that the fate of this office will be similar and that there will be no results, but that we will only have a more expensive and more bureaucratic country than we already have and which is too expensive and too bureaucratic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Of course, the Secretariat would first point out that the National Assembly is always moving within the framework of the current regime. The proposed arrangements are only in the stage of proposals and do not bind anyone. From this point of view, I would also like to point out that the Secretariat has in fact strong systemic comments on the arrangements proposed by the Government regarding the establishment of bodies in its composition. In fact, it is up to the National Assembly to decide how it will and how it will then stand, even under the constitutional provisions. As far as the office is concerned, we believe that, given the tasks currently assigned to this office under the Systemic Law on Administration and under the Constitution, it is only right to move into the Ministry. Because the Constitution in Article 121, paragraph 1, explicitly states: "The tasks of the administration shall be carried out directly by the Ministry." And if the administration performs administrative tasks under the new concept, according to the constitution, it cannot be placed anywhere but in a ministry. When it comes to government offices, we stress that they can only perform more or less some coordination and analytical and similar semi-professional development joint tasks, not administrative tasks. So from this point of view, we consider the solution to be correct in relation to the system in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We continue the debate. Mr. Kebrich has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u32	Thank you for the floor, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues, Mr. Secretary! I do not wish to delay this debate, but I do not think it is only useful, but it is necessary to accept certain amendments as they have been submitted. I will say that in the Committee on Health, Labour and the Family, we have discussed each article in a very large, substantive way and have drafted certain amendments. That's why I'm going to support them. Especially for the following reason, especially because this law extends the concept of food and it is particularly worth stressing that we have included drinks in this article. But as far as alcohol is concerned, and I'm not going to repeat or replicate it, the fact is the following. One of the simple people knew about such and different whiskeys and all the rest after the liberation, that I did not talk about the period before the war.No one until the mega cried, we saw those who drove to the Zagreb fair when such and other TV commercials appeared. What prompted the youth to start buying these drinks, even at high prices. From the basic belief or desire of snobbery? The standard of living is on average increasing and therefore the needs or consumption of those higher or more expensive drinks are also increasing. And that is why we believe in our parliamentary group, as agreed, that we must take certain measures so that they will not cry and I do not know what kind of television advertising at a time when children are watching cartoons and TV shows, that there will be no television and other radio and such advertising for these alcoholic beverages. I am also of the opinion that Slovenia is a wine-growing country and that this is our great potential and great opportunities opening up when we enter Europe, that we will know our quality wine in an appropriate way to represent also abroad, because quality wines require quality beers. And if we work together here, which is highlighted, on government measures, with the help of our Members, the legislative working body, on this matter, then we will raise the culture of drinking, we will raise the culture of buying alcoholic beverages. Therefore, I ask you kindly, let us give as soon as possible patient, concrete and constructively accepted those proposals that will be useful for all our country, especially all of us, citizens, from the youngest to the oldest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Kremjar, please, then Mr. Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Advertising is about selling more. Advertising isn't about that, mostly not to be raised, I'm sorry. The trader's interests are to sell more, to earn more, and of course advertising is an instrument of this. These are the facts. There are things where something else is done through advertising, but basically that's the key to advertising. So there are two fundamental interests, one is interest in health protection and the other is interest in earnings; both are legitimate; the state must respect both and create conditions for both. But in the part where the seller's interest is concerned - on purpose I speak only of the sellers - of course the state only regulates how it is done, and nothing else. In a work where health is concerned, however, the country must also take care of this health through the measures it adopts and enforces. Therefore, in this part, I support the proposal of Minister Kebra, or the proposal that we have been given. I myself might be even more restrictive, but I am also aware of what Minister Keber has said that there is always some compromise, and this proposal is actually a compromise. And we're not talking about restrictions, because compared to current legislation, it's not about restrictions, it's about more options, more opportunities than they are now. Restrictions are compared to 100% openness, but it has not been so far, and thank God it has not been so far. So I think that the proposal is basically, which has also been endorsed by the Committee, a proposal that should be accepted and confirmed, and that anything else can lead in a direction that is legitimate, where many want to do so, but in principle, the basic and first dilemma is more on the side of making a profit than on the side of health protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. I would once again touch on the solution in Article 13, which may in fact be the only possible at this point in time, as regards the allocation of the administrative tasks of the Food and Nutrition Office. I would also like to point out that in the draft amendments to the Constitution, one of these provisions is that, in the future, the offices set up by the Government may also be able to carry out these administrative tasks. If we look at transitional provisions, Article 18 states that the Office shall be established no later than 1.1.2003. And if we also look at the financial consequences of this law, we can see that in the coming years this office will actually give at least 45 new jobs. I am sure that if this was the office established by the government, the government would think much more about where to get 45 people from ministries that are already carrying out these tasks by individual ministries. However, it will happen that we will probably be very accelerated within this ministry, because the practice so far is that each ministry wants to employ as much as possible in order to make it stronger, to employ at least 45 people. I think that the content of the amendments proposed in Article 29 should also be taken into account from this point of view. Therefore, I am actually thinking whether it would not make sense at this time to just put the matter down, to see if it is possible to change the constitution to find this solution. Indeed, I am sure that the actual arrangements that are currently in our country that only offices within the ministries can carry out administrative tasks are not the best. And it would be significantly better to regulate the implementation of administrative tasks by the offices set up by the Government, which would have a much more comprehensive view. Therefore, I think it would probably be useful to consider whether this decision could not even be rushed, in particular from this point of view. Actually, we can set up an office. We know that it is necessary to carry out operational tasks as well. But some commitment would probably make sense to the government to tell them how to find these people. In fact, if we give the law an opportunity to set up this office within the Ministry, I am confident that the Ministry will make the most of it, that it will hire these new people and that it will not work very hard where it will get them. However, if this office were to establish a government, the government would look more closely at how to rationalise the financial obligations of this office as well. This I think is a key problem that we should also answer when adopting this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Replica, Mrs Simsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u38	Thank you very much. I fully agree that it is nice to think, what it would be like, and that we have certain visions of certain solutions. But we live here, now, with current legislation, with current possibilities and current power relations. And I'm not among those who would be very much in favour of setting up a wide variety of offices, but I think that's what we need. We also need it if you've read what you're supposed to do. By advertising, we release an ad for alcohol. Whether I personally like it or not is another question. But somehow we've reached an agreement, we've reached consensus. At least to some point. And it says here that this office will change or take care of the eating habits of the population, develop guidelines for healthy diets, propose measures to change the risk of life. I also represent various actions of awareness of what it means to drink alcoholic beverages. If we are aware of only the other social evil of excessive alcohol consumption, the victim of alcohol, of course, is a few people who will work on it, very important and valuable, and I think they should start working as quickly and as thoroughly as possible to balance the fact that we will also be informed about alcoholic beverages, namely wine and beer and not about spirited alcoholic beverages, so that this information is decent, correct, cultural that it will not be in the immediate vicinity of schools and that it will not be on the roads. Here I see some reasonableness of this law. We also argued a lot about the tobacco restriction law and found a solution. We also have experience here, and we see that the positive results are this way. It seems pointless to me that we are now losing ourselves in discussions about what would happen if the government office were waiting for a change of law, if we waited for a change of constitution, but in fact I suggest that we simply decide whether or not we need an office and that we decide somehow by voting. Otherwise, too much will be lost at this point, too much debate, and we will forget about the basic content of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr Rokavec made contact with the replica, then Mr Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. Mrs Simšičeva, look, here's the thing. We already have an office in Article 29. It talks about the Office and also tells us that the Office is monitoring the eating habits of the population, preparing a proposal for a national food policy management programme. I agree, however, that we extend the Office with all the tasks already defined here in the amendment to Article 13. But I'd like to point out the following. Food habits and the problems of this country are not just alcohol consumption. There are still many other things that need to be done. Therefore, I am sure that it is not meaningful and not the best to discuss the issue of alcohol in this law. This is just one segment where it is necessary to improve the eating habits of Slovenes and Slovenians and citizens of this country. But I warned you about that. In fact, as far as the law is concerned, there is a diction to the establishment of an office by the government. However, I have pointed out the problem with the legal transfer - the law entrusts the establishment of this office to a certain ministry - which, as a financial consequence, can entail. What are the usual customs in this government, all these years. In fact, every ministry, whether we want to admit it or not, aims to keep as many employees as possible. That's the way it works. And that's not a good way to function.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u41	Thank you very much. One last debate. Mr. Bernick, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary and colleagues and colleagues! Just for a little while. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u43	I'm sorry to have disturbed you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u44	Thank you. I hope we're all awake now. [[Laugh.]] As far as I know the situation, it seems to me that this office does not belong in the Ministry of Health, because this ministry has many problems, confusion and things that are even closer to a man than this proposed law. Otherwise, I do not know enough of the law on state administration, and I thank the lady in the secretariat for explaining this, but I am not quite sure if the same criteria apply to all offices, because when the government established the anti-corruption office, it put it right in the government and no one raised itself to say it, and that is not possible under our laws, however. The other thing I'd like to mention is alcohol. I think we're pretty close to some sort of Prohibitional thinking. Indeed, we are trying to solve the underlying social problems with the law, and we have heard many times in this congregation that we cannot solve ethical, moral and such problems by law. Although I do not fully agree with this, I would say that we are simply trying to solve a problem that has become serious with us. And it seems to me that we think too little of every human relationship forming somewhere, forming a relationship with alcohol, pornography or whatever you want, for the first time in the family, for the second time in school and for the third time in society. Otherwise, this restriction on advertising may contribute to this, but it will not solve this problem. And it seems to me that we need to be much more committed to putting this thinking through when we talk about school, about education, about the subjects that young people have there. There's one more thing I'd like to mention, and that's to the first point, because I forgot to mention it before. The government here has a long and wide interpretation of what is the limitation of alcohol advertising in other countries of the European Union, but it does not say how the Food and Food Office or this control is regulated in European countries. That's what I'd like to see, how other countries have arranged to see what's most meaningful. I very much doubt that in all countries it is arranged in the way we try to regulate it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I think Mr. Kelemina can? [[...]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u46	Thank you very much. I have one small, modest question for the minister, if you don't mind. If you could tell me who's going to be the director of this office, who's going to be the deputy? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u47	Mr Kelemina, I think this is provocative in the context of the general debate where we have the duty and the right to designate Members and Members to the objectives and principles of the bill before us. I think that, in the context of the short-term procedure, we can conclude the general debate and move on to a second reading, that is to discuss and decide on the individual articles of the bill. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles be discussed and voted together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. The proposed decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members present oppose it. We will vote on the proposal. We're voting. There are 45 of us present. Mr. Gasparini is on his way. I think we're 46 now. If you will, please, next time, everyone we have pressed the "quorum" button. Secondly, we note the presence or vote on the decision, I apologize. We're voting on the proposal. There's 49 of us in the hall. The second vote was not successful either. There's 49 of us in the hall. I'm asking you to cooperate. At 11.29 we will vote on the proposal for a third time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u48	Dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear, dear. I ask you very much to join us, because it is 11.29, this is the time we have set and we will vote for the third time on the proposal for a decision to discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled after the end of the debate and the vote on the amendments and the articles. This proposal will be voted on for the third time. We're voting. There are 51 Members and Members present. It was 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We will hold the debate on the basis of the review of the amendments of 21.3.2002. The two amendments to Article 7 and Article 13 shall be reproduced. However, by the time we open the debate on these articles, we still have some work to do, until then you will have the amendments to the bench. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 1 and the amendment of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I assure you that the amendment has been adopted and the article has been amended. We are moving to debate and decision-making on Article 2 and the amendment of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 50 Members and Members present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. It's 49 votes against 2. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to a debate and decision on Article 3 and the amendment of the Health Committee to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u49	Thank you so much for saying that. So, not really as a debate, but I would like to hear, if possible, arguments why the Health Committee, that I do not mention the whole name, proposes deleting Article 3. In particular, on the Agriculture Committee, the representatives of the Ministry of Health have said this, and I myself know that the health inspectorate is already giving consent to the authorisations issued by administrative units for events outside the premises of business. At the time, we were told on the Committee that this act, which has already been established in practice, is now legally legal. Here I see that the Committee on Health, Labour, Family and Social Policy proposes the deletion of Article 3 of this Act. I'd like to answer that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Rokavec, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u51	Thank you for your word. Since I have not observed any reaction by Mr Minister or Government representatives to the question of Comrade Sok, I think it would probably make sense before deciding on this amendment by the Health Committee to obtain a clear position from the Ministry regarding Article 3. Indeed, it can be a fear of what happens when article 3 is deleted. Or will it be possible to legalise this procedure, which is being carried out by inspection services at this time? But it's a so-called casual sale at events, stands and so forth. That is why I would really like to ask for the Minister's reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Ms Jožica Maučec Zakotnik, Secretary of State, will answer us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u53	Well, this is a procedure that has practically been carried out all the time and has also been written down, i.e. legally defined in old Yugoslav legislation, and then in the 2000 Act, this article has practically failed in the new food health law. And since this process has been ongoing since 2000 and administrative units have also from now on asked for the consent of the Health Inspectorate of the Ministry of Health, i.e. when issuing decisions, and since administrative units do not have a professional staff to assess whether any sales can take place outside the premises, the health inspectorate does so all the time. However, since the interpretation of the law enforcement service was that the health inspectorate did not have the authority to do so, she somehow decided to delete it. However, I would point out that the veterinary administration therefore agrees to decisions of administrative units for food of animal origin and the health inspectorate has also given consent to food of other kinds of origin. So other foods. And that now, in this year or in these two years, where there was no legal basis and because, in fact, local governments still felt the need to ask for consent, they then renamed it an opinion. And that's what they've been doing all the time. So this is a practice that has been and is still going on. And even if this article is now deleted in law, the administrative units will continue to feel the need, because they do not have the expertise and the health inspectorate therefore gives the opinion. This is now an explanation, practical and professional.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc will also help us. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u55	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. In fact, this amendment of the Committee was also partly due to our comment on Article 3. We stress that, according to the system of administration, inspections monitor the implementation of laws, so to speak, they have control over the implementation of laws and other regulations. However, when it comes to administrative activities, giving consent, even for a certain purpose, I will say, verification of compliance with the criteria by law, which is an administrative task. Of course, the Secretary of State correctly said, under the Veterinary Act, that consent is given by the Administration. And so, in fact, in the debate on the Committee, we have also suggested that this could also be done through the administration, because, according to the system applicable to the functioning of the state administration, consent is not an inspection matter, but an inspection is carried out to control the implementation of the law, comes and sees whether this consensus exists. So in a sense, he actually controls himself. From this point of view, it is our point of view. We're not against agreement, we just need to find out that the inspection isn't the right body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Sok, please, then Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u57	If you don't mind, that's all I'd say. So now the health inspectorate has given these consents without a legal basis, if I understand correctly. And it makes sense to me that this consensus or, if you want, some forms of opinion may be left behind. And I can't agree that then the inspection controls itself. The inspection shall always monitor on the ground whether the conditions laid down in the consent are also met. And as far as I know this matter, the health inspection in this agreement has always written the conditions, I don't know, I'm going to give an example of the joy in the village, how this place has to be arranged, where food is being prepared, what equipment must be used, that liquid water must be provided and so on. It is said that these conditions were written in agreement by a health inspection and, through this, also had a record of these events and then also the possibility of checking whether these conditions "de facto" have been met in practice. But it seems very strange to me in this country that we have written in the Veterinary Act as well as in the Health Inspection Act as otherwise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mrs. Bitenc, then Mrs. Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u59	Madam Vice-President, just for the sake of clarification, I would like to point out once again that, under the Veterinary Act, such consent is issued by the administration, not by an inspector, as proposed here. Only in this is there a systemic question from our point of view.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Madam Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u61	We do not have a Ministry of Health of Administration, but the health inspectorate will continue to issue opinions on the conditions on which the local administration will then issue a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Mrs Simšič, then Mr Gasparini. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u63	Thank you very much. In fact, I would just like to resume a very long debate on this article also on the Committee on Labour, Health, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons, where we have been discussing these matters precisely in the light of the Secretariat's warning. Finally, we came up with the proposal to delete the article because we were explained on several sides that these procedures were already going on, even on the basis of the trade law and other provisions of the laws already cited, and such a solution as proposed in this proposal for a solution would in fact mean double administration. Double procedures and double jobs. That's the only reason. Not to complicate it, but the proposal was based on the debate that things should remain the way they are running and that we are not yet launching new procedures. I explain because you asked why the committee so decided, and because it asked me if there was anything to explain, the chairman of the committee who is absent today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr. Gasparini, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u65	Thank you. Mrs Simšičova said what I was going to say. She was the only one who made a mistake. It's not the trade law. It's the hospitality law. And if the Secretary of State had said this about this matter, which is governed by the Hostage Act in this article, it would not have been a mistake.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u67	Thank you for your word. See, we have a trade law, a law that very well defines, already define what the minimum technical and other conditions for selling goods outside the premises outside the shops must be. We have a number of hygiene and sanitary regulations to be met by the food seller, and I believe that the deletion of this Article is fully justified because the health inspector has the task of overseeing the implementation of the laws, regulations and regulations already adopted. This is his task, not giving prior consent. The administrative unit may still be asking the inspectorate for different opinions and so on, but that's the second level thing. Article 3, as proposed in the basic material, further complicates the matter, since every food vendor outside the store requires a series of additional requirements, I would say the conditions, the fulfilment of conditions and the acquisition of consent, which, of course, is not in line with the anti-biocratic programme, is no more expensive, the whole thing complicates and, of course, needlessly carries burdens and somehow prevents that, I would say, directly fostering such various social events as celebrations and the like. I therefore do not think there is any concern for the consumer in any way if this article is deleted, but let us avoid removing this article from the additional burden and complexity of these small sellers, which contribute to our social life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u68	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u69	Thank you so much for saying that. So I have already stressed once that there is no point in introducing additional administrative barriers to ensuring the adequacy of food at such events as has now been mentioned. At the time of the Committee's debate, however, I suggested that in some version this matter should remain only in the sense that the person who decides to sell such a dislocated sale shall inform the inspectorate without giving consent. Rather, it is in practice that sellers who are otherwise authorised to sell food to consumers have all the conditions met. But then they can sell it in the field at various events. What's going on over there? But it's a question of what's going on. And so just so the inspector knows what's going on with him, to let him know that the inspector has the opportunity to come, I suggested that only the obligation to inform the competent inspector should be made. And nothing else. I don't think that's an administrative obstacle to the seller. However, in terms of consumer protection, it is okay. That's what I suggested on the board. But somehow the ear of the ministry may not have listened enough. But I have to say that I wasn't determined enough to write an amendment because I assumed the Ministry would make it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u70	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Committee to Article 3. We're voting. There are 53 Members and Members present. There's 42 votes against 3. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I find the amendment adopted and the article lined up. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 4 and on the two amendments to this Article. Both proposers are Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. Anybody want to talk? Because no, we're moving on to a decision. First, about the amendment under 1. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. He voted 49 against no one. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment under order number two. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present. 47 votes against no one. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We still decide on the whole article. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We are moving on to debate and decision-making on Article 6 and on the three amendments which are mutually exclusive if you look at the footnote. Under 1 is the amendment of the Health Committee. If this is accepted, they shall become an amendment under number 2, of which the Government is proposing, and 3 of which the agricultural committee is proposing is irrelevant. I am fully opening the debate on all three amendments and on the article. Mr. Sculpture, please. Then Mr. Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u71	Dear Vice President! In connection with the amendment which has been tabled, which is substantively linked, Article 6 would reproduce this moment, plus the amendment which reads as follows: "Article 15 deletes the third paragraph." This means that what I said earlier about Article 7 can be done, it is said that we are staying with the solutions that the media law has regarding advertising. Article 6 states that alcoholic beverages referred to in the preceding paragraph may be advertised in newspapers and so on. If we were to delete only hypothetically in Article 7, when this restriction falls, but not here, it means that advertising would be more relaxed and the purpose of the submission of Article 7 would not be the same as I said. Why do I think it makes sense - to explain this amendment once again, to insist? In fact, advertising in the media will open up a space to enforce, so to speak, new brands. Like French wine, Belgian beer, if you like, and so on. It is unlikely that this niche, which this law opens through compromises, would allow for a greater presentation of the wines that Mr Sok spoke about or anyone imagined in Brda or Crassus. Above all, this will allow advertising to be given to those who actually want to get their market share in this area. From this point of view, it seems to me that this sounds paradoxical, even in protecting these brands, which we now have the sense to have a general ban on all. The amendment to Article 15b, where this occurs, will then make sense. But hypothetically so. If you support this amendment, which reproduces, then it makes sense to support the next two. Otherwise, I will withdraw the next two logically because I would do more damage.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u73	Thus, at the first amendment, we meet with this basic idea that no postering, advertising and the like would be allowed along the roads. I believe that the article, in relation to the practice in force so far, greatly relaxes all advertising, both in the media and in the external premises, not to forget this, although it is suggested that it should not be advertised on the roads. Why is it suggested that nothing should be advertised along the roads, not as it is in the basic text, that only large billboards, jumbo posters and so on should be prohibited? Because the limitations of large ones, as has already been said, do not mean limiting advertising and achieving the effects of large ads. Instead of a large one, you can achieve the same effect or even better. And with this, of course, if we prepare the door to a strong supposition, and the advertising industry is very active, strong, resourceful, in some ways aggressive, if we just open the door a little bit, the suppleness will open the door to the narrowness of its legality. Of course, you will tell us why we should not relax advertising in its entirety. Slovenians are hailed in the European Union as a nation of drunkards. Such an impression would be further confirmed on the transit of all tourism through Slovenia. It's okay, you'll say, but maybe our alcohol production will reach more and we'll sell more alcohol. It's a strange logic. If we are not already following the logic of happy or unhappy life, but according to the logic of earnings and the national interest in collecting VAT and excise duties, then I would give you only one thought to legality. If someone drinks 100 ml of pure alcohol every day, such as a litre of wine per day, will surely be a heavy cirotic after one year, a person who is incapable of working will be kept in a hospital person who will become a hospital health care professional for at least a million tolerans and from treatment to at least 500,000 tolars per year. Industry, however, will earn at 365 liters of wine - say it earns 100 tolars per litre - so it will earn 36,000 tolars. So for 36,000 tolls of profit to merchants, we will cause the cost of the state 1.5 million, respected! Not to mention happy and unhappy families, scattered relationships and things like that. Therefore, advertising has the task of increasing the sales of alcohol, or we would not go into advertising. The Jumbo posters, scattered across Slovenia, are worth 500 million today, from printing large posters, to rent large spaces, distribution and the like. 500 million. Do you think the seller doesn't realize that he'll get it back soon enough to sell so much more alcohol? Definitely. He's gonna sell it so much more, or he wouldn't go into such expensive advertising. If he sells more of it, we will also have a state treasury, a health treasury and a disability pension insurance and a drastic burden on everything. And here's the math. For this reason, I propose that we do not completely release all advertising, all advertising, but release it so that Slovenia will not be overwhelmed by this on the main roads and that the youth will no longer get the impression that this is socially acceptable, as I said yesterday, and we will also be able to lose this effect, which is socially acceptable and socially unacceptable. However, I propose that we adopt the amendment of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, which is to say under point 1. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u74	Thank you very much, Dr. Cuckoo. Anyone else want a word before I give my word to the minister? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u75	Thank you very much, President. Nothing needs to be added to what Dr. Knockat said. The only thing that's not hygienic is that I'm going to say we're bragging, I think we're boasting in a negative sense, that we're having so many traffic accidents because of alcohol, and we're having a panoso on the road that advertise alcohol. I invite everyone to actually vote for the amendment made by the Health Committee, under number one, because this will avoid us and I fully agree with Mr Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u76	Thank you very much, colleague Gasparini. My friend Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Well, if I may say so, I'll replicate it to Dr. Sugar. I'll say it's possible he's right about certain things. However, as we have heard a few times today the thought that this law is important, yet it is inconsequential in a number of points, I would add another thought here. The advertising of alcoholic beverages can also be called producer names, which are many times very large donors and sponsors of cultural, sports and other lives. All I want to know is what we are talking about today, whether this law and these articles have been designed in this regard in particular. I'm guessing you don't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u78	Anyone else want a word from the Members and Members before I give my word to the Minister? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Secretary, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u79	Allow me to explain my position or explain why the amendment of the government you have under Article 2 to 6 has taken place. Actually, I have an apology to make. This occurred because there was some advance mistrust that this national assembly could accept the first amendment, and we were afraid that the third amendment would be adopted so that this country would be overwhelmed by a juba cry about the advertising of alcohol. The debate in this House obliges me to say this position and to say, in fact, that this proposal was in fact the most inconsistent in the attempt to restrict advertising. We've limited television advertising, and time is right, but we haven't limited advertising on the road that young people are most exposed to. So allow, although it may be controversial to say as a representative of the government, but I have explained why it has come - as an attempt to rescue has emerged from Amendment 2 personally, and also the formation of the law has always been an issue that the solution proposed by the committee under point 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Can we close the debate on the amendments to Article 6? I find that we can and can go to the vote on the amendments tabled [[We've got four.]] . First, we will proceed to the vote on the amendment under order number one. We're voting. We are in the middle of the vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 6. 48 in attendance, 37 in, 8 in. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. As amendments under number 1 have been adopted, the amendments under number 2 and 3 have become irrelevant. We have an amendment to Article 6. This amendment just splits on the bench. Let me read it. Mr Školč suggests that the third paragraph of Article 15 be deleted. Explanation: "The adoption of this supplement would preserve the applicable solution from the legislation adopted. The release of advertising in the most influential media is difficult to contribute to increased awareness of beer and to a more moderate consumption of alcoholic beverages, which would be the purpose of this law. The adoption of this supplement would also significantly simplify the control provided for in Article 10 of the proposal." We are voting on this proposal, colleague Školč. Please. We're voting on the proposal. There's already been a debate. My colleague Sok, because you were asking during the vote, what about the debate? Let me recall, the debate is held at the beginning of all the amendments tabled to the article. I finished it, and I asked if anyone else wanted a word. Now I can't give it to you if I want to be consistent and you have to understand that. I waited a while. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u81	Mr President, of course, I would procedurally expect you to provide us with material. I still don't have an amendment on the bench right now, and we've already voted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u82	See, according to the Rules of Procedure, you do not need to have the material on the table for such a question, especially if I read the whole text, both the amendment and the explanation. I will, of course, because the National Assembly has not been concluded either, put this to the vote again. But I'll wait long enough for you to have this on your hands. I understand that all colleagues and colleagues have an amendment before them. It is short, it proposes to delete the third paragraph. May I have your attention, please? We will vote on this amendment. Please. We're voting on the amendment. I'm asking for peace in the hall and for the necessary concentration. 49 present. 12 for, 32 for. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 32.]] The amendment didn't get the required majority. We are voting on the whole article. 48 present. 45 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I find that the article has been voted in full. With Article 7, we have four amendments or five amendments to the review and two amendments to each other. They were filed by their colleague, Školč. I'm opening a debate on all the amendments. Please, my fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u83	I withdraw my two because, of course, they don't make sense anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u84	Colleague Scholch withdraws the amendment tabled. So we're staying at the five that are in your reviews on pages 4 and 5. Anybody want a word about them? All five of them. [[Nobody.]] Okay. Then I close the debate and we move on to the vote. We will first vote on the amendment under order number 1 of the Committee on Agriculture. We're voting! I beg for peace in the hall! There are 50 Members and Members present. The vote was 14, 31 against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 31.]] The proposal did not receive support. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. If this is accepted, the amendment under number 3 will be irrelevant. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. There are 48 Members and Members present. The vote was 15, 27 against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 27.]] This amendment has not been supported. Therefore, we can vote on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. There are 47 Members and Members present. The vote was 38, 2 against. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment got the required majority. We are voting on the amendment under order number 4, and if it is adopted, the amendment under number 5 will become irrelevant. We're voting. We vote on Article 4. We're at the 4th Amendment. I said that in the event of this adoption, 5 will become irrelevant. We will once again vote on the amendment under order number 4. We're voting. 52 Members and Members are present. The vote was 24, 20 against. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 20.]] The amendment didn't get the support, so I'm sorry, he could get the support. I'm sorry, this is why the amendment under point 5 has become irrelevant. We vote on Article 7 as a whole. There are 47 Members and Members present. The vote was 40, 4 against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against four.]] The article has been voted on. We have an amendment to Article 8 of the Health Committee. Anybody want to talk about him? I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Health Committee to Article 8. We're voting. There are 46 Members and Members present. The vote was 39, 1 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. Please. 47 present. 41 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text has been adopted. One amendment was also tabled by the Health Committee to Article 9. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Let's vote! Let us vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 9. 50 present. 43 for, no one's against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We can vote on the text as a whole. Let's vote on the whole article! The focus is too small. Once again, we must vote on the text of Article 9 in its entirety. I'm asking for your attention in the hall! We vote on the text of Article 9 in its entirety. Is there a problem? Can we vote again? Please! Let's vote I asked Do you mind if we vote again? [[...]] [[...]] All right, then we'll wait 10 minutes and continue at 12.25.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u85	I'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. I invite colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall, because in the third, we will decide on the text of the article as a whole. It's about Article 9. Please take your seats. I note the presence in the Chamber and at the same time we decide on the text of Article 9. We vote on the text of Article 9 in its entirety. Please. 51 present, 46 for, none against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of Article 9 has been adopted. I would like to remind you that you do not have an amendment tabled by your colleague Terchón to Article 13. This is in front of you in the file you got on the bench. The 22nd was filed. Anybody want a word about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] We will decide on the amendment tabled by our colleague Terchón to Article 13. We're voting. 50 present, 34 to 12. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 12.]] I take it the amendment has received support. We vote on Article 13 as a whole. We vote on Article 13 as a whole. I'm asking for peace and order in the hall. Look, it's half an hour, an hour and a half till today's workday is over. I suggest we try to do as much as possible at this time as possible. More or less, we are all here in the hall, which we are also in the National Assembly. It's up to us how much we do today, whether we have a lot of breaks or not. I suggest we get together for an hour and a half and then we finish our work in peace for today and for this week. In the second, we will decide on the text of Article 13 in its entirety. Please, we're voting. 53 present, 42 for, 5 versus. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that we have adopted the text of the article. We have tabled an amendment to Article 14 of the Health Committee. Anybody want to talk about him? [[He doesn't want to.]] So we can vote on the amendment to Article 14, or on Article 14, as a whole. Please, we're voting. 50 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it that we have accepted the amendment to Article 14. Let's go to Article 16. In Article 16, we have two amendments, namely the Agriculture Committee and the Health Committee. Anybody want to talk about them? [[Nobody.]] We will vote first on the amendment under order number 1. This is the amendment of the Agriculture Committee to Article 16. We're voting. We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 16. 50 present. 20 for, 25 for. [[20 votes in favour.]] [[Against 25.]] The amendment didn't get any support. We are voting on the amendment under order number 2, the Health Committee to Article 16. We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the Health Committee to Article 16. 46 present. 39 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against one.]] I take it this amendment has been adopted. We can now vote on the text of Article 16 as a whole. We're voting. We vote on the text of Article 16 as a whole. 48 present. 43 for, no one's against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text has been adopted. By Article 17, we have tabled an amendment to the Health Committee to delete this Article. Anybody want to talk about him? [[Nobody.]] The proposal to delete the article shall be put to the vote. Please let us vote. We are voting on a proposal from the Health Committee. 50 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. By article 18, we have the amendment of the Health Committee and the amendment of Comrade Terchón, who is not under review and who is on your hands. You want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u86	Under Article 18, the amendment tabled by colleague Davorin Terchón would state some illogicality, which would not have led to support for this amendment. Five minutes ago, at the age of 13, when we asked for the establishment of a committee, we voted "may". So the possibility of marriage is that something is easy and something is not good if someone does not like it. At the same time, in Article 18, we are, as a consequence, re-emerging the possibility that the Food and Nutrition Office as a body within the Ministry of Health may be established and may not be established. An additional diction, or if it is not established, suggests that it may not be, or that it would be quite interesting if it were not. Such a two-pronged text of the legal dictatorships is, of course, inappropriate and I suggest that this amendment is not supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u87	Let me draw attention to the valuable colleagues and colleagues that, in the event of the adoption of the amendment under order A, the amendment of Comrade Terchoon is irrelevant. Comrade Targeton, you have the floor if you wish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u88	Thank you, Mr. President. I wanted to point out what you've already done. In the event that the amendment of the committee is adopted, my amendment is irrelevant. I also agree if the amendment of the Committee has been adopted and is therefore irrelevant to me. However, if the amendment of the committee was not adopted, I insist on the text, because I believe that the tasks of the office, which are enshrined in the law, must be managed before the establishment of the office. It would make absolutely no sense that these tasks, even if they did not have an office, would not be carried out by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u89	Thank you very much. A fellow Rockhead. I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. I will support Mr Tarchoon's amendment if, of course, he comes to the vote. The government should decide, but the tasks of the office are clearly defined in the law. The Government should clearly decide for itself where it is most appropriate to place the competent office.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to talk about these two amendments that have been tabled? Shirtz's colleague? [[No, no, ……]] Please, Secretariat.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. President. On the part of the secretariat, however, I would like to point out that the adoption of Mr Terchoon's amendment to Article 13 has raised the issue in a very ambiguous way, and its explanation is in fact the binding of the current regime on a future regime that is not yet in place and on which we have already given our opinion. Administrative authorities shall establish themselves by law. Therefore, whether or not an office is established by this law, the government does not have the option of acting alone by means of its act to set up a body in its composition. This should be highlighted. It is therefore necessary to look at the whole arrangements under Article 13 and Article 18, where I would like to stress this, that even if the amendment of Mr Tercheon is adopted and then the whole matter becomes unclear and the matter will have to be taken into account after the third reading, the text of Article 18 must also be corrected, as he left the reference to the previous paragraph, which is now deleted. From this point of view, both articles will have to be considered further.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u93	Good. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Then I beg you to move on to the decision. First we have the amendment of the Health Committee, then the amendment of Comrade Tercheon. We vote first on the amendment of the Health Committee. Please, let's vote first on the amendment of the Health Committee. 48 present. 39 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the amendment has been adopted, thus the text of the article and the amendment has become irrelevant. We have a proposal for new paragraphs 18a and 18b. The proposer shall be the Health Committee. Anybody want a word? I note that no and that we can vote on the proposal for new paragraphs 18a and 18b. Let's vote! Let us vote on the proposal for new paragraphs 18a and 18b. Are there problems? Let's vote! Let us vote on the amendment for the new paragraphs 18a and 18b. 46 present. 36 for, 2 for. [[36 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that we have adopted the new paragraphs 18a and 18b. We must decide on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. Anyone want a word about articles with which no amendments were tabled? I guess not. We are moving on to a decision on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? We vote on articles to which no amendments have been tabled. 47 present, 41 for, none against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. Does anyone have any other suggestions? [[Nobody.]] We'll decide on the title of the law. Please. We decide on the title of the law. 48 present, 39 to, 2 to. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] I note that we have adopted the title of the law and that we can move on to the third reading of the bill. Would qualified candidates like to table amendments? She's a colleague of Simsich's.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The amendment is in preparation or I have already prepared it, and an amendment is being prepared in conjunction with the amendment adopted, to which the secretariat has also been alerted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u95	Okay, then we'll be a fellow Pohorec, too? [[...]] Okay, then I suggest we stop this point so that we can allow qualified applicants to table amendments. If we did so relatively quickly, we could soon make that decision. But for now, I'm breaking up with this point. I suggest we return to the 4th item of the agenda. Please note that there will be no misunderstandings. Order! It's hard to work if there's too much noise. We're moving to SUPPORT 4. Agenda items, that's a defensive proposal for a law on inland navigation. On the basis of the Secretariat's conclusion on legislation and legal matters that the adopted amendments violated the mutual conformity of the provisions of the law, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted the harmonisation amendment which you received on the bench today. I'm asking, does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[Not yet.]] Would you like to speak to a representative of the mother's working body? I guess not. I would like to point out that there is no discussion on the content of the harmonisation amendment, but there is room for explanation of vote. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 30. We're voting. We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 30. Please, if your colleagues will sit in their seats, because we are enough in the hall, but we are not all in our seats. We will once again vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 30. May I have your attention in the hall, please? We vote on the harmonisation amendment to Article 30. 48 present. 40 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Therefore, the National Assembly may vote on the proposal in its entirety. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal as a whole. 49 present. 42 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the State Assembly has fully adopted the law on inland navigation. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. At the end of the day, that is to say a bill on amendments to the Veterinary Act, on a rapid basis. The bill was tabled by our fellow Member Rokavec for consideration and I ask him if he wants a word. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u96	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government. The substance of the proposed amendments to the Veterinary Act was mainly modified by two amendments. The first, in particular the basic amendment, allowing the so-called pet veterinarian to issue a health certificate for the issue of the veterinary certificate referred to in Article 1 so-called pet veterinarian to be able to issue a health certificate, since it is better known of the animal health status as a concessionary who only occasionally comes to the farm. According to the veterinary regulation, animals in Slovenia are examined for certain diseases such as barcellosis, leptosperosis, TB, leukosis and so on. This surveillance shall be carried out under the programme of the veterinary administration. If a positive animal appears anywhere on any of this disease, the traffic in milk and animals shall be stopped immediately. Because of this, the pet veterinarian is a significantly better guarantee that the veterinary certificate will actually reflect the animal’s health. Therefore, it does not really make sense to go to a bureaucratic war and to write a veterinary certificate without real knowledge of the animal’s or herd’s health. In fact, with the solution proposed, all veterinarians or veterinary organisations exercising public powers could issue health certificates or veterinary certificates for the marketing of animals. This is certainly a much more rational solution, and it also allows for greater competitiveness and, above all, continues to establish the necessary supervision and transparency of the competent veterinary authorities. The proposed text of the law also contains proposals for solutions in Articles 2, 3, 4, which I may not explain so much, in particular from the point of view of the Secretariat's comments on legislation. But I think it makes sense for me to say a few words. First of all, by actually establishing a complete register in Slovenia, at least gradually, it is said that the cattle, as soon as possible, could be rationalised procedures and introduced a passport as the simplest document in force in the comparable Member States of the European Union. However, since the register of bovine animals has not yet been fully established for bovine animals and the Secretariat's comments that the introduction of the proposed solutions in Articles 2, 3 and 4 at this time is likely to be premature, I would suggest that the actual assembly, if it rejects the proposal for a decision of the parent committee, would allow for discussion and further decision at least in Article 1 of the solution that we believe is most important for the problems on the ground, that, after the conclusion of the decision in the law, an additional decision would also require the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to establish all the necessary activities that will allow the establishment of a complete and certified register of animals, at least for bovine animals, as from 1.1.2003. In addition, I would like to point out that I agree with the Secretariat's conclusion on legislation and legal matters, and that is why the three amendments I have tabled in the procedure are also three. I propose to the National Assembly that, after discussion, it actually rejects the proposal of the Home Committee and allows at least a reasonable amendment to the provisions of Article 4 of the Basic Law, which, of course, reflects a substantial misunderstanding since the completion of the procedure for the adoption of the Veterinary Code, provides that a provision may also be made for the issuing of a veterinary certificate by a pet veterinarian. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u97	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. Please, all colleagues, if they are able to go to their seats or talks outside the debate hall because they are in the way of work. The proposal for a law was addressed by the Committee on Agriculture. He wants the chairman of the agriculture committee? Comrade Juban, will you perform? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u98	Thank you very much. The Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food discussed this law and supported the rapid procedure first. On the basis of his content, he then voted on the appropriateness of the law and rejected, by six votes to five, the content of the law or the law as such and finally found that the law was not a suitable basis for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u99	This was therefore the position of the Agriculture Committee. Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a representative of the government? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and honourable Members! The proposal for a law is contrary to the existing veterinary law on the dilemma or proposal, or the pet veterinarian may also issue a medical certificate. We are therefore in breach of the existing law and also of the existing public service network, where concessionaires are named and also have a specific area of their own. On this basis they may issue veterinary certificates and also monitor infectious diseases in the area. The substance of this veterinary certificate is therefore also that it provides for a certificate of the condition of infectious diseases in the area and also of the relevant health status of that animal. In this case, there is therefore a discrepancy between the pet veterinarian covering that area and it may be outside the area provided for by the concession contract and therefore does not have a proper view of the situation of infectious diseases in the area for which the veterinary certificate is issued. This is where we come into disharmony, which could undermine the existing network of this public service or concession contract with the VURS. Of course, this is also contrary to the European guidelines that say that this public person cannot be in a material or different relationship with the bearer. This mode of change is therefore unacceptable from the point of view of existing legislation and existing networks. With regard to the possibility of replacing medical certificates with passports, the fact is that the existing passport veterinary law does not provide for, is laid down in the Animal Labelling Regulation and thus the passport is reintroductioned, and then becomes inconsistent with the implementation of checks or also with the implementation of veterinary certificates. Thus, this is in conflict, since the passport records or controls the tracing of animals from birth to death, and the medical certificate provides information on animal health or the presence of infectious diseases in a given territory. Of course, there is also a problem in the possibility that veterinarians may also issue medical certificates for international transport, because in this case VURS is designated as a public service, where it is also stipulated that veterinarians must have appropriate practice, both in the legal field and in the professional field, thus also ensuring the international acceptability of these certificates. Therefore, the proposed amendment is contrary to existing legislation and also to the guidelines. The veterinary system is being built and by the time it enters the European Union a system of certificates will also be built that will allow the breeder to confirm that his breeding is free from infectious diseases. In line with the introduction of a traceability system, this will therefore be one homogeneous system that will allow tracking, which will allow control of infectious diseases and once Slovenia joins the European Union, it is also possible to terminate veterinary certificates in internal traffic and continue to be in force as internationally recognised, this is said in the transport of animals between countries. This would eliminate veterinary certificates and, of course, leave a passport. On the basis of these findings, the state or position of the Government is that the proposed changes constitute a breakdown of the existing system and are therefore not in accordance with the legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The secretariat has now asked for the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would only point out what is now, but in the last sentence, the government has already warned that we are interfering with the amendment of Article 4 to the concept of the whole law. This concept will then have to be driven through the entire marriage. Article 52 shall specify the activities of the veterinary administration and of the other entities covered by this Article. In Article 52, this competence is, of course, clearly defined. But with this change comes the collapse of this concept. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u103	Thank you for that warning. Do they want a word on the proposal for a bill from the parliamentary group? They want to. Comrade Sok raised his hand first. Please, Comrade Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say and conclude in the introduction that I am very sorry that the Agriculture Committee, with a narrow majority, has rejected this bill and that the government also opposes this proposal. Our Group estimates that the proposal tabled by Member Rokavec is well-intentioned and is for the benefit of our livestock farmers, our farmers, who also want a more simplified procedure in this area. Now that Member Rokavec has somehow withdrawn paragraphs 2, 3 and 4 of this Article, only Article 1 remains in this proposal, the issue of veterinary certificates, as currently referred to in our Veterinary Act, shall be claimed. What is the essence of the veterinary certificate? The Secretary of State has already mentioned something, and I'd like to add it here. In fact, this veterinary certificate has three functions. Firstly, it means that, through this veterinary certificate, an animal is identified in traffic. The number normally carried by an animal in the ear is also included on this document, on the veterinary certificate, so that this animal can always be identified in traffic. The second purpose of the veterinary certificate confirmed that there is no infectious disease in the place from which the animal originates, which could also be transferred by transport to another area. And third, which has not been mentioned, is, of course, that a certain fee is paid for this veterinary certificate, or that the main burden of this tax is, in the present solution, transferred to the national budget or even paid by the country in the budget for the issue of these veterinary certificates. At times it was reversed, funds were collected in a special fund through the issuance of these veterinary certificates and certain veterinary activities were then paid from this fund. In the first place, it was paid from this fund by the Veterinary Health Service, and partly or in whole, as in any period of time, by the programme of prevention carried out by veterinarians in the field. On this proposal that the issue of a veterinary certificate should not be tied territorially, but functionally, according to the treating veterinarian, there was a lot of speech at the time of the adoption of the veterinary law last year, I think that in April or March the law was adopted in this national assembly. I must conclude that, at that time in the second reading, such a proposal as is now proposed by my colleague Rokavec was even adopted and then in the third reading, I do not know exactly why he was returned to such a form as it is today. How does this matter take place in practice? A farmer has the right to choose a pet veterinarian. This provides him with all the services, all the curating, all the treatment, but he cannot issue him a veterinary certificate. This means, of course, that for each sale of animals from his own holding he must call the veterinarian who resides in the area where the breeder resides, the exclusive right to write or issue veterinary certificates. Of course, there are many complications in the field. And if the government and the great coalition with that in the coalition contract wrote down rule that you would build or build on an anti-birocratic programme, if you meant it seriously, then in such proposals as this, peaceful souls could reduce this excessive bureaucracy and actually agree that the veterinarian who knows the best and even the animals in the barn can also issue a veterinary certificate. This would save a lot on costs, but would give breeders the opportunity to choose themselves consistently and definitively the veterinarian they want to see in their own backyard and who conducts all the procedures concerning the rearing of their animals. The state would not have lost any records through this, the state would not have lost any rights, would not have been harmed through this for the tax collected. Practically nothing would have changed, only in the final stage could the procedure be cheap and the breeders would have saved a number of hours of waiting at home for the veterinarian to come to the house and give them this paper. If a veterinary certificate could be given to them by a treating veterinarian, then of course you could do it to them in your office, but not in our country that we claim that an animal should see and then write a veterinary certificate. These are the solutions that - I agree with those who claim - Europe does not know. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u105	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. Comrade Sušnik has the floor on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Then any of the other members of the group would like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. President. A respected choir! Members of the Social Democratic Party support the adoption of a bill amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, which is modest, but also a welcome attempt to regulate or correct unsustainable conditions in Slovenian livestock and consequently in our agriculture. There is no doubt, however, that the situation in Slovenian agriculture is extremely difficult and is deteriorating. The situation of livestock farming as an essential factor in our agriculture is further significantly exacerbated by the overly harsh, non-lifely and completely uncomparable veterinary and sanitary regulations, the inadequately solved problems of disposal, processing and destruction of slaughterhouse waste in connection with the emergence of BSE. Incomparable and completely unacceptable, for example, is the cost of treatment of slaughterhouse waste, which has risen to an incredible 60 tolar per kilogram. The abnormal and uncomparably high prices of veterinary fees, complicated, expensive and excessively complex are the introduction of a traceability system. It is undeniable that the situation in agriculture and the attitude of the government and the ruling coalition towards agriculture are closely linked to rural development. However, the current agricultural policy is not adapted to the agricultural situation and is in its content in total contravention of the objectives of agricultural policy in Slovenia, which must follow and stem from the ecological and social foundations and the basis to which it is necessary to follow. The following facts have clearly been overlooked in the implementation and formulation of agricultural policy, particularly livestock development policies, as areas in which the veterinary powers have been significantly enriched. The first of these is the fragmented structure of agricultural land, since there is an average of 5.3 hectares of agricultural land in the use of family farms. Another fact is that the average family farm breeds only 5.7 large livestock heads, that 2/3 family farms or more than 56,000 farms line less than 5 large livestock heads. More than half of family farms or more than 43,000 family farms have two or less large livestock heads. Only a good 5% or more of 4,500 family farms have more than 20 heads of cattle. As a result of this fact and the problems encountered in this segment, there are currently more than 45,000 hectares or more than 5% of all agricultural land in growth and that cultivation is a logical consequence of abandonment and thus growing farming. As a result, there is an increasing trend towards the emptying of certain areas, in particular areas with limited farming opportunities. Amazing and thoughtful is the fact that each year it leaves farming approx. 3,000 family farms and this worrying trend has been present for more than 10 years. The government policy, which is manifested by the adoption of agricultural legislation in the National Assembly, has, unfortunately, probably overlooked the existing situation consciously. The additional situation is exacerbated by reckless sub-legislative acts produced over and over again by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, which are generally not adapted to small farmers and breeders representing the majority of agricultural operators. Over-administrative administration and standardisation, continued increase in agricultural bureaucracy, excessive or non-living veterinary and sanitary regulations, lobbying and consequently the dominant influence of the processing industry further aggravate the conditions of farming and consequently cause further deterioration of small farmers and small farms. Such a policy raises a serious question of at least 60,000 small Slovenian agricultural holdings. Without small and medium-sized farms that are currently the most threatened and insufferable, it is impossible to stop the trend of rural growth and festivities. In this way and through such procedures it is also impossible to maintain the settlement of the Slovenian countryside and the appearance of the cultural landscape. For all the reasons mentioned in the Socialist Party's Group of Members, we support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act and oppose the decision of the committee which did not provide the legislative proposal with the necessary support. We hope and believe that the adoption of this law in the National Assembly will be sufficient and that there will be some kind of signal to the government and especially to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food to change agricultural policy immediately and radically and thus the attitude towards rural development. We fully support those objectives and principles of the law, which try to change non-life and, to put it mildly, the strange provisions of the Veterinary Act adopted last April, which prevent the veterinarian from issuing a veterinary certificate and a certificate for products. This would interrupt the practice of administrative certification of veterinary certificates which does not have a basis in the actual knowledge of animal and herd health as a whole. We agree and support the necessity of a change justifying the replacement of a veterinary certificate with a passport to accompany appropriately marked animals from birth to slaughter and elimination. There is absolutely no valid and reasoned reason why this model, which is completely normal, good and sufficient for our neighbouring EU countries, which are already members of the EU, should not satisfy our needs. Once again, we stress that the adoption of this law would be an extremely important act of this assembly, even if only at a symbolic level, and as a clear signal that the procedure is urgently needed for deregulation in the field of agriculture. And that. The fact that the legislative proposal comes from a number of coalition members gives hope that the knowledge that agricultural policy is necessary and must be acted upon immediately is ripe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Comrade Sušnik. I don't think any of the members of this group want a word. Comrade Juban, do you want to do this on your own? I also give you my word because you're the first and so far undeclared. Please, Comrade Juban, you have the floor. I invite other colleagues and colleagues to the hall because we will soon vote, given that there is no great interest in the debate. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to add something to all this in this sense that if we are to end up qualified to vote on the fate of this law, we must also follow what I am about to say. I agree with all those who claim that the veterinary has lost its compass in its powers and that it charges its services to the state and to the breeders excessively and that it employs its people in a way that really gives birth to new bureaucracy. But in itself, let's say, the procedure for adopting the feed law, where we had difficulty preventing a veterinarian from standing in each bag from feeding, even Comrade Sok voted in favour of this solution. Which means that what he claims is not entirely true and acts one way or another. The solution of colleague Rokavac - let's say it is correct - is a matter of warning from the government and the secretariat. The basic problem of the visit of a special veterinarian and the excessive charging of health certificates is correct. However, in the meantime, a colleague of Rokavec introduced a new text, which introduced a health certificate and a travel order, which are two documents, different documents, but both issues of the veterinarian; this means that the tours and bureaucracy are the same. And of course they are - maybe the matter is a little different, but about that, my colleagues can then fix me. And, of course, then filed supplements after a meeting of the Committee on Agriculture where he drew three articles. And it brings new content to the law. Something else happened in the middle. For the first time, the Ministry of Veterinary Administration informed us that - please correct me if it is not true because I would not like to mislead this respected council - already 80 to 90% of concessions are already carried out by domestic veterinarians. If that's true or not, please fix it. Which means that only from the point of view of the infringement of this law is 10 to 20% of the services provided by additional domestic veterinarians. At the same time - the information is not verified again - but that Minister Booth has agreed with the veterinary administration to reduce these services by 40% - charging these services, these certificates. And here, of course, it is true that the service was set very high. The Chambers provided a system that also shaped prices and that services were charged excessively expensive and that this law may also have helped a colleague of Rokavac, who was barely in the process, to change the price list and to lower the services. All of this was before us also on the Committee on Agriculture, when we considered the proposal for a law and, of course, adopted the position as it was. In order not to introduce anything new with a solution, it is only 10% or 20% of the issue of documents issued by the veterinarian, and that solutions should be sought elsewhere and that the proposal of the law may cause confusion or disharmony. If that's not true, you can still convince me because I hope you're here publicly to admit that right now I don't know what to do. First of all, I am burdened by what some colleagues have rightly found that the veterinarian is doing excessively. Second, of course, we are heating up our lives with these procedures of some breeders, but if the law does not bring new and quality solutions, then it is a matter of the purpose of the law. And probably any additional information on these exposed dilemmas by the government, perhaps even at the end of the secretariat, may at least change my position and attitude towards this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u109	Thank you very much. A colleague of mags. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u110	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So the proposed law, which has been tabled by a respected colleague from our parliamentary group, colleague Franci Rokavec, has been from the very moment he tabled it and until now - I think - if we also take the amendments into account, the third content has already been in place. I would not like to discuss the whole content here right now, but I would like to limit myself exclusively to what my colleague Franci Rokavec left in his proposal. This is the relationship with the pet veterinarian and the veterinarian who has the concession. I would like in particular to define myself on this. Of course, I cannot help but say that what some colleagues, when you engage in a debate and find out some facts, you find them very flat-rate. When you say, "The vet lost the compass," and then forward, and then nothing more. Tell me where, where, how she lost the compass. If we had this legislation before, we had very similar legislation in the former Yugoslavia, but we simply did not implement it - we did not implement it to that extent because we had a closed market. And if that's what you want now, the one that we have written some things, some legal regulations, and then we don't do it, that we have a law, that we can show it to someone, that we don't do it, then it's over. We, if we want to export to the countries of the European Union, also in the countries of the former Yugoslavia - last week we have heard that the markets of neighbouring Croatia, then Bosnia, Montenegro and Serbia want exactly the same regulation as the countries of the European Union. And then all that's left is the home market. And then: who will defend in this national assembly and in the government that it can be different for our consumers. We don't need control! So that's how much for this flatline. And also about the fact that the vet is responsible for everything. I allow the possibility that I may be a bit biased as a veterinarian, because perhaps I am a little more familiar with this matter. I'll allow that. But so that it's entirely all the fault of agriculture, it's just the vet, and I'm not buying it. I'm not going to agree to that. So, on the dilemma that I mentioned in the introduction, regarding the free choice of veterinarians to write health certificates. Our country, this national assembly and the government have prescribed that concessional activity is the writing of health certificates by which the country guarantees the manufacturer and consumer that the animal that goes to the slaughterhouse and ends up as a food of animal origin is from where it comes from that all the investigations made by that country are all preventive vaccinations and preventive investigations and therefore the State has concluded a contract with a specific veterinarian. This veterinarian must do so on behalf of this country. That's not: either you could or you wouldn't. That's what he has to do! This has been prescribed by the State in terms of the protection of foodstuffs of animal origin and consumption. And now, if we agree to this solution proposed by Comrade Rokavec and some of your colleagues support it, then we will be in a situation where someone can do this, not necessarily, but can. And that's not a concession anymore. And then the colleagues in the field will choose, say, "I'll work, I'll go to the health certificate to write to the one who has 50 heads of cattle, because there's a higher frequency here. It's very difficult to get to him, especially in wintertime, but someone else should go." This is said: I say that this must be a concession activity and a person must be in charge of working on behalf of this country. I'll give you a simple example. Look, we all have cars and we drive them to the service. But when we go to a technical checkup with this car, we can't get that repairman who checks our car to sign that this car is technically operational. [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] But that's what that service that's authorized of the state does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u111	Please. Time's up. That's how it is now. First of all, I must point out that the subject of the discussion is spreading through a proposal contained in the law and that I will specifically restrict the debate if I so judge. Secondly, several colleagues have now been reported for discussions and replicas. Everything is limited to five minutes. First, Comrade Rokavec, then has a replica of Comrade Juban, then Comrade Sušnik. Replica, probably. Please, let's go in order. First he's a colleague of Rokavec, then he's a colleague of Juban's. Please. [[A voice from behind.]] A debate? Then, Comrade Juban, you have a replica. Please. But the replicas should be short and limited to the substance, as set out in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u112	Thank you very much. I'll do my best, Mr. President. At the time of the occurrence of various diseases, where we are not at all clear what is going on - BSE, Kreuzfeld-Jakob and so on - it is clear that every animal must have a document that goes to the market or moves under certain conditions and that it is not at all dispute who should issue this document. I don't disagree with that. Secondly, I would like to say that I also agree that veterinary measures such as these and other measures will not save or bury the industry, but contribute to some mood and costs that are generated and upgraded by small numbers. I've been saying all along, let's try to clear up the dilemma, whether this solution is a result or not. This time it's all about the concession and who. So, my view is that the document must exist, and if we find that document must be accompanied by an animal and issued as a concession, and of course that it is given to the veterinarian. But now the dilemma has arisen because we have found that 90% of these documents are already issued by domestic veterinarians and that those 10% are less questionable and that it is not good for any of them to have political capital - or, I don't know, anything like that - to find out if this law is needed or not needed, only for the benefit of what colleagues from the point of view or from sent groups have represented. Of course, this can be turned around in one way or another and many things can be done about it. It is also true that, as colleague Kramberger found out, this is the third text of the law, as I myself spoke. We had the first one that was very close to me, and then it changed, and now we have amendments that completely change it. This means that there is still a reason to consider whether a marriage is necessary or even a solution. In my opinion now, after all, if this is true, what we find, including the pricelist that has changed, which we have not yet said is a new situation and that maybe the law is not needed, but a new order is needed, which must be established by the government, the ministry and the veterinary administration in the area we are talking about. I have listed some reasons for losing the compass, but I will add another one, which may be banal and does not belong in Parliament - vaccination of dogs costs 5,700 tolars in the veterinarian's yard; if it goes to a neighbor, 3,000 is present. Is that a loss of compass or not? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u113	I'm warning you on the subject. Now we have two debates, colleague Rokavac and colleague Sušnik. Did anyone want a replica? Excuse me? [[No, no, ……]] A fellow Rockhead.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u114	Thank you for your word. Perhaps you could answer some of the questions that have been discussed. In fact, the first thing is, this dilemma that a veterinary certification veterinarian may not be in economic relation to the holder of an animal. It was found that in Slovenia between 80% and 90% of already veterinarians are economically related to the holder of animals. So it's a very, very large majority. Of course, between 10% and 20% are those who are not economically connected. I wonder why it is then necessary to prevent this from happening in those areas where this economic link is not yet possible. The argument on the committee was that the only thing with these 10% to 20% could still be convincing for the European Union when we put it through Shivanka's ear. I'm sure that's not the case. In fact, the solution we introduced in the Veteran Act last year was pure to a unique person. There is no such solution in the European Union. They have so-called local or national veterinarians who write health certificates but health certificates only in terms of international transport. In internal traffic - and here I would reply to Mr Juban - my proposal for a solution to the passport defines a passport issued by an animal breeder from an identification and registration service as a credible document accompanying an animal in internal traffic from birth to elimination. It is, in fact, a practice in the European Union. Then I realized that this register in our country has not yet been fully established in cattle. That is why, according to the decisions of the committee then, this reaction followed that the three articles should be deleted because if things have not matured so much, then it is probably a pity to get ahead of themselves. But I am convinced that the issue of issuing a veterinary certificate for the transport of animals in inland traffic - so-called home veterinarian - is that we do not allow this - to do all kinds of damage. Firstly, I am sure that, needlessly, at least in that area, we are going over-administrative. Secondly, that the pet veterinarian is aware of a significantly better animal health condition than that of the concessionaire because he is monitoring the animal’s health. And in 80% to 90%, as we have found, this is also the case in Slovenia. In addition, there are costs. Costs on the part of the operation of this service, on the part of veterinary organisations and costs incurred by the holder of the animal. In fact, the animal - healthed veterinarian could also write a veterinary certificate at the time of his tour, look at the animal. But, of course, he has to go his own way. And the breeder also has to wait specifically for the veterinarian of the concessionaire to come home, of course, in addition to what he might have had an hour ago in his barn. I think we also need to be aware of these problems in these areas. And I am sure, given what the legislative secretariat has also pointed out, that it is indeed possible to remedy, of course, by partially correcting the resolution in Article 52, which speaks of the competence of the VURS, also appropriately. Correct, of course, by correcting this illogicality, whatever has been stated. This, however, allows for a proposal; it is also a proposal for a fast-track law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u115	Thank you. Replica at your show, wants a colleague mag. Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u116	Thank you, Mr. President. I'd like to object to a colleague of France Rokavac. Look when my buddy Rokavec is talking about the economic connection. Indeed, 80% of the concerters are domestic veterinarians at the same time. But they have contracts. It's a contract; it's a contract with this country. That's the point. Not that it is - but that we agree to an argument that the pet veterinarian will come, but that he will write a health certificate and say hello at the same time. Yes, how can it be said that an animal will be sick on a farm or farm when a medical certificate is needed? That's ridiculous. That's an argument. As far as the costs are concerned. A health certificate shall be charged a fee. You pay the fee either to the concessionaire or to that pet veterinarian. My colleague, Juban, mentioned earlier that Booth had agreed with the veterinary authorities to reduce the fees. Minister Booth doesn't have anything to do with the veterinary board to cut charges because he signs them. And according to the Ministry of Finance, these things are regulated. As for internal traffic, the so-called passport, as said by Comrade Rokavec, is this document accompanying animals. This can only be a document which is a document concerning the identification of animals. I'll give you an example from last week when we were in England. Some of your colleagues were with you, and you had a chance to hear when we visited the last farm where there was a case of foot-and-mouth disease. There were those two owners, the national veterinarian was present, very involuntary over the work of the veterinary service. They were speaking the other way around, as we now hear here. They said: you have no control, you don't know what happens between farms, how animals travel, you react too late. And we have this just as differently arranged as they have it there. It is accompanied by a medical certificate, i.e. a passport of animals and a veterinarian as an expert, which is likely to be found to be a veterinarian if he has completed a six-year study, that he has this knowledge that at least a few of these infectious diseases will be able to identify that there and when it is not necessary. Look, in England they barely found a foot-and-mouth in the slaughterhouse when they were already carrying these trucks, and the animals were transported from one farm to another, and into the slaughterhouse, and only then did they find that they had a foot-and-mouth disease. This spread the disease across the country and killed a million sheep, 300,000 cattle, about 300,000 pigs and goats. That's the data. Now imagine this happening to us, with this stock of 200,000 cows we have, and I don't know how many pigs. With one such irregularity, we can easily bury all livestock. Of course, this job costs something. And we can talk about this - how much these fees and these services are. But we can't agree that we won't have control, colleagues. That's what this is about, not the other one. Well, that's a fact from England. My friend Barovic was, my friend, and he's not here right now, and some of you have been, and you can confirm that, because you've heard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u117	We have replicas, if I understand correctly. First my friend Rokavec, then my friend Petan. A colleague of Sušnik and colleague Barovic are waiting for the performance.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u118	Thank you for your word. I cannot agree with this statement by my colleague Kramberger. Indeed, the fact is that if a pet veterinarian is allowed to issue a veterinary certificate, then it is necessary to know clearly that this also increases competitiveness in this veterinary segment. That's a fact. And second of all, the issue of a passport. Colleague Kramberger, the thing is - you can only drive to neighbouring Austria and see what the transport regime is like for animals in inland traffic. With a passport, that's all. The breeder shall inform the competent registrar and that organisation, because he is going to the slaughterhouse when an animal intends to travel. Veterinary inspector, the inspection is monitoring this surveillance and animal trafficking. This is the process that Slovenia should probably follow if we are to compare ourselves with the countries which have procedures in the European Union. I think that's an essential problem that we don't understand in some way. Second. However, if we go straight to the letter as understood in the European Union as a veterinary certificate, it is understood to take blood and samples on the site. We do not have a veterinary certificate for this procedure, but it is just a paper written and in fact what it means for international transport in the European Union is not being carried out. That's why I think we have on both segments - it says on the segment that issues the veterinary certificate, and also on the procedures of the veterinary certificate - to the unique
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u120	Thank you for your word. I'm replicating my colleague Kramberger. First of all, I would like to say only two, three general sentences, that I think that by what is now happening with agricultural legislation, we have exceeded all normal limits. I agree that, even after the recent outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease and even earlier perhaps mad cows, there must be a record to be set up, there is no dilemma and I certainly support it. However, when administrative matters go beyond all normal borders, there is probably something to be said. And also because of such an administration, which we are now introducing with every agricultural law, we are introducing new inspectors, new organisations that need to control, or new papers that need to be, in addition to what is most important, new taxes. Today I do not accept the claim that every chicken on the farm has to look at the veterinarian somewhere and give her another injection along with it and charge well. You know, if you go to the countryside today, when people tell you all this, then you find out that there's something out there that we've skipped something and that someone's overreacting with these measures so that some service can make good money. And, gentlemen, those of you who think you're going to build this system for 60,000 farms will only have 1,000 more farms in a few years. And if you think that this 1,000 farms can survive, this administration, these new institutions, these new inspectorates, new papers, new checks, all this, then you've made a big mistake, then you're digging your own pit. And in this context, I support Mr Rokavac's proposal, and I do not know him in detail, but I am sure that he will simplify at least one of the details, and that is why I support him. And when you were just talking about England that they only found out about it in the slaughterhouses, I could ask you if you didn't have any case with us, but you just kept your eyes closed until the problem broke out. If they had already printed sick animals in England, then don't tell me that there's ever been a suspicion in the field before, but there's probably something else in the middle of what's the greater interest. After all, that's good. I'd just like to mention this bone meal. Everyone knew that if we put in place a process of processing at a lower temperature, something would be wrong, everyone would remain silent. To conclude, I support the opinion that one document is accompanied by an animal from beginning to end. But the fact that we're making up new paper at every stage has led to a total administration in this area, and I think that's the area where we shouldn't be doing it. We should not do this, and sooner or later you will have to imagine for yourself what measures we have taken here, we know who proposed them, and we will have to simplify them. And Mr Rokavac's proposal goes a little in this direction. [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u121	There's too much noise in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u122	I do not say that Mr Rokavac's proposal is the best and ideal, probably far from it, it was probably not his intention, but by noting the impossible state of administration in this area, he has achieved his purpose. In this context, I will also support this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u123	Comrade Kramberger, you have a chance to replicate. You'll be followed by a fellow Sušnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u124	Thank you, Mr. President. Me and my colleague Rokavec - I want to object to him - we have devoted no time to this topic when we were talking here with the minister, even with some of the competent ones. Well, then, my fellow Rocksmith insists on his own. But on this occasion, I will also say that we cannot solve our own backyard problem and apply it to the whole country. Lithium is divided into two concession areas and one colleague, a vet, is healthy with you and the other has a concession to write health certificates and now this is the whole problem and this is a problem for the whole country. This is how I just don't land. What my colleague Petan was talking about. Tell me, what are these arguments? What are the new documents? The health certificate is valid from Maria Teresa. It was always written by vets. It was previously written in administrative units under the supervision of veterinary inspectors. You can't just talk like that, pal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u125	I suggest that we calm this discussion down a little, so that, for the first time, we focus only on the law. Secondly, we are trying to reach a vote before today's end. But I've got a lot of applications. For replicas first. Comrade Sok, colleague Rokavec, colleague Jerovšek. I suggest they're short replicas and focus on the point. Comrade Sok first. But I'm asking for short replicas so that the National Assembly can follow this discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u126	Thank you very much. It seems to me that there is no harm in discussing this matter for a little while. After all, we have spent three days for the congregations, for a three - day rule of procedure. This is a very important matter. It's not everyone's business, but it's our farmers' business. And there are some things that some groups are concerned about, and that's probably what farmers are worried about. He liked to correct Mr Rokavac in one statement when he said that it was necessary to take blood from animals and determine the health status and so on, in the issue of a veterinary certificate. So, of course, this case applies when it comes to exports of animals abroad. At that time it is also done and this is required, this abroad requires, detailed checks and then listed in that certificate all the export data. However, when it comes to internal traffic, of course it is a little different, so there would be no confusion. The essence of this problem, which we are discussing today and which Mr Rokavec would like to solve with this proposal, is in fact very simple. So, all those veterinarians who perform the veterinary service today - or most of them - already have concessions for the issue of veterinary certificates. The only question is whether a veterinarian who - for example - has the right to do this in Lower Cough, while also healthy animals in Upper Cough, can issue this in both Coughs because they belong in different municipalities. That's all there is to it. And secondly, the question is whether it is even important that - for example - highly skilled people drive on the ground, on farms and issue veterinary certificates. If I were in the government, of course, I'd use it for more serious things, not to drive around the field and write some papers. When, however, a veterinarian who heals animals and knows the situation on the ground can do so in his office. We have indeed had since the time of Mary Teresa forward, so-called 'fih business', and we have betrayed him to her administrative units, but at local offices. And I'm sure, I'm sure that at the time this thing worked best, and it was also the cheapest thing for the country. And even for those who needed this paper, it was most expensive because they knew where to get it and at any time they could get it. But, of course, with the change, we imagined one very complicated and, above all, a very expensive system. And from the agricultural budget there is a lot of money for this purpose, which, of course, is being "cassed" on the ground by farmers. Some of my colleagues' statements are not true. It's not the vet's fault how they're getting rid of them, they're destroying slaughterhouse waste in this country. We know who set this up. Nor have the thermal treatment procedures been reduced in our area. This is the case with England, with us the vet insisted on the principle of the provisions that this was done as it should have been. But she didn't show up with BSE. She showed up somewhere else. So I would also ask you here, my respectable colleagues, but we cannot put everything in one basket: and now I would say: all mistakes and deviations of a system to the veterinary service. That just doesn't work. After all, it has the powers that the European Union requires. But I agree that we've solved some things in our own way. And this proposal by Mr Rokavac, I understand in this direction that we can also fix something for our farmers. The state wouldn't have been a loser if they'd accepted what he suggested. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u127	Comrade Sok, I did not want to pressure the debaters to be shorter or withdrawing their discussions, because I think this would be a less important law, other marriage projects are equally important. My friend Rokavec now has a word if he wants to replicate. I thought so. Retreat? You're withdrawing. Okay. Thank you very much. Comrade Jerovšek, would you like some? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u128	Thank you very much. I'm going to include myself in the replica of my colleague Kramberger, who I know is in an unappreciative position. In fact, this separation is normal with him. This comes from his position and I understand him to some extent. Nevertheless, I am closer to Mr Rokavac's proposal on this matter. That's because I know a few things. I'm sure the best veterinarian is a hard farmer and a satisfied breeder. For the most satisfied breeders and the strongest breeders need at least a veterinarian in the house. This is where there's a conflict of interest. And because of the conflict of interest, we are also faced with this matter today. However, in his previous performance, when a fellow Kramberger asked himself or swore that he could not agree that for everything, everything that was wrong in agriculture was the fault of the vet. I agree with him. It's not even the vet's fault. It's agricultural policy, it's government policy. That's a fact. And you're just an article or a victim of government policy over the past ten years. And there's a lot of things wrong here, and there's a lot of blame going on in this area. In fact, every institution within the government has begun to invent certain offices, new inspectorates, new services, this has not grown on the vet. It's all grown up in the government. And we already had this case today, this case we already had today, in the previous marriage. The government lost the compass, not the vet. The government has lost its compass, I agree with that. However, in this matter I firmly believe that the pet veterinarian knows better and says that he does not know what is the situation with infectious diseases in Slovenia. Slovenia is so small that in one day, it is possible to alert all necessary in one hour. And the house veterinarian must also know the situation in the field of infectious diseases. But it's not an illiterate man who's doing the job of an incompetent man! This is a highly qualified person, who must also have a dimension, cannot actually be a veterinarian for just one of you, but a person who communicates every day with the wider environment, with the situation of the matter also in the world, in the surrounding countries, so in this case, despite, as I say, I understand the difficulties, the dilemmas of colleague Kramberger, I think the marriage solution proposed by colleague Rokavec is appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u129	Thank you very much. Now we have two more debates. Can we then anticipate a vote? Please. First of all, colleague Sušnik and colleague Barovic. However, colleagues and colleagues, please come to the hall, we will vote on the decision of the parent working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I believe that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the veterinary law is very important for the further development of agriculture. Regrettably, now that the proposaler has deleted those three articles, it is probably less, but it is still important mainly because, at the time of its adoption, he would continue to report to our farmers, our farmers. I think our agriculture is eager and necessary for such a message or one message, a single law that would no longer strain but yield something. Look, I believe you've all taken a good look at the report on the status of agriculture in 2000. The claims previously made in the position of the Group of Members are an accurate summary of the report and this report is horrifying. This report is horrifying. At the moment, we have landed on 86,000 agricultural sites. Trend of incursion, abandonment is 3,000 a year. 3,000 a year, 3,000 farmers. The question is rightly asked whether we are in a position to maintain the rural population while leaving agriculture, while retaining the appearance of the cultural landscape. See, I also do not need to be particularly convinced that animal health care is essential and in this regard in the prevention of infectious diseases. However, there is no record that this concern, or all that is involved in animal health care and in the context of food health, must and can be passed on to the breeder. And that's exactly what happened with us. That is exactly what happened with us, and this results in the fact that we have fewer and fewer of these foster parents. And the adoption of this law could and must be a signal that something is changing in this area. Look, it's totally unacceptable and strange to me that the Minister's mistrust towards the vets was expressed when this law was discussed at a meeting of the working body. Strangely, the lack of trust in veterinarians is also by the Director of Veterinary Administration, not least this Minister and this Director decide who may be a veterinarian. And I see no reason to limit or in the way that we now regulate the issue or possibility and authorization to issue a veterinary certificate. Even more strange is the explanation given in contravention of article 16 of the Law, or the explanation that opposed the introduction of the passport. The explanation was that we don't have a register. Listen, with this number of people working on these registers and the people who administer agriculture, we could rightly ask ourselves today why, if this register is not available. Because if this register were, there is no reason not to introduce this passport, people have been spared unnecessary routes and money to obtain these veterinary certificates. Even more strange is the reasoning behind the opposition to this law, the fact that we have already negotiated and that such negotiating grounds are. Listen, if that's true, then you've negotiated extremely poorly and to the detriment of the Slovenian farmer. If we have to stay in this area, it is undeniable that 30,000 more farms will fall in the next ten years, as has been the case over the past ten years, and that this trend will continue and that in 2020 we will have 4,000 to 5,000 economic operators in the area of agriculture in Slovenia. If that's the point, then let's keep it that way. However, I do not think that this is the objective, so I am procedurally proposing that, in the context of the swift procedure after the general discussion, we should stop the consideration of this law and then the Committee and the other proponents of this law should be able to supplement it as it is open. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u131	In order for the procedural matter to be clear - the National Assembly will decide on the decision of the parent working body; if it rejects it, we will suspend the meeting and empower the President to convene the mother working body. If the National Assembly decides to refuse, we will conclude the procedure. My colleague Barovic is the last on my list of applicants, then the National Assembly will decide on the proposal for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u132	Thank you very much. I promise I'll be brief. In fact, I have a question that will make it easier for me to vote on this law. If I have correctly understood my colleague Rokavac with his proposal for a law amending and supplementing the veterinary law, he wants to achieve a rationalisation of price policy and simplify some process. In doing so, I am asked two questions that I would like to hear the answer to very much. The first question is the issue of guarantees. Following the system, as I have heard, the state guarantees - both to the breeder - as to the consumer that the animal is healthy. Or if the proposal for the law of Comrade Rokavac was adopted, the state would also guarantee both the breeder and the consumer that the animal is harmless as far as health is concerned. And another question that I don't understand and I didn't understand from the debate. Is the passport really a medical certificate at the same time? Just yes or no. I'd like to ask you a quick answer to these two questions, and thank you so much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u133	Does the proposer want to answer that question? Please, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. The first question, my colleague Barovic, is that we want to achieve rationalisation. That's right. This is also one of the basic purposes of the law. I do not think that there is any need to further explain rationalisation and even greater competitiveness. Second, the state guarantee. Of course, the State guarantee still exists because there is still a public authority to carry out this activity. The fact is that each veterinarian - whether it is a house or one who is currently performing - will guarantee health integrity on this veterinary certificate with his signature. And the third time. The passport cannot replace the veterinary certificate at the moment, as the document issued by the competent veterinary organisation or veterinarian is a veterinary certificate based on the current system. When, of course, the register is established and if we want to bring our tracking and traffic system closer to the system that other countries in the neighbourhood and Europe have, then I expect that the actual passport will be the document that will actually provide all the necessary traceability. But I warn you that I do not think the passport is as complete as it is made up in neighbouring countries. There's probably some work to be done here.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u135	My friend Kramberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u136	Thank you, Mr. President. I would suggest that if the representative of the secretariat and the government could answer that question, they would also give their opinion on this question, which was raised by colleague Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u137	The Secretariat doesn't want to. The government wants it? Then I'll find out that we've gone over the time taken for today's work. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u138	Thank you for your word. So the existing system is based on concession and therefore on knowledge of the wider area. So there is a person, a concession for the area and therefore a knowledge of the wider area and also of the conditions of infectious diseases in the area. Therefore, a medical certificate is also being issued. So, knowledge of the wider area. Of course, there is monitoring of animals in our system in the wider area, and therefore not in any case, as has been said before. But the fact is that our veterinary system is being built and it is at this point difficult to talk about comparability with neighbouring countries, such as Austria, where this system is already built. So the tracking system has been in place for a long time, so it is stable and thus allows all of these monitoring. With us, it is in construction and when the system is built when a certain traceability is determined when the breeding of disease-free diseases, when a complete control system is put in place, is also possible to abolish medical certificates in internal transport and, of course, adaptability or this service, as mentioned in this debate today. Of course, considerable resources have been invested in this organisation and work as well, and the question of the meaning of the change is being raised at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-03-22-SDZ3-Redna-14.ana.u139	Thank you very much. If no one objects and no one wants a word, I propose that we decide on this proposal for a decision. That would be today's final decision. No one's objecting. Okay, then we'll decide on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, which is what it is. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, following a rapid procedure, shall not be adopted. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal of the parent working body. May I have your attention and peace in the hall? 46 present. 30, 10 against. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 10.]] I understand that the decision of the parent's working body has been adopted. And that concludes this point. Before we break up, I would like to warn you that we will meet again on Tuesday, 26 March at 2 p.m. We will begin the discussion of the 32nd item and proceed with the 2nd item of the agenda and then the National Assembly will move on to the 10th and 22nd items and on the agenda. I thank all of you for your cooperation, and I want a nice weekend. Thank you very much. Until Tuesday, I'm adjourning the session.
