ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Richard Beumann for the beginning of the session, Michael Brejc, Vojko Čeligoj, Roman Jakič, Branko Janc, Milan Kopushar until 3 p.m., Franc Lenko, Yuri Malovr, Ivan Mamić, Aloz Peterle, Jožef Školč, Janko Weber and Tsveta Zalokar Orazem from 17:00 p.m. We're moving to 2. Period of the day - Another defense proposal for an explosive law. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u2	Good morning, Madam Members and Members of Parliament and the President! This is a second consideration of the new Explosives Act, which replaces the applicable Act on the Transport of Explosive Substances of 1989 and the Explosive Substances, Fusion Liquids, Gases and Other Dangerous Substances Act of 1977. In short, it is a matter of replacing the rules that were issued in completely different circumstances and a long time ago. At the same time, compliance with the European Union Regulation or Directive No 15 of 1993. The law regulates, in a systematic and modern manner, in accordance with the Regulation, the production, transport and use of explosives or other such dangerous substances, specifying, in accordance with European classifications, terminology in this field. As regards second reading discussions, it is worth highlighting initiatives in terms of restricting purchases or imports or the conditions for obtaining authorisation for purchases or imports specifically for legal persons, natural persons and specifically for societies. The regulation now proposed, supported by the Internal Policy Committee, is such that there remains a limit to the purchase of one kilogram of powder and 1,500 nickels per piece of weapons in the calendar year for natural persons. And after this regulation, society is not entitled to purchase powder as ingredients and nitlets as components for the preparation of explosives. It is added in second reading to limit the possible purchase of ammunition abroad, on the basis of a permit for a natural person to purchase a maximum of 2 000 pieces of ammunition per piece of weapons for each quarter. And it is specifically introduced into the law by which a company may be authorised to purchase ammunition abroad for the purposes of a society in accordance with the rules on a company registered for shooting or hunting. One permit allows the purchase of a maximum of 36,000 rounds of ammunition for each quarter in the calendar year. This is the two news brought by the debate on the Committee on Internal Policy in the second reading. And the proposer agrees with these amendments. The proposer also supports all the other amendments adopted as his internal policy committee and invites the national assembly to confirm them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u3	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the member of the committee, Cveto Zalokar Orazam, to present the report of the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u4	Good morning, everyone. On 2 October, the Committee of the National Assembly on Internal Policy considered the proposal for an Explosives Act. The most debate took place with regard to Article 28 of the bill, which also included an amendment by fellow Member Vukko. The proposer objected to the amendment. However, the majority of the members of the committee considered and also decided and adopted the amendment to Article 28 of the Law, since, contrary to the proposal, they felt that the purchase of ammunition by means of the proposed regulation would not be legalised, as a special permit for the transfer of ammunition across borders was required under the State border control law. The administrative unit shall then decide on the issue of such authorisation on the basis of a discretionary right. And since the members felt that the draft law did not solve this or that it did not go into law, it was necessary to remedy it by means of the amendment mentioned above. Members of the Committee also devoted more time to the issue of compulsory Slovenian language knowledge for persons who carry out traffic or use explosives. The Committee then adopted an amendment setting out the compulsory knowledge of the Slovenian language only for persons carrying out trafficking in explosives, as this is a matter of business with the parties, while in the Committee we considered that such knowledge of the Slovenian language was not necessary in the use of explosives. In this way, I can say that the Committee has adopted amendments to Articles 12 and 41 of the LDS Club and to the ZLS Group of Members, SLS, DeSUS. As I have already mentioned, the Committee also supported the amendments by Mr Vukko, Dusan Vukko and the amendments to Articles 11 and 21. In doing so, the Committee carried out its work, adopted all decisions concerning the other articles of the law and considered that the law was suitable for consideration.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The opinion of the Socialist Party Group will be presented by Mr Pavel Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u6	Dear President, Mr Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! The Social Democratic Party, Members agree with the proposed amendments. I would only mention a comment, or consideration, to the next reading, in the proposal submitted by the Hunting Union of Slovenia, so that a natural person could possess or import up to 5 kg of explosives. Why do we find this questionable? In particular, because we estimate that 5 kg is too much and that there may be problems with storage in the home environment or wherever these explosives are stored. We estimate that the kilogram is truly lifeless, but that 5 kg is too much, precisely because of the reason I said it, and I'm predicting an amendment to find some compromise, maybe 2.5 kg. Otherwise, we will support the marriage or this treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u8	Thank you. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the law. In the parliamentary group, we believe that the law on explosives in the normative field needs to be regulated. It has been a recent time for this issue, as regards transport, storage and extraction of explosives in the Republic of Slovenia, to be resolved, legally resolved and in some way to reach comparable European legislation, which will also solve this problem in the Republic of Slovenia. We also welcome Article 11, which adopted an amendment to the Committee, which states that the acquisition or acquisition of explosives is prohibited for persons under 18 years of age, especially pyrotechnics. We ourselves are aware that many times before and before Christmas these incidents occur with pyrotechnic means, especially those who are not qualified or who do not know how to handle such a pyrotechnic substance. The parliamentary group also supports Article 28 and the amendment, Mr Vukko, which was adopted by the Committee on Internal Policy, which speaks mainly of the acquisition of explosive substances for civilians, mainly for individual members of the shooting and hunting societies. Also in our parliamentary group, we felt that 1 kg of powder was slightly low or weight for one shooting or hunting organisation or individual member. We interpret this as saying that if an individual hunter in a store can buy 2 to 3,000 rounds of ammunition for the "trap" shooting discipline, and if we recalculate those ounces of powder that are in those bullets, we can find that it's over kilograms and there's no damage or concern if there were 2 kilograms or 3 in this article. For all those members of the shooting organizations as well as hunting organizations and individuals have experience and know how to deal with firearms, ammunition and explosives, because they are well trained in how and how to separate explosives and ammunition from weapons, in specially designed cabinets and premises. Therefore, if the Social Democrats table an amendment to this Article, this amendment would also be supported by this article. The Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the law and all other amendments or articles adopted by the Internal Policy Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dusan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u10	Madam Vice President, thank you for your input. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! The existing legislation on explosives has emerged in a completely different socio-economic and social situation as we know them today. In addition to the outdated legislation in this area, the need to harmonise existing legislation with the legal order of the European Union is also a reason for legislative change. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports the proposal for a law, one of the main objectives of which is to transpose the requirements of the Directive of the European Union. Thus, it is essential to regulate the free movement of goods belonging to explosives for civil use, taking into account safety requirements. Thus, after the adoption of this law, all explosive means of civilian use will have to stop difficult tests before they can appear on the market. In this part, the Act on Explosives relies on technical legislation already adopted by the Republic of Slovenia in the field of free movement of goods, namely the Law on Technical Requirements for the Production and Identification of Standards of Compliance. In addition to implementing the Directive of the European Union, in the Group of Members, we have put particular emphasis on security and record-keeping, which should be established by the application of this Act. In this spirit, we have also proposed some amendments to the Committee, as we believe that, in addition to the implementation of the directive, the market for explosives, more concrete ammunition, liberalisation and consequently reduction of the grey zone in the import controls of ammunition. In the field of ammunition sales in Slovenia we currently have a monopoly or oligopolistic situation. The selected companies offer ammunition at non-competitive prices and individuals, hierarchically viewed from the team down, are forced to illegally purchase and import cheaper and better ammunition abroad. This area represents a gray zone and we can only guess how much ammunition is being imported into Slovenia. Therefore, our intention to amend Article 28 is to demonopolise the market with ammunition, to allow for a more favourable purchase, both price and quality, of ammunition abroad. As a result, a more competitive offer in Slovenia. With liberalisation, as we have proposed, we are trying to establish, which is not insignificant, a record and to reduce the so-called grey zone of inspection of ammunition imports. We have put forward a proposal for a procurement limit after consulting some athletes involved in shooting, hunters and sports fans, and we have also taken into account the European directive, which provides for the free movement of ammunition and at the same time does not jeopardise public order and peace and security issues. The bill, as before you today, is supported and voted in favour of the Act on Explosives.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Zmago Jelinčič Plemeniti. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u12	Have a nice hello to you all. The Slovenian national party will support this law, although we have quite a few comments on it. Above all, I think that the distribution of pyrotechnic means is wrong and pointless. In particular, pyrotechnics or pyrotechnic articles should be shared differently. For the first time, pyrotechnic articles for civil use, pyrotechnic articles for technical use or purposes and pyrotechnic articles for military purposes. If the gentlemen of the Ministry may not be aware, it should be known that specific pyrotechnic articles which are not on the open market are used in geological research and do not go to any of the classes they have proposed. Furthermore, pyrotechnic articles for civil use would be divided into four categories. First class, these are products suitable for indoor use. Second class suitable for use outside residential areas in residential settlements. Third class, products suitable for use in large open spaces. And fourth grade are products that are not sold free and are intended for professional use for the execution of large fireworks. This is how they have regulated the legislation of the European Union country, which we are so keen to say. Then, in Article 28, it is pointless to limit to hunters the purchase of powder to a height of one kilogram and up to 1500 methyl. If someone is doing "reloading" ammunition or filling up ammunition for sports events alone, I can assure you, at one sports event, between 3 and 6 thousand bullets are used on each individual contestant. With that, of course, we can't even talk about training here. And yet here we limit the purchase of natural persons to, even at the second point, when speaking, a maximum of 2 thousand pieces of ammunition. Next year Slovenia will organize an international competition where more than 300 contestants from around the world will be held in Krske. What are we going to say that we can't have bullets from Slovenian competitors because the law is going to limit this to us? Or we'll go rogue, smuggling and breaking the law. I think they're very inanimate articles. In particular, I do not know why this law should deal with the purchase of ammunition, because I think it is more of an arms law that needs a few minor changes, and that change would also be in there. The ammunition that can be inserted into the explosives law can only be used for special purposes, such as the shooting of sharks, where dynamite bullets are involved. This is a comment on the 30th and 31st paragraphs. Article 36(3) makes no sense when it is stated that the use of pyrotechnic articles of Class 1 and 2 is prohibited in broken dwellings, buildings and all closed spaces. If gentlemen looked at what was happening on the market in the European Union, they would see that a whole range of pyrotechnic articles were intended for use in closed spaces. So let's say Vulcan-type pyrotechnic articles, and also we could not perform any public events in Slovenia, at which any world-renowned pop group could participate, as the pyrotechnical effects are used at all concerts. In short, I also have comments on Article 50, paragraph 5, but I am running out of time, as it turns out. Here we are again at that stupid provision of this new stupid rule, which does not allow a debate on matters that are very important, very vital for the law to come to life, because otherwise we will have to talk again about the law when we introduce the law amending the law and correct the great stupidities that are in this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mrs Zupanov, a respected colleague and colleague, the new Rules of Procedure, of course, also allow for the change of laws in the second reading. Thus, five days before the meeting of the assembly was the time for amendments to this law, so as not to be politicized. The possibility was also given by the Rules of Procedure. I give the floor to Ambassador Maja Zupan to present the views of the New Slovenia Group. Here you go, Mrs. Majda.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government, the House of Respect! The proposal for the Explosives Act that we have on our sent-off benches - explosives are almost as old as humanity and interesting in particular because of their characteristics for different types of criminals. This is a topic dealt with by legislation, but it arose in different situations and on different legal bases. The entry of Slovenia into the European Union and thus the 1993 Directive also compels us to adopt a new law, but of course also modern requirements and criteria regarding the competence, education and responsibilities of all entities working with explosives. The main idea that led the applicants in the drafting of the new law was market liberalisation, and we hope that they were aware that it was precisely for the protection of consumers that they needed to focus on meeting safety requirements. Therefore, manufacturers are obliged to send explosives before they are placed on the shelves of trade in a series of tests to prove the characteristics of the chemical-physical, mineral-technical and safety components. In order to ensure quality, testing is prescribed in independent laboratories which must verify and ensure quality following the conformity assessment procedure, bearing the certificate of such a product. The specific area of this law is the field of pyrotechnic articles with which most citizens and citizens meet at the end of the year at the celebration of the new year. The survey, the survey itself carried out, shows that the domestic public believes that the use of firecrackers should be prevented. The calamities we witness each year, especially among children, indicate the need to do something in this direction. However, the motion for a bill does not provide for a ban on redundancies, explaining that none of our neighbours knows such prohibitions. And it also shows that the possibility of additional taxation of rising pyrotechnic products by the Ministry of Finance did not give rise to green light. In the New Slovenia Group, we support the proposal for a law because we believe that it is necessary, in particular, to provide security requirements and in this light we also see the condition of active knowledge of the Slovenian language, in the fourth indent of Article 11(1). We hope and believe that different competitions - they are biathlon and a variety of others, are not reduced in this respect, as they can import ammunition in unlimited quantities on the basis of the application. What about the hunting organization? According to the applicant, she did not make any applications in this respect. However, there are interesting amendments to Article 28, by which a Member increases the purchase of 1 kg of powder and 1,500 nets for a piece of weapons for a tri-month period for a natural person with one permit, while the original proposal allows the company to purchase up to 36,000 rounds of ammunition for a year. We wonder if such a solution really means demonopolising the ammunition market. Maybe this way there will be fewer bears, among other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u15	Thank you. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the bill will be carried out on Friday, 25.10.2002. I hereby terminate this item of the agenda and at 10.35 a.m. we will continue to consider item 3 of the agenda, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on detective activity. Thank you very much. We'll resume at 10.35.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u16	Your Honor! We're moving to 3. PERIOD OF THE DAY - ANOTHER DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE DETECTIVE ACTIVITY LAW. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Dr. Rado Bohinc, Minister of the Interior, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u17	Your Honor! We propose a second reading of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Detective Activity. This novelty aligns the regulation in this area with the negotiating points adopted for Slovenia's entry into the European Union. The most important part of the novel is the European one where the amendments to Article 10 of the Law are proposed, namely the position of a foreign detective carrying out a detective activity in three different possible versions, i.e. a detective with a valid licence issued by a detective chamber of the Republic of Slovenia or as a foreign detective carrying out a detective activity under a professional name from his own country, or as a foreign detective who performs only a single detective service. All three possible situations are settled after the addition of Article 10. However, as we have already presented in the first reading, the objectives of the proposed amendment are also the shortest: to harmonise this law with the law on the protection of personal data, then to clarify the boundaries of the conduct of detective activity or of the work of detectives, to further improve the quality of detective activity, to establish effective control over the legality of detective work or the way in which detective activities are carried out, to begin with, to say that we are establishing a special type of inspection, that is, an inspector for private protection, and also to ensure the legitimate conduct of detective activity and to prevent the so-called disloyal or black conduct of detective activity. The proposer shall support the amendments adopted by the Internal Policy Committee. In most cases, it is the amendments of honourable Member Vukko or amendment, which were prepared on the basis of a proposal from Parliament's legislative and legal service. It's the next time I introduce them. The definition of the so-called "instant control" where the Ministry of the Interior becomes the appellate body for decisions of the detective chamber; here we have taken into account the procedure under the General Administrative Procedure Act and have also harmonised the deadlines for appeals to the decisions of the detective chamber. The next novelty, or amendment, is that the law removes the discretionary right of the detective chamber to decide which person is worthy of confidence in carrying out the detective activity. So it's about a special condition for obtaining a license. The next novelty, i.e. the amendment, is to specify the reasons for the withdrawal of a detective's license in the event of a conviction, a legal conviction for a criminal offence prosecuted under an official obligation, with an unconditional penalty of more than 6 months. And to specify the content of the notification or notification procedure for the provision of a specific detective service in the case of a detective from a Member State of the European Union who wishes to provide a single detective service. Two more updates from the Internal Policy Committee's amendments. The first group refers to the addition of criminal provisions. In fact, it is a matter of increasing the penalties for offences committed in the conduct of a detective activity from at least 50 000 per transaction to at least 150 000. And there is a transitional period, slightly different, for the conduct of professional examinations for inspectors. Here the deadline is extended from the previous proposed one year to the subsequent two years. It also extends the deadline for the transition to a self-financing system in detective chambers from the previous 6 months to now one year. In short, this amendment is supported by the proposer. However, I would like to define a further amendment, namely the amendment of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group to Article 3 of the bill. The proposal is to amend Article 8, paragraph 4, of the current law, to extend a competitive clause or to further restrict the right to carry out a detective activity [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] In this part of the amendment, we do not support it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u18	Mr. Secretary, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u20	However, this option will be given by the government at the time of the amendment, given that it has been tabled by the Group of Members, at the time of its consideration of the amendment. Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask a member of the committee, Dušana Wolf, to present the report of the committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you for your word. Dear Vice President, colleagues, colleagues! At its 25th regular meeting on 2.10., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on detective activity submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration and acceptance. In the supplementary explanation, the applicant explained that the main objective of amending and supplementing the law on detective activities is to remove administrative and legal obstacles to the conduct of detective activities in the Republic of Slovenia for citizens from European Union countries, which is in line with the adopted negotiating points for the entry of the Republic of Slovenia into the European Union. The draft law was also given a written opinion by the Commission of the State Council on the political system, in which it in principle supported the proposal of the law by commenting that it should be amended in such a way that, in the event that it collects information that is not entitled to be collected, it is punishable by a penalty of permanent withdrawal of the licence and not only by a fine as provided for in the proposed bill. Members have been identified directly before this proposal by not proposing an amendment in accordance with the Commission's comment. With regard to the new condition for carrying out a detective activity, which provides that a detective must be trusted to carry out a detective activity, the members of the committee considered that discretionary decision should not be left to the Chamber in its assessment of compliance with this condition. The Committee adopted the following amendments, namely the amendments to Articles 1, 3, 14 and 15 of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia and to the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, the Slovenian People's Party and the parties DeSUS, to Articles 1, 3, 14 and 15, and the amendments to Articles 1, 9 and 19 of Mr Dusan Vukko, as well as the amendments to Articles 3, 5, 10, 13, 14, 16, 20 and 21.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much. the following is the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Pavel Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Dear President, Mr Minister, members of the government, colleagues and colleagues! How pointless the rules of procedure are, we saw just a few minutes ago, when the President, or quite in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, inexcusably interrupted the Minister. I waited until the end for the answer from his mouth, but I did not hear his position on the amendment tabled, which I would also like to make a point on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group. I must say that all the criticism of the Rules of Procedure, which, according to my assessment, is the rules of procedure for qualified leprechauns who perform small crafts, take advantage of the afternoon rest and few come to work in the National Assembly. I'm sorry I rolled out of the dark, but I think it's totally absurd. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the Group of the Social Democratic Party, Mr Anderlich, I beg you to laugh at yourself. I did not support this Rules of Procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u24	Please, peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u25	But please go laugh there so you don't disturb those who have another job to do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u26	Mr Rupar, please present the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u27	Ma'am, I'm glad he'll give me peace. The Social Democratic Party will only support the law on detective activities if an amendment, which we have tabled to Article 8(4) in the first paragraph, has been voted on by the content so that those who have performed the services of authorised officials, the intelligence and security services before 15.5.1990 and in the last five years cannot be licensed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs or Intelligence, so that they are deleted. The explanation is simple. We believe that obtaining a license to carry out a detective activity must be impossible for all those persons who have been in the anti-intelligence and security-intelligence services in the former Yugoslavia, since most Central and Eastern European countries are aware of such arrangements. This amendment would also extend the period to be extended from the performance of the tasks of the authorised officials of the Ministry of the Interior or of the intelligence and security services, from two to five years, because the existing limit does not constitute sufficient security for those persons not to take advantage of the information obtained in their activities against the persons they deal with in detective activities. Once again, we hope that this amendment will be adopted in a reasonable manner. Then I can also point out the support of the Socialist Party's Group of Members for this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u28	Thank you very much. I owe you, Mr. Rupar, an explanation. Mr Minister presented the position, a complementary explanation of the bill. The amendment duly tabled by your parliamentary group will be discussed in the next 10, 20, 30, 35, 38 minutes after the time announced by the groups, and within that time the government has notified itself with 10 minutes. I think that, at the time of one amendment to Article 3, a very correct presentation, both the governments and you who are proposing this law, can be made within 38 minutes of our availability. And the amendment itself will be discussed. I do not think it is necessary - I have been obliged to explain that there is no shorter right to discuss amendments under this law that we are considering. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Franz Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u29	Thank you for your word. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on detective activity. We are of the opinion that this is primarily a sensitive law that gives normative activity to individuals, detective agencies and private people. The tasks and activities of the Chamber are very important when it comes to the withdrawal of a licence by decision and we believe that this is well enough under this Article. We also support the articles which give foreign, private and authorised detectives in any way to carry out this activity in our area, but when Slovenia enters the European Union it is also necessary to regulate the principle of reciprocity here. This means that our people involved in this activity must also be enabled and given those tasks, as in other countries that are making up the European Union, and have the same opportunities. As far as inspection is concerned, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group considers that it has jurisdiction in Article 22 of the Minister which prescribes the manner in which inspections are carried out. Here we are of the opinion that the Minister, by means of his sub-law, will be able to regulate thoroughly and legally the inspection in such a way that these activities carried out by individuals who in some way walk on the limits of legality, as regards data collection - it is clear to us that this activity can be very human rights and that individuals who perform these tasks and activities of detectives can often walk within the limits of legality. Here we appeal to the Minister, as a parliamentary group, to prepare thoroughly, in accordance with Article 22, a regulation defining the manner and legality of carrying out inspections. Of course, as regards criminal sanctions in Article 19 for the services of offences committed by individual detective agencies and detectives, we believe that they are far too small. If someone commits an offence from this activity and even though amendments have been adopted on the Internal Policy Committee, which have slightly increased the penalties, to at least 150,000 tolars - see the Transport Safety Act and some other laws which prescribe for legal persons a penalty of over 1 million tolars or more. I think that we should, too, in this area, think about legal persons and as agencies should bear greater responsibilities and fall under eternal criminal sanctions as far as monetary penalties are concerned. Of course it is last, and I will also discuss the amendment of the Socialist Group of Members, our opinion that it would be appropriate to make such an amendment to support it. The reasons why we would support such an amendment, but I will put an amendment into the debate later on. It is important in this law that in some ways we give the opportunity - and often people get the feeling that Slovenian detectives and detective agencies are under-supervised. Why? In technology that occurs on the market and in free circulation, one could claim or get the feeling repeatedly that these people who engage in such or other detective activities can use technologies such as certain intelligence services in the Republic of Slovenia or either the Slovenian police. They can significantly interfere with such technology in the field of human rights. In this area, however, we do not have certain legal principles that would allow certain authorities in the Republic of Slovenia to control detective agencies and individual detectives and their activities in a thorough manner. We get the feeling that we have a third para-intelligence service. Today, we can tell a large company in the Republic of Slovenia that wants to buy one or another company, there is no problem in paying a detective agency to monitor data on an enterprise with certain devices in the field of economy, if I may use the terms, special measures or methods that are on the market today. I wonder, and it would be very interesting to know who will control it. And successful is that detective, or famous among the Slovenian public, who in some ways serves it conditionally. That's why we're going to support the marriage. And we appeal again. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] to the Minister, in accordance with Article 22, to prepare thoroughly a sub-legislative act concerning the control of the detective activity itself. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dusan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you for your word, Vice President. Dear colleagues! The adoption of the detective activity law in 1994 filled the legal void in the field of legal regulation of the so-called private investigation activity for the purposes of legal and natural persons. Detective activity has become a new commercial, profitable activity in our country, which is increasingly taking place, especially in the business world. The amendments and additions to the law now eliminate this gap between actual and normative, as the development of detective activity in the Republic of Slovenia has already exceeded the 1994 law regime. Detectives perform detective activity as a free profession, either individually or in a detective society. In order to establish a detective society, the most important legal source is the law on companies and the law on detective activity. In the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the proposer in the proposed law has ensured that the law is aligned with the law on the protection of personal data and has set a clearer limit for the conduct of detective activities. Detectives have a special legal status that gives them certain powers, so they themselves cannot assess what is allowed and what is not allowed to carry out this activity. In our parliamentary group, we have examined the proposed law in line with this fact and have also proposed some amendments. Because we believe that in our work the detectives are also dealing with information and data that are confidential to individuals or businesses, we have proposed amendments that, for example, take the detective chamber discretion, the discretionary right to decide who is a detective, and raised certain penalties for individuals who violate the provisions of this law. We believe that the proposed law is suitable for adoption and will consequently have an impact on the improvement of the quality of detective activity, will provide a legal basis for effective control of the legality of detective work and will also ensure the lawful conduct of detective activity in the Republic of Slovenia. For all these reasons, we will support the law in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u32	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u33	Thank you very much, Madam President. Colleagues, colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we estimate that preparing for any law, including specifically detective, the law on detective activity, based on the existing rules of procedure, is inappropriate. Since, despite increasing the powers of Members in the home working body, where the first hearing is actually held, it is impossible to do anything at second reading. However, I myself, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, on the Committee on Internal Policy, where we have given particular attention, at least in the Slovenian National Party, to Article 2, which speaks of the financing of the Chamber of Detectives. The Slovenian national party objected to and opposes the deletion of Article 3 which is proposed and also adopted in the form of an amendment and will be submitted today. We pay particular attention in the Slovenian National Party and, of course, also to colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly, Article 16, which actually speaks about securing the rule of law of our country. In all its additional and upgraded articles a/, b/, c/, n/, d/ and e/. I am confident, and we are also convinced in the Slovenian National Party that certain elements which are possible, possible, the European legal order envisaged, are not aligned. However, the Rules of Procedure do not give us the possibility of discussion and comparisons again. Once we accept the amendments, once again I ask my colleagues and colleagues to pay attention, as we have in the Slovenian National Party, in particular Article 3, and to the proposed deletion of this Article and to be very careful when adopting Article 16. Once again, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say that all these speeches on the basis of the Rules of Procedure are not democratic and merciful, because voting on the parent's working body, where the first hearing is held, is so strong that, in fact, I think, this part that we have here now is just a farce and like the European Parliament, which I pointed out yesterday, a debate circle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much. The opinion of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The detective activity as a gainful activity that is increasingly being pursued, both for the purposes of legal and natural persons, received its legal basis in 1994, by adopting a law on detective activity. This has also started the process of privatising police activity or, in fact, privatisation in the area of security, which has previously been in the exclusive police domain. At that time, most of the detectives recruited themselves from the types of intelligence and security services and from the Ministry of the Interior, which was not always and was not always in the best interests of the profession. The principle of legality should be the guiding principle of the rule of law in this area. And it is precisely to preserve the state's monopoly on security that is a very important mechanism in the exercise of control over the legality of work and the operation of detectives. One of the most important conditions for carrying out the detective activity laid down in Article 8 is the nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. However, this provision is contrary to the Treaty establishing the European Community, adopted at the end of the 1950s in Rome, which refers to three rights, namely the right to freedom of movement of workers, the right to free establishment of businesses and the right to freedom of service. It is true, however, that the European Commission has not adopted a specific directive for detective activity and therefore the general rules and case law of the European Court of Justice must be taken into account. In the New Slovenia Group of Members, we are aware that the development of detective activity in some of the provisions has exceeded the legal provisions in force and that certain changes and additions are needed. However, we note that the proposal for a law is not well prepared, since the parent committee had much to define and clarify through the amendments. Allow me also to present the opinion of our Group on the amendment of the Social Democrats to Article 3. We support this amendment and hope that it will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much. We have heard the views of the members of the groups. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 16.10.2002. There is only one amendment tabled by the Socialist Party's parliamentary group to Article 3. Before we go to the debate, I would like to make an explanation, because for the first time in the second reading, we are having a debate on the amendments tabled on the amended bill. When determining the time to deal with this item, the groups notified, including for the consideration of the amendment, the time they would like to spend in this debate, namely from the review you have yourself, that the SDS Group has 10 minutes, ZLSD 3 minutes, SLS 5 minutes, SNS 10 minutes and the government 10 minutes. This has been a notified period and the duration of this item is also set. Individual Members and Members are not limited in the debate, but are, of course, bound by the debate on the time notified by the Group of Members. Our well-respected co-worker from the services of the National Assembly will count this time and with a special sign that she will present to you now - this sign - you will be Members and Members of Parliament know that the time notified by the parliamentary group for the debate on the amendment is exhausted. The Members themselves are not limited. The government may, within 10 minutes, which it has also notified, apply to the word at any time, not have to wait for the end. I hope it's clear. We are therefore moving on to a debate on the amendment of the Socialist Party's Group to Article 3. Who wants a word? Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you. Here I will strike again at the non-life solutions of the current Rules of Procedure. As you have already identified, there is actually a restriction on the activity of the Member State. However, I will try to define myself to this amendment, and even a little wider, what is behind the fact that we have been obliged to submit such an amendment to the Group of Members. For the time being, the bad situation in this area is largely the fault of the poor marriage solution contained in the detective activity law in 1994, which did not provide for strict respect for the competitive clause and effective control over the activities of private investigators. Of course, this law did not define conditions or exceptions well enough when it is not possible to carry out detective activities. The reason is likely that at that time people from the police and intelligence services or young pensioners of these services had a massive transition to private institutions dealing with security or detective activity. Of course, there is a purely personal interest here. From this point of view, it is logical that they also had an impact on such marital solutions that were beneficial to them. Although the police or intelligence services should already determine the necessary time within the competitive clause when someone is unable to enter a competitive activity or is unable to obtain a licence to carry out this competitive activity. Such solutions were neither present in this law nor respected. As I have already mentioned, people from a private detective institution, including many of them or most of the previous crimes and intelligence agents, were mass-transmitted, but at the same time their sources of information and data that they had drawn from the previous services were not cut off. That was the basis for abuse. We cannot be surprised that abuse occurred, for there were no clear boundaries between their previous professional activity and their subsequent private activity. The Ministry also notes that the existing regime was completely inadequate, which is reflected in the fact that it is virtually non-existent and cannot be effectively implemented. This is stated in the explanation of the law and claims that it is so much more urgent that now, otherwise with time delay, we prevent such abuses. I must draw attention to the fact that, in some case, on the monitoring committee, we have determined whether there has been an abuse by the state intelligence services, that the representatives of the Ministry of the Interior have shown us, somehow, that it is possible that there has been abuse by private detective services. I'll only mention the case of Cheferin, but we haven't established anything, but they haven't ruled out such abuse. Because of this, as you can see, there may be very serious abuses. It is because of the nature of the work in these services that a competitive clause should be extended, and I expect that such a solution as we have proposed in this article will also be supported by the Government that the government or the internal ministry is on the line, that it works lawfully in this country and that some of the data and information collected by these detectives in previous services cannot be used for private purposes or even for human rights violations. Control is also essential for all of this. In this regard, too, as I have already mentioned, and as the applicant himself acknowledges, there has been no supervision so far. It was envisaged, it was not implemented, it was not effective and there was no possibility of effective control. The current solution that those who have so far been destined to exercise control somehow automatically turn into inspectors does not seem good to me. If I understand correctly, it's inspectorial control that does, but not the automatic turn of these people into inspectors. Here it must go through some criteria that are newly established or must be re-established. I also agree, of course, that it is not possible for licensing to be left to the discretionary decision of the Chamber. For this reason, I also believe that what the Council of State has proposed is necessary in order to obtain a direct licence in the event of an irregularity or violation of the rights of a private investigator. However, the law now provides that the inspector will also determine the performance of the illegal activity. However, as has already been said here, the criminal sanctions provided for here are too weak, too weak, too determined, so I think the law needs to be finalised. However, if these provisions do not go into the structure of the law, then we will continue to have a bad marriage and abuse will continue, because these people who come from the former services to the new detective organisations are becoming more and more, and this mess must finally be removed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you. I give my word to Mr. Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you for your word. In the parliamentary group, and personally, I think it would be useful to support this amendment proposed by the Socialist Group of Members. Why? It's important to ask who the private detectives are today. If we go to see a list of all detectives who have the right license in the Republic of Slovenia to perform this function, we can find that most of these detectives are former officials of the internal affairs authorities or some of the intelligence services that worked in the Republic of Slovenia. Everyone has the right under the law to perform this function, everyone. However, if by this right and certain tasks previously performed in certain services, in particular in the internal affairs bodies and in the security and intelligence services of the Republic of Slovenia, it has been possible for that person, who has sought to carry out a detective activity and to obtain a licence for the performance of this function, to obtain a whole range of data, sources of information of a kind or a different nature, to have access to certain human rights guaranteed by law and, under special conditions, to certain authorities, to be trained and trained in the use of specific methods and means and certain electronic and other devices, I think it would be very prudent to adopt these amendments, which speak mainly in the second part, that he has not performed the tasks of authorised officials in the last five years. This would be in line with Article 22, which defines control, in accordance with what the Minister of the Interior will prescribe by means of a sub-legislative act, one of the fundamental guardians in order for these people to have a restriction. Most of the Slovenian detectives we have working under the law today have been retired under the Police Act. Most of them. Today, after a two-year period, after a two-year clause, they have obtained a licence, opened up their agencies or working organisations and are carrying out this activity further. It is said that the police trained them, the state authorities trained them because, under special conditions, they allowed them under the law on police, because of their engagement, personal engagement and work, early retirement and at the same time that schooling, the knowledge they acquired after retirement, continue to work in a detective agency or by obtaining that license. Here, personally, me and our Group of Members have a point of view. If this period of two years with this amendment were extended to a period of five years, it would seem to me that it would be reasonable and meaningful. If a country leaves, if it allows a country under the Police Act, to be able to retire early due to its past activity and self-sacrifice, I think it would be so political, moral and humane that it would also be acceptable to adopt this amendment, which is limited within a five-year period to prohibit certain people who have been employed in any way in the Security and Intelligence Service or internal affairs bodies, to carry out their activities in the field of detectivery. Once again, this is a particular problem that this Slovenian society is not feeling today. Detectives are gathering information in accordance with the law. On many occasions, however, they walk on the side of the law if they want to do their job from the contracting authority, to do well, and to use some other methods and means that are today difficult for inspectors and some others to prove that someone is using or using these methods and means. I therefore once again appeal to the Minister of the Interior to support this amendment with these arguments that I have put forward here. I think that would get us a 5-year-old security guard, and it's worth it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues. In the parliamentary group, we oppose the proposed amendment. The amendment has two parts. In the first part, it proposes to extend the inability to carry out a detective activity from 2 years to 5 years, after termination of work in previous ministries or intelligence services. The purpose of this provision is to conflict with the interests or information it has previously had and with the tasks it has. If we look at what a detective under Article 9 and Article 10 can actually do, then we are convinced that after two years there can be no conflict of interest. However, if it is a breach of an activity and performs tasks that are not competent to perform, it is, of course, a different control and it is necessary to withdraw the licence first. The problem of exploiting the rights and knowledge he has acquired, but I think it is necessary to resolve it in other laws and possibly not allow such early retirement. But not first to allow retirement, but then to say, "Let's stop you from doing a private activity." The second part of the proposal, however, concerns the possibility of prohibiting the carrying out of a detective activity for persons who were employed in authorized intelligence and security services before 15 May 1990. With regard to this work, I think it is very direct to say that, if this proposal was adopted, they would introduce into a private activity a chandelier in the exercise of their own profession. And after 12 years of democracy in a free profession, where it's nowhere to be expected. The resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe 1096, which discusses lustration, also provides for it in public services. Of course, it is only provided that personal guilt is identified, not some activity. We have convinced that the adoption of such a proposal would be contrary to the principles and rules of the rule of law and would in fact constitute an act of some kind of punishment, which would not be appropriate, so we oppose this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you very much. On our own and in the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we have come up with a question that is not only related to the proposed amendment of the Social Democratic Party, but also to the original Article 8. We assess everyone in the Slovenian National Party that there is in fact an existing Article 8 as well as the amendment proposed by the Social Democratic Party is discriminatory. We would therefore be interested in the opinion, the expert opinion of the legal service. Restricting someone who has an appropriate professional education in a particular field of work, restricting this person, I do not know for what reasons, I find it discriminatory and contrary to the principles of the Constitution and the laws which speak of everyone having the right to choose a profession, of course if they have the right education. For reasons of discrimination, it is our view that we will oppose this amendment, as we will also raise the question of the original 4th point of existing Article 8. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to identify myself on behalf of the proposer to the amendment of the Social Democratic Party. I would say that we have studied this amendment very carefully and we are focusing in particular on the constitutional practice already adopted in Slovenia. The Constitutional Court, at the initiative of the 1994 Police Union, ruled in 1997 that a two-year restriction as a condition for carrying out a detective activity does not constitute an infringement of the constitutional right to work laid down in Article 49 of the Constitution. This is a very important foreplay also for the assessment that we are currently talking about. In order to assess whether to include such types of conditions is of the utmost importance, or not to introduce discriminatory provisions by including conditions, as said by colleague Barovic. The Court then decided that the two-year condition did not constitute discrimination, but the Court considered very carefully the exact circumstances of this two-year condition. It has explicitly said that it is possible to restrict the constitutional right to work only if it protects the rights of others or of public interest. Therefore, in such a case, a clear provision of Article 49 of the Constitution can be discriminated against. These other rights are: rights to privacy or personal rights under Article 35 of the Constitution and rights to the protection of personal data under Article 38 of the Constitution. In doing so, the Constitutional Court has made a very reasonable distinction to what is today a narrower subject of debate, to what extent or to what extent it is permissible to restrict the constitutional right to freedom of work referred to in Article 49. It explicitly set out there the criteria that the restriction must be in accordance with the principle of proportionality, that such an intervention is appropriate to achieve a constitutionally permissible legislative objective of restriction, that it is necessary to achieve such a objective by a lesser means and that it is proportionate to the weight of one and of another constitutional right. This is therefore a question of how to protect the rights of others in terms of the protection of personal data or in terms of privacy and other personal rights. In fact, it is a matter of whether a two-year time limit is sufficient to allow data and contacts from former authorised officials of the intelligence and police services to become obsolete, in terms of their usefulness, meaning that they become uninterested and that the data carriers are not privileged in this sense. The Constitutional Court has therefore held that it is precisely a two-year period which it is considered that the privileges of members of former intelligence services no longer exist, since these data are therefore unusable because the contacts are outdated and it is no longer possible to carry out activities on this basis. Therefore, the applicant has decided, following the definition of a Constitutional Court, for this particular two-year period, which, according to our assessment, is a constitutionally permissible, discriminatory condition. Of course, it is for these reasons that we do not consider it advisable to extend that period. The reason is given in the explanation of the Constitutional Court. We do not see in the already adopted position of the Constitutional Court arguments that this period should be extended from two years, for example, to five years, as proposed in the amendment of the Social Democratic Party. However, the second issue is to exclude from the admissibility of such an activity personnel who performed this activity 12 years ago, and several years ago, it is said that before 15.5.1990. In those criteria of admissible discrimination against constitutional freedom, the constitutional principle of freedom of work, there is certainly no basis for anyone to make useful use of data from 12 years ago. We therefore do not believe that such an amendment to the law can be supported from this point of view. There are also some other questions raised by colleague Kangler. The use of knowledge acquired by someone during this period or at State expense. This is an argument that should be assessed, but not in this legislation, but in labour law and perhaps in social legislation. It also raises a very practical question as to whether the people who have done this activity so far and are not doing it today are still interested in such an activity after 12 years. We didn't go down on that. However, the fact is that if such an amendment were to be adopted, it would be necessary to legally resolve the question of whether such an intervention would also apply back, which means, for people who have already obtained such rights under different legal conditions, under the 1994 law. Under the general constitutional principle of the prohibition of retroactivity or interference with these rights, it would probably be difficult to find a basis for repealing these backward statuses, which would also raise the question of the practicality of the people already engaged in this activity, whether such an arrangement makes any sense only for those who would like to reopen this activity. I would also like to add that the basic intent of the law is to enforce the legal basis for carrying out the detective activity as an economic activity, as a completely entrepreneurial activity, of course, with certain specifics. As a result, this type of entrepreneurship is also regulated by a specific law, but mainly as an entrepreneurial activity. Let me say that data over the last period show that the growing percentage of those who carry out this activity is from the former retired members of the security and intelligence services. Each year this percentage is lower and more and more is decided on this activity by young people, new people who have matured in the security profession or in the context of obtaining such education or perhaps with a few minor internships in the police or in the security services. Otherwise, the former police officer in the countries to which we want to compare himself goes into private detective activity. And that means, in fact, a pretty common continuation of his career. For these reasons, we believe that it would be appropriate to stay on the proposal of the proposer and not extend that period. I believe that there is no reason to exclude those who carried out this activity 12 years ago. At least there is no reason to restrict discrimination against freedom of work under Article 49 of the Constitution. The applicant did not, however, go into assessing any other political or similar reasons, which is considered not to be the basis for this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Within the time available, first word to Mr Barovic, then to Mr Jerovšk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u47	Thank you very much. I'll be saved in time, given the really funny rules of procedure. Let's let it go. Look, Mr. Minister, in the event of the right to restrict or mention the right to work, if we are honest, then the amendment made by the Social Democratic Party - let's leave it to the party which gave it - of course is fully justified. The point I wanted to say, and perhaps to give it some thought, is why this discriminatory legal right at all, says here, "for the sake of the right to privacy and personal rights and the right to the protection of personal data". So today, as a member of the Ministry of the Interior or the police for two years, I can't get a license to be a detective, so that I don't get, I don't know, some data, as I understand right here, for the protection of the rights of others or of the public interest. But after two years, I'll get that information. My character is exactly the same. I'm not gonna be any better or worse, either after two or after their proposal, I don't know, after 10 or 12 years or after 7 years. That is why I am adhering to this article, Mr Minister, and perhaps I am thinking, although I know that this moment is not exactly too late to table an amendment, even though this discriminatory principle is, as stated in the Government's explanation, an example of legal limitation. I do not think that such a legal restriction is fair and unfair, at least after the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek, please. Then Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I cannot agree with most of the reasons stated here by Mr Minister and also Mr Potrč. Above all, the information, as Mr Minister said, is not usable after two years. Look, we're in a delicate pre-election time now. Before each election of this government, the most powerful LDS parties and the United List of Social Democrats are engaged by an informant well equipped with personal data that is effectively launched and used to discredit certain political competitors or customers. I'm telling you, there's no media murder, no media lynching, especially in pre-election time, there's no one standing with whom they even lead to intelligence. When the fog clears, when this spider is removed after several years, it can be seen that they were always the same. If we do, say, discredit a human party by not paying her client. They didn't even lead intelligence everywhere. And, of course, you're not interested because it interferes with your pre-election technology, it's very disruptive. These methods could no longer be used, they could no longer use relatively fresh data. That's why you're not interested. And also, Mr. Minister, I'm surprised that you're not an argument on our grounds of marriage, parallels See, the law on judicial service says that if someone violated human rights, they can't run. [[…]] Intelligence has mostly abused and violated human rights. There are, of course, some informers on assignment, but there are such reasons. We should be principled in this country. For this reason, to show at a symbolic level that such methods should not be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u51	The professional reasons for excluding any of Europe's detective activities are unknown. There are no such discriminatory practices in the Member States of the European Union. This brings me to the position of colleague Barovic, who also questions this two-year arrangement. It is true, however, that most of the so-called transition countries have similar provisions, that is, the Central and Eastern European countries, but most do not have professional police reasons to count data retention or the gradual decline in data usage. Here, with my respectable colleague Jerovsk, I agree to some extent that the issue of the statute of limitations of this data is a very relative matter. The reason why we have included this two-year period is exclusively the Court of Justice, which has already been defined on this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u52	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Only the Slovenian National Party has 7 minutes at its disposal. Unfortunately, the parliamentary group has notified 10 minutes and this time you have exhausted, Mr Jerovšek. This is not a replica, Mr Jerovšek. Anybody else want some? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. The assembly will vote on the amendment in the next meeting at 20.05 p.m. in the framework of the vote of the assembly. So I interrupt this agenda item and we move on to 4. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law on the love of Members in the European Parliament from the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u53	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In front of you is the Law on the Election of Members to the European Parliament, which sets out the manner of election, candidature, electoral system, all related to the election of our seven representatives to the European Parliament at the 2004 elections. Now that the Irish referendum has been adopted, we can claim with great confidence that this is the case for seven cities and for 2004. The functions of the European Parliament are, as you know, co-decision with the Council of the European Union has considerable powers in the adoption of the budget; it is also parliamentary democratic control over the work of other institutions. The powers of the European Parliament are being strengthened, increased, and there are also ideas for it to grow into a classic Parliament. There are also ideas for Parliament to become a body, or the only body, where political parties from all Member States meet. As you know, the electoral system proposed by our law is based on the experience and practice of the Member States of the European Union, as well as on the so-called Brussels Act, which provides for direct elections of representatives to Parliament. However, this Brussels Act does not provide for an electoral system. However, all Member States have switched to a proportional electoral system by having different modalities regarding the number of electoral units, the preferred vote and the like. It is also prepared in Brussels for an act on the unification of the electoral system, which has not yet been adopted, but this act, which we followed in the preparation of our law, is followed by a proportional system. The proposed solutions - just to summarize very briefly - are the following: the electoral system is a proportional system of Dont's mandate-sharing system, the possibility of a preferential vote, which is not absolutely valid. Why d'Mondt's system? This system would be supported by expert groups and also by all coalition parties. This is already known in Slovenia and is also the most used in Europe, a sort of classical method of calculating mandates. It is used, as you know, in elections to the National Assembly and to the Municipal Councils. We have carried out calculations that have shown that in a small number of mandates, such as seven, other electoral systems, such as: The drop coefficient or imperial coefficient would not have produced significantly different results, except in the case of a very, very large advantage of one party. With regard to candidates, the law provides for a solution to be proposed by one political party, four Members or a thousand signatures, and six Members or 1,500 signatures, if supported by two political parties, and 3,000 voters. As far as the position of the MEP is concerned, all restrictions and incompatibilities applicable to a member of the national assembly shall apply. The additional restrictions that we are proposing are to exclude this from the position of mayor, including with the non-professional function of mayor, and is also excluded from the position of MP in the National Assembly. The salaries and compensations of the MEP shall be governed by a specific act of the European Parliament, which is in preparation and therefore is not subject to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u54	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Committee member, Mr Mark Diacia, to present the Committee's report. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u55	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting to all present. At its 25th regular session, held on 2.10.2002, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered a proposal for a law on parliamentary elections to the European Parliament from the Republic of Slovenia submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for second reading. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the National Assembly on European Affairs and the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on the political system and amendments of the LDS Group Members, the United List of Social Democrats, the SLS and DeSUS to the title, and on 3, 12 and 25. the Article of the proposal for a law. In its supplementary explanation, the representative stressed that the draft law had already been addressed to the Commission of the National Assembly on European Affairs as an interested working body and to the Commission of the Council of State for a political system, which they also supported. The representative also agreed and supported the amendments of the LDS, the United List of Social Democrats, SLS and DeSUS to the title and Articles 3, 12 and 25 of the bill. The Committee then moved to a debate and a vote on the amendments tabled by the parliamentary groups to the title and to Articles 3, 12 and 25 of the bill and adopted them. After the discussion and the vote on the amendments, the Committee adopted all the articles of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, he will present the opinion of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats, Mr Miran Potrč. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We fully support the law in the United Nations Social Democrats Group. We believe that, with regard to the solutions proposed in the law, it is right to stress the following in particular. The functions of the MEP in the European Parliament and in the National Assembly are not compatible. This is important because both tasks require full engagement. The 90-member National Assembly would hardly miss the continued presence and activity of its seven members on other tasks in the European Parliament. With regard to the position of a Member, as regards the acquisition and termination of a Member's mandate, as regards the irreconcilability of the function, as regards the Member's immunity, and as regards the material and other conditions between the term of office and the end of the term of office, Members of the European Parliament shall be entitled to the rights conferred by the Members of the National Assembly. Members of the European Parliament will then share the fate and situation and the possibilities and assessments of appropriateness in Slovenia, which, depending on their desire to consolidate their position and reputation, as well as their equal place compared to other functions in Slovenia, is appropriate and appropriate. The electoral system allows for a party and, what I would like to stress in particular, also a personal competition, as Slovenia is one constituency. The candidate list may be proposed by the parties as well as by the electorate. In particular, voters have the right to give their preferred vote to the candidates on the candidate list for which they vote, and thus have an important impact on the personal choice of the candidates proposed. The Law on the Elections of Members to the European Parliament and Members of the United List of Social Democrats are also pleased to support us because, after the successful referendum in Ireland on Saturday, we are now increasingly approaching the time when we will become equal and full members of the European Union of States responsible for our own and the common destiny of Europe. We want the European Parliament to strengthen its role and responsibility in a united Europe under the new conditions of its institutions. This would also strengthen democratic decision-making and the impact of citizens and citizens in the European Union. That is why the adoption of legislation, which is expected to enable us to have European Parliamentarian elections in 2004, is so important and therefore we support the adoption of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u58	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of the Social Democratic Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Rudolf Petan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thanks for the short word, and I'll be right here. I think there's been a lot of talk about this marriage. He's not one of those controversial laws. I would say that we will support this law in the Socialist Party's parliamentary group. We are convinced that, after the Irish referendum Saturday, this law is not only necessary, but is also necessary, because the obvious enlargement will be and it is obvious that Slovenia will be in this round of countries that will be able and will have the opportunity to become members of the European Union. We support this content. Some of the solutions we particularly like are the preferred voice that we have been taking in the party for some time. However, it is right that we also resolve the whole matter legally, because the elections are likely to be sooner than we may have imagined. We also agree with the incompatibilities solutions proposed in this law, so that we will support this law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam Vice President, Mr Minister! This law was very, very little said about in the National Assembly, but it is a very important law. There was no Member of Parliament on the working body. Whenever laws are adopted that determine the functioning of representative democracy - and parliaments are the most authentic place of representative democracy - it is very important that we discuss content. It is a matter of the legitimacy of the institutions. Here it is very important what powers the European Parliament has and, above all, how elections are held in the European Parliament. True, we look forward to the last decision made by the Irish. This means that in two years' time, our citizens and citizens will already be elected by the elections, most likely by 7 parliamentarians for the European Parliament. The solutions to the electoral system are somewhat different across countries, as the minister has already said. For example, on a regional basis, they are based in the United Kingdom, Italy, Belgium, on a national basis, therefore, as one unit, they are in France, Spain and Denmark, and there is a mixed combination in Germany. Although Slovenia is not a large country, it is a solution in the law that Slovenia has one constituency. Article 13 refers to the principle of preferential vote and states the following: Preferential votes for individual candidates shall be taken into account if the number of preferred votes of each candidate exceeds the number calculated by dividing the number of votes cast per list by the number of candidates twice the number of candidates on the list. We've been doing some calculations. Despite this provision, which we strongly support, we fear that in the end we may have a majority decision by our electorate and electorate that a large majority of European parliamentarians will be at home from the Ljubljana electoral pool. Ljubljana and its wider surroundings. Unfortunately, despite this provision. The second provision, which is very important and determines the work of the European Parliament, is its political organisation. It may not be known that European parliamentarians are not classical representatives of national interests or of the countries from which they come. Of course they are. They are fundamentally organised through party affiliation. Through party membership. In other words, political groups in the European Parliament have tremendous power. It's an extraordinary power. I have before me a review of their organization. And the rules are interesting. The political group cannot be set up, for example, by Members from just one country. It has to be from several countries and there is a limited figure on how a political group can be established. It is true, however, that about 5 per cent of the 626 Members, according to the latest figures, have been reprinted from their data today and there are 32 so-called undecided or independent euro MPs. This question seems important to me because I think that Article 14 speaks about the possibility for political parties and voters to propose candidates for Members. It is right, of course, that we allow directly candidates to be proposed by voters. However, the question arises, which is also a question of conviction, whether someone who is not a member of a political group and who does not later want to be included in one of the political groups that operates in the European Parliament, how he can function and will also successfully represent the interests of those who will be elected to the European Parliament. The law also speaks, of course, of the fact that all that is applicable to the current law on Members of the National Assembly is also applicable to Members of the European Parliament. All the pros and cons, all the delusions and pros and cons that apply to the status of Members of the National Assembly, all of which will be passed on to those who will be elected to the European Parliament. I'm talking about pluses and minuses. And there's a lot of negatives. A few more sins await us to settle some issues ahead of several mandates. In the parliamentary group, we will support the law on parliamentary elections to the European Parliament. We hope and wish that the Convention, the debate under the Convention, will find solutions such as to increase the status of the European Parliament and that relations between the European Parliament and the national Parliament will be such that national parliaments do not lose their powers in relation to the European Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mr Dusan Vukko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u63	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, Secretary of State, Colleagues and colleagues! At the referendum last Saturday, the Irish voters supported the Treaty of Nice as a fundamental document for the implementation of the enlargement of the European Union, thus removing one of the main obstacles to the conclusion of the historic process, which is expected to bring ten new countries together in 2004, including Slovenia. The doors to enlargement are now open and there are no more political obstacles to it. In Slovenia, the European Union is expected to allow the conclusion of accession negotiations to the December European Union summit in Copenhagen and the realisation of the European Union's historic enlargement project in the envisaged timeframes by 2004. To be prepared to join the European Union in 2004, we must, of course, adapt and adapt to the institutional structure of the European Union, including the choice of Members representing the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament. The last European Parliament elections were in 1999, as we all know, and will be next in 2004. Slovenia is expected to become a full member of the European Union by then. The draft law governs the principles of regulation and cooperation of Members from the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament. In accordance with the Treaty of Nice, Slovenia will have the right to seven Members. The number of Members to be elected will, of course, be determined to a certain extent by the choice of the electoral system. At the same time, it must be said that the choice of the electoral system is left to each member. With this number in mind, the billmaker built a classic proportional electoral system called d'Hondt's formula. The applicant has taken this into account and has sent a law that is comparable - this should be stressed - with the majority of the laws in the Member States of the European Union. Within each candidate list, there is a possibility of a preferential vote. In view of the number of Members to be elected, for these elections, the Republic of Slovenia is one constituency. For this reason, there is no need to set a specific electoral threshold. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports such a draft law, in particular the provisions of the draft law, which allow for the direct impact of voters on the election of Members or which impose a preferential vote. In this part of the bill follows the amendments to the Local Elections Act, which the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, together with coalition partners, adopted in this year for the upcoming local elections, with a view to increasing the impact of voter votes on the election of a certain candidate for municipal councillor. With these changes, we have changed the minimum number of voters needed to change the order of the candidate list to a quarter of the percentage of voters who voted in favour of the list. The draft law before us is even more appropriate for this purpose, since it does not set two thresholds for the consideration of the preferential vote, but provides that the preferred votes for individual candidates shall be taken into account if the number of votes counted by each candidate exceeds the number of votes counted by dividing the number of votes cast by the list by a double the number of candidates on the list. Thus, according to our assessment, appropriate distribution of votes is possible for individual candidates and candidates. For all these reasons, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia supports and will support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u64	Thank you very much. The opinion of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by Mr Bogdan Barovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u65	Thank you very much, Madam President, colleagues and colleagues! Not only is it because it is known that the Slovenian national party is a Euro-realist or, if you want, a Euro-sceptic party. Of course, there are a number of other things that I will say at the beginning, in the Slovenian National Party of this Act, despite the very same vocabulary so far, we will not support all of you representatives. And let me say a few more reasons, very concrete and precise, why. For the first time - the Amsterdam Treaty has already begun to speak and to think about it, these are things that, thank God, I know a little bit more than the Vice-President of the European Affairs Commission, and I have taken these things very seriously to align all Members of the European Parliament under certain conditions. But these conditions, of course, also apply to laws, various laws, such as this electoral law. But let's just leave it. Secondly - in Article 10 there is a second paragraph, which of course is very disturbing to the Slovenian National Party and you will say that it is, perhaps you will tell me my words with a little earlier, about discrimination. However, the right to vote and be elected a Member of the European Parliament shall also be exercised by a national of another Member State of the European Union who has permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia, provided that he has not been deprived of the right to vote and that he has been entered into the register of voting rights. Think a little bit about what this looks like and we're talking about the electoral rights that this citizen has, say, as a citizen of the Republic of Italy or Austria, it doesn't matter. And he will be elected as European Parliamentary in the European Parliament on behalf of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. And last but not least, the basic reason why we oppose this law is this; regardless of the size of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, regardless of the gross social product data and all the data that are, of course, the basis of the treatment before the Association Treaty, if we are already so proud of all of this, I do not know how you can be so excited about this law, but when it is still known and clear to us, let us leave whether these are legal terms or not that we will have only, just seven Members, which is less than one percent of Members in the European Parliament. I don't know why this country doesn't once choose all the rights that go out of its efforts to join the European Union. I was at my last meeting a few days ago, and I have the latest data. In fact, the figures show the most visible progress of the State of the Republic of Slovenia, but this country and the negotiating group, at least in some cases, do nothing. We in Slovenia estimate that the percentage or determination of 7 Slovenians in the European Parliament between just over 700, so once again I stress that it is less than 1% that we should choose here, regardless of all other provisions and rules based on the Brussels talks, on the basis of the Amsterdam Declaration, we should choose at least 9 or more Members. Therefore, because of this, and because of a lot of other things to talk about, but there will be an opportunity, the Slovenian National Party will not support the law on parliamentary elections to the European Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Opinion of the New Slovenia Group, presented to us by Mrs Majda Zupan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Slovenia is to become a member of the European Union in 2004, when the elections to the European Parliament will also take place. After the success of the referendum in Ireland, this is much closer to us. The right to vote will be the same as for the Slovenian elections, except that there is a restriction that a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who does not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia and exercises an electoral right for the election of MEPs in another country cannot exercise this right for the election of MEPs from Slovenia. The voting system is proportional. There is a vote on the candidate list and Slovenia is one constituency. The voter can only vote for one list of candidates and has a preferred vote. The division of mandates shall take place at national level. Candidates who have obtained the largest number of preferential votes have been elected. We are aware of the importance of this law in our parliamentary group. We support the draft law, as well as the amendment, especially the title to be amended and enacted by the law on elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, which we think is more appropriate. We also support other amendments and I do not think that the adoption of this law alone will be a problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u68	Thank you. We have heard the position of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal of the law, it is not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the draft law will be carried out on Friday, 25.10.2002. I hereby terminate this item of the agenda and at 12.20 p.m. we will continue the consideration of item 5 of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u69	We're moving to Treatment 5. Agenda items - Second Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Nationality of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister of the Interior, Dr. Rado Bohinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u70	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's the second reading of the novel of the citizenship law. As already defined in the first reading, there are three areas of innovation: the first area concerns simplification of procedures for obtaining citizenship; the second area concerns additional legal measures to prevent abuses in relation to the acquisition of citizenship; and the third area relates to compliance with the Council of Europe Convention on Citizenship. Let me just list with a few addresses, which are new in these three areas. With regard to the first area, simplification of the procedure, I would like to state the approval of the conditions for the provision of housing and a more transparent way of determining the knowledge of the Slovenian language in the field of naturalisation. Then we have news about persons born abroad in mixed laws, where at birth one of the parents of Slovenian citizens is born. This is an important extension of the period covered by the right to exercise citizenship at the age of 36 from the age of 23. The additional benefits for obtaining citizenship also apply to nationals who for economic reasons have left Slovenian citizenship. The necessary time to stay in the country is reduced to 6 months from one year to now. Then article 18 is an important novelty. This allows naturalization under facilitated conditions for those who lived in Slovenia on 23.12.1990, in short, on the day of plebiscite, and then did not acquire citizenship even later. It is important for these categories to emphasise that it is a matter of persons, of condition that these people actually live in Slovenia, subject to the additional condition that they master the Slovenian language. In short, for people who have not obtained plebiscite on the day of article 40, we are opening a new option, but the condition is that they actually live in Slovenia. And another novelty in this first set would mention, namely naturalisation for national reasons for children, for minors whose parents have acquired the citizenship of the Republic of Slovenia in the framework of extraordinary naturalisation. This is a novelty proposed by the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party and supported by the proposer. Another newsgroup concerns prevention of abuse. All applicants must have legal status as a foreigner, that's one of the news. Second, they are obliged to make a declaration of acceptance of the Slovenian acquis. The third condition is the settlement of tax liabilities [[This has so far only been the case for applicants who do not have any facilities]] . Furthermore, the regime for obtaining citizenship after extraordinary naturalization has been tightened; the applicant must live in Slovenia for at least a year, but this does not apply to persons of Slovenian origin. The naturalization clause strengthens the condition by compulsory one-year stay of the child in the Republic of Slovenia. And another novelty in this second part of eliminating the conditions for or the possibility of abuse. In the event that naturalisation has been achieved by false statements, the decision on admission to Slovenian citizenship can be repealed at any time and until now this period has been limited to 3 years. The third group of issues concerns compliance with the Council of Europe's Convention on Citizenship. This is about introducing additional groups of applicants with relief. In fact, full-year-olds born in Slovenia, refugees and stateless people. Persons born in Slovenia are prevented from meeting the conditions of dismissal, the sources of subsistence, housing and Slovenian language, and refugees and stateless persons, the length of stay prescribed for other foreigners is reduced from 10 years to 5 years. The proposer suggests that you support the amendments of the Internal Policy Committee [[the warning sign for the end.]] And to uphold the law in another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. The Committee's report should be presented by the Vice-President of the Committee, who is not between us. Since the assembly held its first reading of the draft law at the September meeting, it is not possible to present the views of the parliamentary groups. We are therefore moving on to the debate on Article 3 and the amendment tabled in this article. You also have time notified by individual parliamentary groups: SDS 15 minutes, ZLSD 3 minutes, SLS 5 minutes, NSI 10 minutes, SNS 10 minutes, SMS 5 minutes and government 15 minutes. In the same way as previously explained, I am putting Article 3 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to this Article into consideration. Anybody want a word? Mrs. Zupan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Our Group tabled this amendment to Article 3 to delete point 4 in the new fourth paragraph, which speaks if a person is over 60 and actually lives in Slovenia for 15 years. We wanted to point out that there was no guarantee that a person over the age of 60 who actually lives in Slovenia for 15 years could speak Slovenian for the purposes of everyday communication. In practice, we have often been able to meet people, especially from the southern republics, who have lived with us for 30, 40 years, and not in everyday life, in Slovenian. Perhaps because they were not given the opportunity to take the exam or in any other way have the opportunity to get a closer look at the Slovenian language. In addition, we believe that such persons are also in a privileged position, regardless of age, compared to other persons who are required to submit a certificate of successful examination of Slovenian knowledge upon application for naturalisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 3 and the amendment to this Article? Because no, I'm closing the debate. The assembly will hold a vote on this amendment in the next meeting at 20.05 p.m. in the framework of the votes of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. At 1:30 a.m., the assembly will move on to the 6th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on fair procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u74	Colleagues and colleagues! We are proceeding with a meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to six. Agenda item — Second defence of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on fair procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government to explain or supplement the bill. You have 5 minutes. You have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u75	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! Since the law was not specifically dealt with at first reading, except under the provisions of the new Rules of Procedure, I would like to briefly state the reasons behind the proposal that led the applicant to propose amendments and amendments to the Justice Procedure Act adopted in 1999. As a basic system law in the field of civil justice, this procedure has been duly regulated. At the time of the adoption of the law, however, the issue of providing greater opportunities for a peaceful settlement of disputes or alternative settlement of disputes was not definitively resolved. At the time of the entry into force of the law, it has matured the decision to regulate the possibility of a peaceful settlement of disputes in particular in all the rules governing judicial proceedings. For example, it is already regulated by the Criminal Procedure Act. This is now to be regulated by the law on fair procedure and will be similarly regulated by the law on proceedings before the labour and social courts. The new law introduces a new institution, a settlement order whereby the court will be obliged to, together with the parties, except in cases specific to it, be exceptional, so that, together with the parties, the possibility of a peaceful settlement of the dispute can be examined. In addition, the Court will have the opportunity to propose that the parties terminate the proceedings and wait with them until the parties try to resolve the dispute peacefully before the body or institution chosen by the parties themselves. In addition, the Institute, which has been thoroughly divided and where the cost and other procedural consequences for those who did not participate, has also taken into account in the proposal for a law the desire to improve the efficiency of some other institutions and to remedy some of the shortcomings that have emerged in the implementation of the law. In particular, it will be important for practice to amend the after-service provisions so as to allow for service similar to that regulated by the General Administrative Procedure Act, so that the service remains two-phase, that is to say first by inviting the addressee to be present at the place where it is to be served or, at the second stage, to leave the consignment at the post office or to notify the addressee where it can raise it and thus consider the service to be carried out. We therefore expect that this problem, which is still large in practice, will be definitively resolved and that the responsibility for receiving shipments will be transferred to the addressee, who must also, in accordance with the title that he has declared, ensure that he takes over these shipments. Other changes also focus mainly on improving the effectiveness of the procedure. In this respect, in particular, amendments to the appeal procedure, which should allow to a greater extent for the judicial proceedings to be concluded on one way through the courts. Furthermore, amendments to the legislative initiative of the Supreme Court relating to labour disputes. Then the amendments relating to the procedure for the review by the State Prosecutor and others which are evident from the material report on the correction of deficiencies. We expect that a novel that is not extensive, which represents a smaller novel, but removes and corrects what needs to be corrected and complemented, will contribute to the greater effectiveness of fair procedures and we therefore propose that the National Assembly adopt legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u76	Thank you, Secretary of State, Mr Hinku Jenul, for the opening statement. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Committee rapporteur, Mr Leopold Kremjar, to present the Committee's position or report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Respectable. The Committee has considered the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law. He also listened to the legislative legal service, representatives of the legal information centre of NGOs, including representatives of the Slovenian Judicial Society and the Bar Association. It has received and considered the conclusions of the Committee on Petitions of the State and the opinion of the Commission of the Council of State on the political system. At the same time, he adopted the amendment of the four parliamentary groups to Article 29 and, as his amendments, as it is written down, therefore proposes to adopt this proposal for amendments to the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u78	Thank you to the rapporteur of the Internal Policy Committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give my word to Mr Rudolph Petan as the position of the SDS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Respectable. As the government representative has already mentioned, in this case it is a matter of amendment, which, in the last proposed amendment to the law in 1999, has not yet been fixed and, as such, has not been established and could not be implemented in practice. This is obviously an attempt, for a more efficient judiciary and a rounding up of all possibilities, i.e. the possibility of a solution in some process. In the Social Democratic Party, we welcome any attempt to contribute to the reduction of judicial backlogs and, of course, at the same time, the decommissioning of the court, which, of course, can be two things, does not necessarily have to be linked in one case. In this light, we are also looking at a greater emphasis on alternative dispute resolution, which is ways to resolve the dispute without the court's intervention or at least without the court's judgment. Therefore, all the activities of the Court aimed at concluding a judicial settlement are one of the ways to reduce judicial backlogs. If we compare arrangements in other countries, we see that they are more aware of the importance of out-of-court dispute resolution because they offer solutions that are more acceptable by content because they provide solutions that are simply not possible by judgment. The applicant is clearly aware of this, as is evident from the explanation of the bill. This new solution, which it offers, is a special settlement claim which is intended primarily to test the possibility of a judicial settlement. It is also comparatively legal for novelty, which has not yet been established as other forms of alternative dispute resolution such as. settlement, mediation, arbitration and the like. On the other hand, it must be acknowledged that the lack of such practical experience with these forms of alternative dispute resolution may also, I do not know, threaten its application. However, it is necessary to consider the proposed solution as one of the attempts that will contribute to the greater burden and operationality of the courts. We accept and also repeat the warning issued by the Commission on the political system of the State Council, namely that an effective mechanism to enforce the responsibility of those who delay individual proceedings will also contribute to the speeding up of judicial proceedings. However, the development of an appropriate system of external control over the working courts is of course essential in order to be able to identify the real causes of individual judicial backlogs. Now we listen to certain excuses that just repeat themselves, or, I don't know, maybe I'll use a little harsh expression, make up always new ones, that we don't actually say the real reason, we don't say the essence. Such control would in no way affect the autonomous judiciary, since such control would not refer to the content of the decision, but rather to the priority of dealing with individual cases where the criteria are completely undefined. In the Social Democratic Party, we believe that this is a certain attempt to even round up certain things in this area, give them legal validity, legal weight, and perhaps even in this way make our judiciary more effective. We are sure that this is not all we can do, but in our view this is the right attempt and that is why we will support it in the Social Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you for your position and I give my word to Mr Villa Trofenik for the position of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present. In our parliamentary group, we believe that alternative dispute resolution is one of the options for reducing the burden of the courts and increasing their effectiveness. We therefore support the establishment of a proposed system where citizens who are not satisfied with a particular decision or action or omission will have wide opportunities. Data must, of course, be the possibility of resolving the dispute in an out-of-court settlement, as well as within the judicial procedure. It is important that citizens get to know all the different existing options and therefore have the opportunity to choose the most appropriate solution or decision for themselves. Often, judgment is not the most effective and appropriate means to resolve a dispute. However, alternative solutions will, of course, also have to be made effective and attractive, as the introduction of alternative solutions does not in itself provide the corresponding expected results. The re-introduction of the so-called draft order seems to make sense, as we can expect positive results with the proper functioning of the judge. Given the fact that the question arises as to the extent to which judges are able to successfully execute such claims, this should in particular be an incentive for intensive training in the field of procedural management. We are convinced that by means of stronger trial leadership or more active participation by judges, of course, taking into account the rights of the parties, we can make an important contribution to reducing the justice or efficiency of the courts. Therefore, the other amendments introduced by the law in question are also supported, with the expectation that they will produce positive results mainly with regard to the effectiveness of the judicial system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you, Mr. Trophynik. The position of the Slovenian National Party would be followed, but Mr Sašo Peče is announced and is not present. That is why I will give the floor to Mrs Maja Zupan of New Slovenia for the views of the parliamentary group or party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. The amendment of the law on fair procedure is mainly aimed at promoting peaceful resolution of disputes, which we always welcome in our parliamentary group and the party, because we feel that we are over-appealing the Slovenians and thereby creating new disputes. In the proposal, a special settlement order shall be added, which shall be binding, unless the parties have previously failed to negotiate for a peaceful settlement or the court considers that there is no possibility of a settlement or that it would not be appropriate to resolve the dispute. However, in order to achieve as many settlements as possible, the law prescribes the party's personal participation in the settlement contract and, in the case of an authorising officer, it must have the power with the possibility of an unlimited settlement right. The consent of the parties is extremely important, as it is necessary to repeat the settlement order or to terminate the judicial procedure if they wish to resolve the disputes alternatively. [[?]] . The settlement shall be possible throughout the procedure and shall be extended to the extent and by the number of persons who are not parties to the procedure. The role of the judge is more active as he is obliged to discuss the factual and legal aspects with the parties. He is obliged to endeavour to conclude a settlement, even more so, the provisions give him the right to draw up even a written settlement proposal and send it to the party for signature. It must be admitted that such a attitude is more accessible, closer to people and more friendly, and that it promotes positive feelings in people as well. However, a so-called penalty is also imposed for that party who does not take part in the settlement contract, as the counterparty must reimburse the costs. Another important novelty is to address service shortages. The notification will no longer be possible to leave it with a friendly neighbor, but he will have to leave it at the door of the apartment or in another appropriate way. Otherwise, only two attempts and not indefinitely, as we have been trained many times, will be possible in personal service. However, we fear that in practice this will not be the easiest to achieve. However, it is necessary to try. However, it is also possible to compensate the service for the most important matters. This should ensure an effective right to judicial protection without undue delay, without prejudice to the right of the counterparty to a contradictory proceeding. In this regard, however, the state prosecutor’s statement is hereby dismissed because his intervention should not be necessary. The amendment amends some other provisions in the law that in practice cause problems and reduce the effectiveness of the procedure. In this way, they should also avoid doubting the decision on provisional orders in disputes between parents and children, in legal disputes and in legal proceedings against provisional orders issued. An important novelty is also regarding the failure to pay a court fee or the failure to provide evidence of its payment. The use of information technology is being reintroduced. The legal instruction regarding the reasoned response to the action is explicitly regulated and there is still a whole range of other provisions. All these changes should also allow for the abolition of judicial backlogs and thus improve the negotiating bases for Slovenia's accession to the European Union, which our party strongly supports and in this regard supports the amendment and amendment of the law on fair procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u84	Thank you for your position. These were the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal of the law, it is also not possible to discuss the articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the bill will be carried out on Friday, 25.10.2002. I'm breaking the sixth point of the agenda. At 2 p.m. we continue work at 7 p.m. Until then, two minutes off.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u85	Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representative of the government! We're moving to seven. Agenda item - Second defence of the proposal for a law on cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the international criminal court. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, to the Secretary of State, to Mr Hink Jenul, to further explain the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! In short, I would like to say that the law before you allows the Republic of Slovenia, as a founding member of an international criminal court, to exercise full powers in relation to cooperation with this court. The International Criminal Court was established by the adoption of a statute ratified by 66 countries and entered into force on 1 July this year, and the law on ratification was adopted by Slovenia without any discussion since last November and thus has become a member of the founding members who will be able to propose its judges, prosecutors and other officials. Such a proposal for a candidate for a judge of this court is already included in this meeting of the national assembly. Exploiting the relatively broad possibilities for prosecution of criminal offences, for which it is a truly competent court, is genocide, crime against humanity, war of crime and after the relevant provision has been made, including aggression, depends in particular on the willingness of countries to allow the operation of the court, with this willingness reflected in the ratification of the Rome Statute, which Slovenia has already done, and then in adopting and adapting domestic legislation, which Slovenia will do with the adoption of the proposed law. The existing legislation does not allow full cooperation with the court and the Republic of Slovenia must fulfil the obligation it has accepted by signing the Statute to ensure that all necessary assistance is provided to the court in the investigation and prosecution of crimes to the fullest extent and without reservation. The draft law thus stems from the obligation of our country to adopt implementing rules that will enable the court to function effectively and to link the competent domestic authorities to the courts in an appropriate manner. The solutions proposed provide this by specifying the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia to cooperate with the Court, determining the State authorities responsible for individual cases, their relations and the relationship of those authorities with regard to the Court. The acceptance of the jurisdiction of the court is defined in the law in accordance with the original principle of complementarity, which means the determination of the jurisdiction of the domestic court and the jurisdiction of the international court in the event that the prosecution of acts before a domestic court is not possible or does not wish to be carried out by the State, by regulating the procedure for the seizure of liberty of the accused at the request of the court for his arrest, by bringing other requests for cooperation in relation to the actual and legal assistance in the work of the court and, finally, for the confiscation of unlawfully acquired property benefits and for the execution of a financial penalty. In order to enable Slovenia to cooperate with the court, the Government proposes that you adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you for the extra presentation. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Committee member, Mr Anton Butolen, to present the Committee's report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u88	Thank you for your word. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the government! The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy considered that law at its 25th regular session on 2 October 2002. At this meeting, he addressed the proposal for a law on cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Criminal Court. The Rome Statute, by which the International Criminal Court was established, lays down the jurisdiction of the court, the authorities of the court, the procedure and the proposed law only means its alignment with our legal order. The Legislative and Legal Service drew attention to some internal disagreements that had been removed by the amendments of the SLS Group of Members to the first, second, sixth, seventh, eighth, to the title of Chapter 5, on Articles 22, 23, 25 and 26. Without discussion, the Internal Policy Committee adopted all the amendments of the SLS Group to that Article, as well as all the articles of the legislative proposal. Thus, the Committee has set out the text of the amended proposal for a law and is proposing to the National Assembly that it be adopted in that form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give my word to Mr Aurelius Yuri for the position of the United List of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you, President, colleagues and colleagues. We support the law on cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Criminal Court in the United Nations Social Democrats Group, of course, and we do not have any specific comments on the content of the members. We will, of course, support those amendments prepared by the mother's working body. We are convinced of the usefulness and urgency of such a court, in its universality, we stress the universality of its character, in the contribution that the founding States, the United Nations, must make to the most developed and, therefore, the most responsible countries and the international community, in its entirety, only its establishment, but also its implementation. Whether it is an institution that complements domestic criminal systems in cases where criminal proceedings for genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and aggression within the country cannot be carried out or carried out effectively and correctly, as stated in the explanatory statement, or as an institution that will act in a warning or, if we wish, in a frightening manner, all holders of the responsibility of military intervention, including in cases of humanitarian or peace operations. We have no such or other operations, unfortunately, to look forward to in the near and distant future. We are convinced that Slovenia must also contribute fully and with full consistency and principle. Therefore, when we express our support for the law, we call on the Government, on behalf of this consistency and principle, on behalf of the mission that the International Criminal Court is establishing, on behalf of the power that this court must be able to gain and enforce on the international political and legal scene, to remove the temptation that we see in some statements by government representatives, following the signing of a bilateral agreement with the United States of America on the recognition of immunity to their citizens before this court, which the United States, as you know, does not recognise. Predicts that we will do the same as the European Union are not appropriate, as the external ministers of this community, at the September session in Brussels, have only allowed such signatures or have only left them to decide for themselves or to sign an agreement with the United States under certain conditions. Slovenia can therefore also choose, so we recommend that the Government choose to sign any agreement that will introduce a distinction or inequality between citizens and citizens of the world before the law and before a court established to protect and enforce it, even if it comes from a country that can be credited with the greatest credit for peace on this planet. This is the only way for us to guide the International Criminal Court on a successful and effective path. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Slovenian Socialist Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. The Law on Cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Criminal Court is a logical consequence of the ratification of the approach to an international criminal court established by the Rome Statute. We also support the adoption of law in the SDS, although we are aware of the seriousness and severity of some of the concerns that arise in the world regarding the application of this court. However, we in Slovenia, together with Europe, must pay particular attention to such an international criminal court as to prosecute crimes, genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and aggression. The experience of Europe and the experience of Slovenia during and after World War II commit us to responsible conduct and responsible cooperation with this international court. We know that criminals who committed crimes during World War II by invaders, fascists and Nazis have not been consistently persecuted, some on Sunday cited the case of Italian crimes - and to this day no crimes have been investigated and prosecuted after the war on behalf of totalitarian authorities and class fighting. In view of such an experience, it is clear that, even in Europe, the attitude towards the persecution of such serious crimes is not naturally ensured and that we must, of course, be interested and consistently respect the provisions of this Rome Statute. We have different cases in Europe and in our country. We in the near past and today find that some of the criminals in the former Yugoslavia who are responsible for the war on the ground of the former Yugoslavia have not yet been persecuted, have not yet come under justice, and sometimes even hesitate to pursue such persecution. At the same time, we know that some countries, when an indirect objective responsibility for certain acts is also identified, are extremely resilient in the political public. I cite the case of the resignation of the Dutch government, which is a positive example given the responsibility of their peacekeeping forces in the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina. Experiences regarding prosecution of crimes and experience with totalitarian authorities are different in Europe than they are across the ocean. The fact is that America has a different, Anglo-Saxon criminal system, that it has a death penalty for such acts, and we must also be realistic, that it has not yet happened on the ground of America to permanently rule the dictatorship, so that it is in some way ensured that criminals, even if there is a period when there was no express willingness to prosecute them to come under criminal jurisdiction in the next period. Once again, we support the law on cooperation with the criminal court and we also hope that the Republic of Slovenia, together with the countries of the European Union, will find appropriate answers to all the dilemmas that arise at this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u93	Thank you, Mr Jerovšek. I give the floor to Mr Janez Podobnik, for the position of the SLS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we assess that the law is well-prepared and we will support it. It is also known that there is a procedure in which certain laws in the field of legislation or both the prosecution and the criminal procedure and the criminal code in which, as a State of Slovenia, we will actually apply certain provisions of the Rome Statute, which are not yet fully enshrined in the Slovenian legal order. For example, chapter 35 of the Penal Code, which lays down crimes against humanity and international law, is still necessary to comply with the provisions of the Rome Statute, which lays down crimes of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. It is also necessary to supplement the relevant provisions of the Criminal Code by complying with the provisions of the Rome Statute which provide for criminal offences against justice alone. And that, I think we'll do. The second case is related to criminal proceedings. However, this is a procedural aspect of the Republic of Slovenia's cooperation with international criminal courts. I would like to recall when the National Assembly ratified the Rome Statute, there was very little debate and no public question was raised on constitutional issues in the ratification of the Rome Statute. For example, an expert who deals with these areas is a mag. Marko Bosnjak says that even though some issues of immunity were relevant, then the issue of handing the accused over to the court and in particular the issue of the prohibition of retrialing on the same matter - one which would have earned a little more attention, since the Rome Statute in Article 27 denies each expressly both substantive and procedural immunity to holders of official functions for crimes under the jurisdiction of an international criminal court. And that's his thought now. [[Quote]] : "If, for example, a member of the National Assembly were to protect the genocide, after the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, he shall not be criminally responsible, and under the Rome Statute he shall be criminally responsible." This is such an interesting thought from his expert opinion. The second question is the prohibition of re-trials in the same matter. Mag. Bosniak believes that the possibility of re-trialing the same thing as the Roman Statute is inconsistent with our constitution. The second topic, which relates to the content itself and the application of the Rome Statute, is the issue that has been raised here briefly, and this is the agreement on the non-transfer of American citizens to the international criminal court. It's an initiative. In our parliamentary group, we estimate that if the Slovenian State signed such an agreement, the government signed it and the National Assembly ratified it, contrary to the Slovenian legal order. It is true, however, that such an agreement would not be disputed if it contained three very important cauldrons or three important foundations. The first is that such an agreement should oblige both States Parties to prosecute those persons who are not to be handed over to an international criminal court, in order to guarantee that the definitions of the principles of criminal liability and criminal offences which are in the actual jurisdiction of an international criminal court are the same or broader as those laid down in the Rome Statute. That's not entirely true for the United States. The other quarters - this should be the one, the agreement should impose upon both States Parties the duty to initiate independent and impartial criminal proceedings against all alleged perpetrators of crimes without delay. Thirdly, if a State Party to an agreement requiring the extradition of its national finds itself unable or unwilling to prosecute it, it should return it to the first State or bring it to an international criminal court. Only with these cavalries would a bilateral agreement with the United States be in accordance with the principle of complementarity of the Rome Statute, under which it is the duty of each State to exercise its criminal jurisdiction against those responsible for international crimes, that is, the sixth preambular paragraph. As has already been said by the Committee, our Group of Members, following some of the positions of the Legal and Legislative Service, has also drawn up some amendments adopted by the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you. I give the floor to Mr Jelk Kacin for the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u96	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia! The adoption of the proposal for a law on cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Criminal Court or the ICC, as is more commonly referred to in the international public, is an important step towards the start of the active functioning of this court for the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. The Republic of Slovenia and its National Assembly contribute to an important and visible share in the mosaic of international efforts for a more humane and more civilized common future. The establishment and concrete work of the ICC will, in the future, undoubtedly reduce the constant and imminent risk of the most serious violations of international war law and thus act preventively. However, the cruelest violence in war is still unstoppable. The preventive role itself is necessary, but it has never been sufficient or sufficient, and ICC must prove its effectiveness in cases of rebuttal specific trials and legal convictions or convictions as soon as possible. Indeed, the consequences of the wars in Southeast Europe are the most compelling case and proof of the need for individual and collective security and the return of basic trust among people who have been victims of war crimes. The consequences of wild wars cannot be eliminated only by regretting crimes, by international assistance, by economic reconstruction or by political promises. At individual level, a sense of security can only be ensured through a comprehensive overcoming of the post-war situation, which must also include punishing those responsible for their crimes against individuals, nations and countries. The fragility of peace and the lack of confidence makes co-existence in Bosnia and Herzegovina difficult, while the multi-annual solidarity of hiding the most responsible criminals from the judgment of the international public hampers the entire state community in its efforts for a better and more tolerant future. As long as there are no accusations and punishments against war criminals, they all return to the unhealed and reopened wounds of the past that burden the present and future of the entire regions. The political crisis and crisis in neighbouring Croatia is a typical and eloquent example of the burden of the past, which remains not only political but also a real present. The Court of Justice in The Hague is the only hope for many victims and their relatives in Southeast Europe, and unfortunately for those responsible, it is still a more nightmare than the real reality and danger. This is by no means just a matter of south-eastern Europe. We are aware that rights and their violations are universal, so we need a permanent judicial institution that can intervene, judge and punish everywhere and whenever necessary. This is also why the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the adoption of the law. In recent times, however, the international and our public have been further upset by the US's efforts to treat their citizens differently before this court. Our responses are principled and often emotional. Our negotiations with the European Union teach us that there are also many legal pitfalls and differences in terms of this already well-known international community, which, as far as very successfully combines two very different legal models and two very different legal practices, the Anglo-Saxon model and the German or Roman model. Among other things, the United States has a very effective system of military justice, which we no longer know in Europe. They also have the death penalty, which we have almost completely abolished in Europe, while the United States, hand in heart, also bears the greatest burden of the greatest military operations and are, in many cases, literally forced to intervene militaryly because there are simply no other possibilities for countless victims. This sensitive and specific case therefore requires a great deal of political prudence and tolerance in seeking solutions or compromises in order not to reject or disable the operation of an international criminal court. The Liberal Democracy of Slovenia therefore supports the search for solutions in dialogue within the Member States and candidates for membership in the European Union and NATO, while respecting the strong will and the need for the international criminal court to act as soon as possible. The call for strong positions and the allegations that the United States is pressuring the Republic of Slovenia are unnecessary and do not reflect the real conditions and partnerships between the Republic of Slovenia and the United States. In the LDS, we believe that a national of every country, including citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, can commit war crimes. We therefore agree on the necessity of harmonisation and support the coordination of our legal order so that we can work successfully with the international criminal court in such cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you for the LDS position. The position of the Slovenian National Party is to be taken. Mr. Sasha Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u98	Your Honors are here! The speaker in front of me mentioned a permanent judicial institution. A permanent judicial institution with all its powers to ensure justice in this world and to punish all the injustices that occur. However, how should we agree on this theory or the fact that it has been expressed by liberal democracy, if it is the representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia that are already in the introductory phrase that they are "blefed" and show them the value of this permanent judiciary when they mention it, and I will quote "the law on the ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court has been adopted without any discussion or objection in its session" and continues. [[...]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Slovenian Government! Don't you know that this National Assembly, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, should be in any mandate, but let's just take the case of the last, since 2000, all ratifications will be accepted without debate and opinions. This is the practice of this National Assembly. And if, in the opening sentence of your proposal, you rely on or talk about a good journey, then I must tell you that everything is a good journey. Not only in the new rules of procedure, we have ratified everything in a series of ways, without debates, without opinions, without opinions and things like that. In short, I find it very inappropriate, very uncultured on your part, to place this sentence in such an important matter as this. The practice of the National Assembly, Slovenian politics, unfortunately, could remind you that in our country they are willing to kneel just before everything and everyone. And that certain matters are not dealt with in this country. However, if we are going to this so-called permanent judicial institution, which will guarantee justice in the world, punish the wicked and the wicked, and leave the rich Americans out of their hunting range, it is important to point out that Slovenia, with the possible adoption of this law, gives out its own elements of sovereignty, what we citizens and citizens have decided upon when it comes to independence. At this point, the moment of the Members' decision, whether or not we will adopt the law, we will hand over our essential elements of autonomy to an international organisation which, according to the speakers before me and in the words or opinions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, is the only fair organization in this world. I'm afraid the facts are different. The fact is that it is just another international organisation that Slovenia worships in exchange for all others to praise us and say so, as the Slovenians have also accepted it. In fact, he's doing something different. It is purely and exclusively in the interests of capital and power. It is equal to the principle followed by the principle of the European Union. Where there's capital, there's justice. In the Slovenian National Party, it seems to us to be a waste of the time of this national assembly, this government, and finally the Slovenian national parties, to discuss this duality, both the Slovenian governments and the judicial system, with the designation of an international judicial system, if these approaches were not based on equality for all citizens or all the people of this world. And maybe just in the end. Where you're talking about the financial consequences of this law, I'll ask you. You estimate in the last paragraph that this law will stand for Slovenia about 15 million a year, which is in any way very negligible, small-scale money, compared to the municipal budget and compared to the loss of the Slovenian government. But inside you say that essentially all 15 million will be paid by one person. Even in this case, with certainty in the Slovenian National Party, we can claim that this is only a matter of – if we miss out on the attractiveness of Slovenian policies to international institutions - the provision of one job, an additional job, in this state administration. A very sad story seems to us that, in the context of such an important story as the International Criminal Court, Slovenia bows down again and becomes humble to all those who ask us to do so. Here too it turns out that Slovenia is not Slovenia and, unfortunately, is ready for every good eyelash on the shoulder to do everything. We will not support the proposal in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you. Igor Štemberger will present the position of the Young Slovenia Party. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Respectable National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues. On 22 November 2001, the Slovenian National Assembly ratified the Rome Statute and thus placed Slovenia where we all want it, in a circle of civilized democratic countries. And we can all be proud of that. It is because all countries have not approached this supranational court in this way. However, they are already doing elsewhere, as the proposaler has already pointed out, that the exploitation of relatively broad possibilities for prosecution of criminal offences, for which a truly competent international criminal court will be responsible, depends, in particular, on the willingness of the State to allow the operation of the court. This willingness is primarily reflected in the ratification of the Rome Statute, and especially in the adoption and adaptation of domestic legislation. In the Republic of Slovenia, existing legislation does not yet allow for full cooperation with the court. However, since we have undertaken, by signing the Statute of the Court, to cooperate fully and without reservation with the Court in the investigation and prosecution of crimes under its jurisdiction, we are today deciding on a proposal for a law on cooperation with this Court. In the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that the law is well written and that it serves its purpose, so we support the proposal, we will vote in favour, as is probably the majority of those present. While we hope that we will never need it in Slovenia, even though the ICC rules, as we like to call them, will become part of our internal law. In the Young Slovenia Party, however, we are concerned about another matter concerning the functioning of the international criminal court and the cooperation with them to the full and without reservation. We are concerned about the possibility that the United States, which has already become a public opponent of this court, would not, because of its selfishness and at the same time, pull Slovenia into acts that would harm the functioning of the ICC, for which we have all so many beautiful words, that is to say, a derogation from the previously mentioned full cooperation and without reservations. I therefore call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the National Assembly not to compromise unfavourably with the United States, because otherwise we are already beginning the credibility of the court and also the credibility and meaning of the law, which we will most likely all support today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u101	Thank you. Also the position of New Slovenia, which will be presented by Mrs Majda Zupan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! On that date, 22.11.2001, our National Assembly adopted a law on the ratification of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court, which included the Republic of Slovenia as the founding members of this Court, which would be able to propose judges, prosecutors and other officials. The first week of September was the meeting of the States Parties, which, on 9th of this month, called on the State Party to nominate candidates for judges and an international prosecutor by 30.11.2002. The Court is expected to operate in the second quarter of the following year when elected judges and international prosecutors are sworn in. The proposal for a law is submitted to the legislative procedure because the legislation in force does not allow for full cooperation with the international criminal court. The national authorities of the Republic of Slovenia which are competent to cooperate with this court have not yet established the jurisdiction of the domestic court to prosecute and prosecute perpetrators of crimes under the jurisdiction of an international criminal court, nor has it been possible to seize the accused's liberty at the request of this court, to arrest him and bring him to an international criminal court, and to seize the unlawfully acquired proceeds of property and to execute a fine under the order of that court. The draft law regulates the duties, conditions and manner of participation of Slovenia with the International Criminal Court, which is the first international court of universal character established by a treaty between countries. His actual jurisdiction is the crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes and aggression. The Court is responsible for this when criminal proceedings cannot be carried out within the State or cannot be carried out effectively and properly. The law took account of the solutions of other countries. The amendments that have been tabled are mainly the result of alerting the law enforcement service that they have achieved internal harmonisation of the text and do not mainly change the content. Our parliamentary group supports the bill's proposal, but we draw attention to a measure of caution, tolerance and a great deal of dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Majda Zupan. The views of the members of the groups were thus expressed. Since no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal of the law, there is also no discussion on individual articles. That is why I am concluding the debate and thus the second reading of the bill. Pursuant to Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the State Assembly will hold a third hearing on the draft law on Friday, 25.10.2002. This concludes this agenda item. I thank the Secretary of State, Mr Jenul, for his cooperation and for all of you. At 2.45 p.m. we continue with the 8th item of the agenda. Until then, a short break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u104	Dear colleagues and colleagues! It's 2:46. It's time to start 8. Agenda items – Second reading of the draft law on the editors of its public interest in culture. The bill has also been tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Minister of Culture, Dr Andrejo Richter, for consideration by the Council. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u105	Welcome, honourable Members, Members of Parliament, President of the National Assembly! I was hoping that we could get a little more together and debate even this afternoon about culture. Nevertheless, Slovenia is ahead of entry into the European Union and this fact underlines the importance of two strategic factors for Slovenia's national future: a successful economy and a developed culture in terms of artistic creativity, living cultural heritage and the national identity of our country. The culture is created by civil society, and the enabling circumstances for it depend largely on the conduct and direction of the State and the local communities. However, these practices and guidelines lay down two basic acts: the Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture and the National Programme of Culture. The first identifies the responsibility and responsibilities of the public authorities to establish the conditions and relations in which culture operates, while the second defines the substantive, strategic objectives and programme emphasis it wants to ensure in the field of culture. The bill is now in the final stage of the second hearing before this well-respected assembly, but I am pleased to inform you that the Ministry of Culture has fulfilled its promise and has prepared a thorough analysis of the cultural situation that will take place by the end of the month, as well as a public debate on the state and development of the culture that we are organising in November this year. The amended proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture offers the following conceptual solutions. The country and the local communities intervene in the area of culture in accordance with the public interest for culture, which is most evident among other things from the State and municipal cultural programmes. The founder of a public institution assumes full responsibility for ensuring the conditions for the operation of the establishment and therefore also the appropriate management influence and gradually ownership. In particular, tendering procedures and public calls are specified; cultural infrastructure is made available to all types of cultural creators under more favourable conditions and, above all, wants to establish financial relations between the State and the municipalities in the field of culture, as there has been a stalemate in the past years and at the same time the current proposal has been agreed by the two associations of municipalities. We believe that the following aims of the law in the third reading text should serve as a guide in deciding on amendments: to raise awareness of the need for an active cultural policy at national and local level and to translate culture into the heart of society and its development, and therefore a proactive cultural policy is expected from municipalities. Make the process of designing and making cultural and political decisions open, cooperative, responsible, successful and non-prescriptive. This is also the five leaders adopted by the European Commission with a White Paper on the European model of governance. In this proposal for a law, this means the appropriate establishment of the National Council for Culture, the Slovenian Cultural Chamber, the Ministry’s expert committees and the management of public institutions by distinguishing and linking the role and scope of the profession and the role and responsibility of the legal authorities. The value points are the responsibility of those who have been given by citizens to set social priorities in elections. Implementation, however, is the responsibility of the autonomous profession, because it alone exercises professional legitimacy and implementing technologies. Update the management and management of public institutions - the government has decided to modernise this culture. Empirical analysis of the 70 public institutions in culture has shown that current solutions in the field of governance and management of public institutions in culture are not effective and do not contribute enough to the successful functioning and development of institutions. We therefore propose new solutions, in particular regarding the supervisory function and autonomy of the institution. Update the working relationship and the employment system, as the proposer, after working with both representative trade unions, has found solutions that are geared simultaneously to cultural excellence, to ensuring the social security of employees in culture and to opening up greater opportunities for independent creators in culture and for generations to come. Start and successfully implement decentralisation in the field of culture with all responsibility, plan, step by step and with guarantees. This process lasted 20 years in Western Europe, aware that it is necessary to maintain national cultural policy as a common platform at the same time. Therefore, the model that we offer not only means greater responsibility for cultural life for the municipalities, but also the commitment of the State to take sides with them by means, by professional power and by other cooperation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. The draft law was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport. I ask Vice-President Petr Levič to present the report. Please, Mr. Vice-President, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. The draft law was considered by the Committee at its 16th regular session on 9 and 10.10.2002. At the meeting, the members of the Committee received a legislative proposal, an opinion from the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, amendments from the LDS Member Club and from the members of the United List of Slovenia, SLS, DeSUS and amendments from Members of the Kelemina, Cimperman, Battelli, Possoncheva, Školča and comments from the Union of Education, Education and Science of Slovenia, comments from the Association of Associations of Blind and Disabled Slovenia, the Cultural Chambers of Slovenia, the Syndicate of Glos and the report of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. All amendments and comments were invited to the meeting. The Committee held a debate on the individual articles, the legislative proposal and the amendments tabled. On behalf of the proposer, Ms Andrej Richter, Minister of Culture, gave an additional explanation. The debate focused on the content of the amendments tabled to the bill and on the basis of amendments. I would like to highlight the discussion in the following articles: in the 20th Article - Chamber of Culture of Slovenia, where we have further defined ways of financing and expanded competences at the professional level of the Chamber of Culture. Specific provisions for management and management shall specify the provisions concerning public authorities. It is also important that a provision is included in the law's supplement which defines the bodies of institutions with less than 20 employees. The Council’s tasks are also defined in more detail. The status of society and other organisations in the public interest in the field of culture defines the functioning and status of cultural societies in which individuals unite. Following the final debate on the amendments and on the articles of the legislative proposal, we have taken into account a number of opinions from the legislative and legal services and additional explanations by the representatives of the proposers, we have adopted a proposal for a law to be considered at the meeting of the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President. We will now hear the position of the groups of Members. First, the position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will be presented by colleague Bevk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u109	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A well-respected choir. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats supports the proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture. The drafting of the law and the bill itself have been in public debate since the beginning of this year. First, a thorough public debate was held on the work material for the new roof law, where the proposed solutions were discussed mainly by the professional public concerned. The proposed law was thus given a green light for the government and parliamentary procedure. The National Assembly, on the other hand, carried out its first examination of the law in accordance with the old rules of procedure and obliged the proposer to complete the legal text on the basis of 18 views adopted. The proposal for a new law takes into account many years of experience since the adoption of the old roof law, which has in practice not been the best way to live, which we are already reminded by the fact that we have not been able to adopt a national cultural programme in all this time. That is why it will be necessary to proceed immediately after the adoption of the law with the preparation of the National Programme for Culture and to upgrade the text, which was adopted very quickly by the previous Government in its short term. The law introduces a number of innovations in the management and management of institutions, labour relations, financing, decentralisation of public institutions and the delimitation of powers between the State and local communities. In our view, it is very important that the status of societies and other organisations in the public interest also be fully regulated. In Slovenia we have almost 2,500 cultural societies, in which there are close to 100,000 people of all states, both in the city and in the countryside. Cultural societies for many cultural activities represent a fundamental organisational form. Like choir singing, contemporary dancing, festivities, and so on. In many parts of Slovenia, however, there are only cultural creations. The law also regulates very sensitive funding, a very sensitive issue of financing 38 cultural institutions, museums, galleries and theatres, where the government has since 1998 been in the face of two solutions in the Law on the Financing of Communities and the Law on the Enforcement of the Budget for 2000. These solutions were used to automatically and practically transfer overnight financing from the country back to the congregations or to the congregations where the offices were established. The Constitutional Court annulled both decisions and ordered the Government, as the proposer, to resolve such an important issue as the financing of public cultural institutions under the umbrella of the Cultural Act; this has also been done by the Government in the transitional and final provisions. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats supports this solution, but at the same time reminds the proposer that the consent of the founders and co-founders of the institutions is necessary to implement this amendment; this is the only way to avoid unpleasant surprises from the past. On the basis of the decisions taken at the meeting of the Home Committee on Culture, we have before us the updated text of the bill. In coalition coordination, the United Nations Group of Social Democrats proposed the withdrawal of amendments relating to the governance and management of public institutions. However, since this is not formally possible, this is a direction for voting. With the other amendments supported by the government, however, we are interfering with the composition of the National Council for Culture, the provision of public service and the return to law of the income tax for the exercise of social rights. Your Honor! The Law on the Realisation of Public Interest in Culture, the National Programme for Culture and the novelties of the Cultural Tolar Act will, with professional and political consensus, significantly shape cultural policy in Slovenia in the coming period. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u110	Thank you very much, colleague Bevk. I don't see my colleague Marie Possonec in the hall, so I now invite my colleague Cimperman to the floor. Please have the floor to present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u111	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Dear Minister, representative of the government, colleague and colleague! We have a second consideration of the law on public interest in culture. The Social Democrats are once again disappointed with the bill. At the first reading of the law, we warned that the proponents had gone wrong - the building of the house began on the roof, not on the foundations. In the proposal to adopt a national cultural programme before the adoption of the Law on Public Interest for Culture, the argument of strength and not the power of argument won. Moreover, our fear that only some elements of the national cultural programme will be introduced into the law and that the government of the national cultural programme, as a basic strategic document, will not submit itself at all, has proved justified. In the second reading bill, the national cultural programme is even more valuable than for the first reading. The national cultural programme becomes only a pale reflection of its essence. The type of other documents finds its place before the national cultural programme: acts, plans, calls, calls and so on, while the national cultural programme would represent a long-term strategic direction. According to the proposed Article 10, the national cultural programme is to apply for a period of four years. Colleagues and colleagues, this reminds us of the famous planning socialist four-year-olds. The fundamental strategic orientation of Slovenia's cultural development, determined on the basis of a broad national consensus, cannot be changed every few years. In this way they are subject to daily politics. The national cultural programme as a strategic document of the development planning of a policy culture should be adopted for a period of at least ten years. Culture without national consensus on the fundamental strategic orientations of the cultural development of Slovenia has no future perspective. Reference shall be made to Article 16 which provides for the composition of the National Council for Culture. According to the latest version of the proposal, the National Council for Culture would be limited to cultural experts. We believe that there should be reasonable people in this world, but it is not necessarily cultural activities. Consideration should be given to maintaining the original dictatorship by which individuals enjoying public reputation are appointed to the national council. With regard to the appointment of the President and six members of the Council, we support the decision to appoint them to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Government, not the President of the State. Social Democrats are strongly supported by cultural societies that represent a fundamental organisational form for many cultural activities. Let us not forget that about 2,500 cultural societies represent the oldest and most mass form of association. Therefore, on the basis of a letter from the Association of Cultural Associations in Slovenia, we have tabled an amendment to remedy the lack of the text of the law for second reading, since the society has not been mentioned. We also raise the question of the eligibility of the inclusion of the Cultural Chamber in the draft law in the public interest. There is a danger of becoming a bureaucratic body that serves to mask the weaknesses of the Ministry's responsible policy and to preserve party thinkers. We agree on the need to adopt a law on the realization of public interest in culture, but, as at the first reading of the law, we reiterate that the national cultural programme must be the basis for drafting a law on the realization of public interest in culture. The national cultural programme is a strategic document that decides on the design and public interest of cultural policy. The normality of culture and its organisation can only be achieved on the basis of the clear objectives set by the national cultural programme. In short, first the general, then the special. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Comrade Cimperman. Mr Villa Trofenik will present the position of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you for your word. A nice greeting to the audience! The law defines the public interest in culture or imposes responsibility for the care of cultural development both in the country and in the local community. As quickly as the proposalr found himself in the midst of a dual-level problem, of course, he cannot get past the ferrets posed by the eternal topic of delimitation of powers between local communities and the country. Secondly, the financing of local communities and the co-establishment or establishment of institutions of wider local importance. There is a need to recognise some of the proposaler's efforts to resolve problems, in particular the allocation of funding in the area of part of cultural activities, but we do not think that certain solutions are properly regulated and that we will not come up with the best quality that can be regulated at this time, with a minor correction or with a little completion of the proposed ideas. In our parliamentary group, therefore, we would like to point out what, according to our judgment on this line, is not adequately resolved between national cultural care and local culture. If we went according to the series of articles, we would first point to Article 38, which deals with the co-establishment of public institutions of local importance or broader local importance. Unfortunately, the proposed solution cannot be completed or amended in the last paragraph in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, we fear that it will unnecessarily lead to the further division of existing institutions and other entanglements that can arise from this under-completed dictatorship of the last paragraph of this Article. At the same time, we fear that a proposed and apparently legal solution will unnecessarily discourage some local communities from caring for cultural activities. In institutions of wider local interest in article 69, when the law provides for additional funds - allow me to use one of the former colleagues' expressions - foresees the law, you might say, non-European solutions. The unnecessary way is additionally burdened by the State budget without pre-imposing an adequate horizontal calculation between the local communities which receive such a service of general interest. The law is needlessly generous with additional resources from the state budget and, compared to European solutions, still at an inadequate percentage, rather than defining clear criteria for what is local and what is of greater importance or national importance, and on the basis of these criteria, there is a divisional key or divisional relationship. While the law provides that a new law on the financing of local communities could complement or better regulate certain solutions, we fear that, when necessary, there will be too much reference to solutions in this roof cultural law. In any case, we miss the necessary horizontal financial alignment between local communities, which was also one of the fundamental ideas of amending the Law on Community Financing. And if we are speaking, in some explanations of constitutional decisions of the Constitutional Court, I would point out that we are also afraid in our parliamentary group that the same mistake has been made in the procedure and that the same consequences can happen as they did years ago. This also implies, of course, the questionability of the solutions defined in Article 136, when 40 per cent and 60 per cent of the local and state levels are fixed, especially when this local level is resolved, how these funds are provided or local resources, if you want them to be provided at a local level of 40%, how this is broken down by several co-founders. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Comrade Trophynik. Collegiate Lidija Majnik will present the views of the Liberal Democracy Group. My colleague Majnikov, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u115	Your Honor! The law under consideration is one of those which we have considered in the first reading in the old Rules of Procedure and which have continued the second reading under the new Rules of Procedure. Since 18 very strong views and proposals were submitted to the law in the first reading, and these were taken into account in some places in a relatively self-sustaining way, we were in the LDS Club in great difficulty, what to do with a law that did not bring any significant innovations compared to the old and national cultural programmes, nothing was more accurate than the old ones and which did not regulate the most traumatic relationship between the country and the local communities in the area of jurisdiction and financing. The dilemma remained also after receiving the opinion of the legislative and legal service, which was very general and allowed for too much doubt, and it also announced many concrete comments. In the end, however, we have decided to finalize and support the amendment law, especially because European Union legislation is also a part of it. We corrected the bill in the part that preceded the other laws in the field of local self-government with solutions. We have specified the competences of the Cultural Chamber, the appointment of the President and members of the National Council we have entrusted to the National Assembly, not to the President of the State, we have tried to regulate the administration of public institutions in accordance with the applicable law on institutions. In the law, we supported all the solutions governing the functioning of societies, but we differed in terms of the censorship for independent cultural workers and failed in the articles on contracts and where the country is protected, and the user or contractor was deprived of this protection. We hope and wish that the readers and users of the law will see our main objective, which is that culture is indeed in the broadest public interest and that this interest is ready to be exercised by very different providers, from large to small public institutions, from societies to independent cultural workers. We will support the law in the LDS Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you very much, colleague Majnik. Mr Peče is expected to present the views of the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members and is absent. I therefore invite my colleague, Ana Marija Tisovic, to present the views of the New Slovenia Group. We will also exhaust the presentations on the positions of the Group and start by discussing the articles and the amendments tabled. Now she has the word of a colleague, Ana Maria Tisovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. Dear Mr President, distinguished Minister, distinguished Secretary, colleague and colleague! In our parliamentary group, we positively assess that the proposal for a second reading law refers to the cultural development of the entire Slovenian nation, i.e. also of emigrants and foreigners, but not only of the inhabitants of Slovenia. However, I must point out the non-consistency with the proposal for a law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture, which do not contain specific numbers regarding the financing of the amateur activities of the foreigners and displaced persons. We are equally positive about the newly defined provision of specific cultural needs for blind, deaf and other groups of the population with special needs. We note that the discussions so far have repeatedly stressed that our country needs some basis on which it will build its cultural activities. Opinions are diverged here. The ruling coalition emphasises that such a foundation can only be the proposed law, and in New Slovenia we are still convinced that the basis can only be a national cultural programme, which will guide the development of cultural activities and introduce a new wind and momentum into this area. We must be aware that in a year and a few months we can be full members of the European Union, where the culture will be the one that will make us know where the borders of Slovenia go. We need to adopt legislation in the field of culture, not just this law and the national programme, for our own sakes, because of Slovenian cultural heritage and Slovenian potentials, but not so much because of European requirements. These, by the way, mainly refer to the free movement of labour, which is artists, ideas and the protection of personal data. But the rest is in our country's hands. We must first define what we want with the national programme. The Act of 1994 already required the adoption of a national programme in one year and was still not adopted after eight years. The Minister of Culture has promised us that the programme is almost ready, but until today, until the second reading of the bill, we have not yet adopted it. They also point to the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. A particularly sensitive area is the dismissal of employees in culture. It is problematic to fire workers for business reasons, such as the adoption of a different programming design. Such a decision may result in a replacement of, for example, the entire theatre ensemble or orchestra, which has already been introduced and therefore better quality - there may be a change. This shows the role of director, Kiko appointed to office, can choose to replace employees on his own, as he adopts a strategic plan and work programme that can be a business reason for forgiveness. The envisaged way in which institutions operate allows for over-concentration of the power and powers of the Director. In our Group of Members, we believe that the powers of the institution are too distorted. At the time of the adoption of the law, we still miss the adoption of the law on the financing of municipalities. The resources allocated by the State to finance the culture of municipalities are being reduced. The State, without the consent of the municipalities, is legally binding, but not financed. In the second paragraph of Article 140 of the Constitution, the State may, after prior consent of the municipality or the wider local community, by law transfer to the municipality or the wider self-government local community the performance of individual tasks under national jurisdiction. Of course, if he also provides funds for this. We still see too much of the country's role in the area of culture. The law does not stimulate an independent private sector. It's a national culture world. In fact, the Council does not have any powers except to give opinions and initiatives to be dealt with within a certain time limit. Here we can ask ourselves about their legal situation in the system of state authorities. Although the promised national cultural programme has not yet been presented in the National Assembly, the New Slovenia Group will support the legislative proposal. [[...]] [[A sign for the end of the presentation.]] [[...]] If I can finish. However, the deadline for the drafting of implementing rules under this law seems too short because we believe that the Ministry will not be able to prepare the necessary regulations by this date, given that the law is only under consideration in October. We'd better agree on a more realistic date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u118	Thank you very much. We will now turn to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled. Please have before you a review of the amendments of the 21st century. Before we go to Article 10, I will remind you how much time parliamentary groups or Members of their kind are available: LDS 30 minutes, SDS 10 minutes, ZLSD 15 minutes, SLS 30 minutes, NSI 15 minutes, SNS 10 minutes and finally government 15 minutes. I would like to inform you that, on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats, the parliamentary group or colleague Bevk proposed the withdrawal of the amendments to the amended bill, but we cannot take this withdrawal into account in the light of the new Rules of Procedure. We can't do this! And the amendments remain in debate. They may be rejected by vote. We're at the 10th. Please. My friend, please. Procedurally. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u119	I have an amendment review here, and I don't know if we went straight to Article 10.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u120	Yeah.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u121	What about Articles 2, 3, 8, and so forth?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u122	These are the articles to which the amendments have been tabled. We're in another reading. Thank you. So we're at Article 10. It is a group of Members with the first signed Lydia Majnik who has tabled an amendment to this Article. Anybody want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u123	Yeah, I would.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u124	Please, Comrade Jerovšek. You'll only turn on the microphone when I give you my word if you're so kind. Please, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u125	Since this article is a national programme for culture, I think I have the right to advertise in this context, and that this national programme for culture also includes an appropriate national marking of important events from Slovenian cultural and political history. In conjunction with Article 8, where it clearly states that the public interest in culture is based on the provision of public cultural goods for the development of Slovenia and the Slovenian people and is being realized primarily by providing conditions for Slovenian cultural identity and common Slovenian cultural space, I am interested in whether there is any behaviour at all in the cultural ministry, or whether there is any behaviour, awareness of the national programme for culture and public interest, for example, for Slovenian cultural identity, for Slovenian cultural space. I'm asking because I think [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The ministry, which is for me - and this answer, Minister Rupel, believes that it is responsible for the preparation of national celebrations, national celebrations and there has been no national celebration of the 80-year anniversary of the accession of Libelič, which is a disgrace to me, and I wonder whether there is any national programme for culture in this country. [[...]] Koroška pesem - Kernjakova and all of this - shown to the entire area of Slovenia is also part of this national programme for culture. And ours, if - give me an explanation, Minister Rupel told me that the Ministry is responsible for this, then the Ministry is unaware of the cultural and political significance of certain events in Slovenian history and how they should be marked. Mr President, you did not speak at that celebration, but you spoke at a celebration of the local community or the congregation. The 80-year anniversary of the accession of Libelič and their will, the Libeličans, is such a marked event that it is not allowed and should not go past the Slovenian public - and direct transmission and all that. And I demand responsibility for something like this to happen. I also ask: Was it a political interest? If it is the responsibility of your ministry's director to speak to your party's High Representative, anything else will in fact be abstract and denied. I would certainly go to such a celebration as I went to the 80th anniversary of Prekmurje connection and other similar milestones in Slovenian history. And this has cultural and domestic significance and importance for the upbringing of the next generation. And if the Ministry of Culture doesn't realize it, and any other ministries, then it's sad for our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u126	Since you mentioned me too, I can answer your question with a calm conscience. I know this was your question yesterday, but you weren't there. Now I'm going to answer you because you mentioned me. I have informed Libelič that I wish to attend their celebration as President of the National Assembly. Then they asked me if I wanted to talk. I said: of course, if you wish, I will gladly speak and greet the celebration on behalf of all colleagues and colleagues. Anyone else want a word on Article 10? Please. Let's talk about the article.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u127	I have talked about this article and in this regard also [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u128	But that's not what Article 10's talking about. [[...]] I explained it to you, and that ended the discussion. Now I can only talk about Article 10. Please, we have to stick to the rules, I have seen two hands, my colleague Mojet first, and my colleague Sponik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. It seems to me that today we have also received the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the amendments to the amended law on implementation On the bench is this, 21.10. As long as I have reviewed this amendment to the amendment of the Group of Members, which is now under discussion here, I think this amendment to the Government's amendment is more appropriate than the basic amendment, at least I would be making some distinction between the Executive Council and between the Government. What I would like to stress, however, is that investments are already well drawn and concrete in the law, which we will see as the next item in the agenda. I will therefore certainly support what the government has proposed in the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Comrade Companion, now I give you my word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u131	Thank you, President. Here we have guaranteed ourselves half an hour, and we will not fully spend. Mr President, do we really have any amendments to the government that my colleague Moga was talking about? Can you answer this question that my colleague Moga spoke about? I don't have it. All I have is an opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u132	Please, Comrade Mogue, let me get this straight.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u133	President, I got on the bench, and it's probably this material that we have all Members of Parliament in the morning. It shall bear the title EPA 2002, 3511 and one number and 6503/2002-1. The address is approximately: President of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, Ljubljana, and sent by Secretary General Mirko Bandelj. On the other hand, the Government's opinion on individual amendments and the Government's amendments to the amendments to the MEPs is on the other hand. I think we should take this material into account when considering it. I am sure that the other Members have also received it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u134	In three minutes, I'll interrupt the session to see if there's a problem with the procedure. Please. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u135	The document, which is important for discussion and later for decision-making, is the review of the amendments of 21.10.; the reviews of the amendments received by the Government are not essential for discussion and later for decision-making, as they are not properly submitted in order to be relevant. Comrade Sponik, you have the floor [[This rest period shall not be counted at the time of the debate of the SLS Group of Members]] . Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u136	Thank you so much for saying that. I'm sorry, then I got this text in a bunch of papers that my colleague Moge was talking about. I would therefore like to discuss Article 10. Article 10 and the amendment tabled by the Group of Members follows, in fact, the additional opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and I think it is right to save it, as the real group of Members does. While the government is making an amendment to the amendment under the Rules of Procedure, I do not know if the deadline has yet been reached; this will be decided by the President. So I would support the amendment of the Group of Members myself. But I do have another problem that's connected to the organization itself. I have been very attentive to this opinion of the legislative and legal service, which wrote on Articles 1, 2, 3 and 9 "will have to be upgraded, further cleaned up, will have to be cleaned up", but unfortunately no amendments have been tabled. It was only one day for the amendments to be tabled, it is likely that Members have not had time and that the procedure is practically closed here. If the legislative and legal service is right, unfortunately in these articles we will adopt a slightly worse law-enforcement. And, President, do everything you can to have Members of Parliament for at least two, three days, so that we can follow the opinion of the legislative and legal service that gives it to the law when it comes to the second hearing. I'll check in with the other amendments later. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u137	I understand your proposal, colleague Sponik. Anyone else want a word on the amendment of the Group of Members with the first signed colleague Majnik to Article 10? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude this debate. I am putting to the debate Article 16 and the amendment of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u138	I would only take the opportunity to ask my respected colleagues what led them, to write in the dictatorship "persons enjoying public reputation" and to miss a solution, as proposed by the Committee. It is the composition of a world of experts who enjoy public reputation in the field of cultural activity. Do you estimate that the composition of the National Council for Culture would also include persons who enjoy public reputation and may be in the fields of medicine, international relations, finance, law and so on? If that's the case, then I support the solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u139	Buddy Bevk. Peace in the hall. Comrade Bevk, behind you, Comrade Evil. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleague Podobnik, this is exactly what we had in mind when we proposed this solution, because only experts in cultural activities - I think it is a too narrow group of people, so we have proposed, of course, people who enjoy public reputation in Slovenia in various areas of their operation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u141	Bad boy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u142	Yeah, experts are experts, and we all have a lot of respect for them. However, as far as art and culture are concerned, there are, in my opinion, people who have a reputation as cultural, as artistic creators. And that's why this definition of "experts who enjoy reputation" seems too narrow to me. Because culture and art can't just live under the edge of expertise.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u143	Explanatory note, colleague Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u144	Thank you, Mr. President. Explain to your fellow villain. They are not experts who enjoy public reputation, but we have accurately written down personalities who enjoy public reputation. Of course, they can also be artists and other creators, they can also be top doctors and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u145	Comrade Jerovšek, behind you, is quitting. Please, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you. The copy of the amendments in this consideration shall be those which are not materially in the interest of the public interest and are not also destined for its implementation. Because the question of whether to say it is an expert or an individual does not seem so crucial to me, especially given that the expert is supposed to be a respectable and respectable person by definition, should not be without professional conduct At the same time, I would point out that it is crucial because it is in this article, but it is how the National Council for Culture works. And how it'll work. Or how this moment works, however, it is questionable, given that the National Council for Culture or the Council for Culture, in its present form, in this law, has thus given us no opinion or a well-known initiative or position that would substantially alter the possible fate or the usefulness of this law. And I'm afraid, as defined, it won't be in the future. It is true, however, that at least in this sense it is positive that it has been corrected, that it no longer calls it, as in the first old proposals, the President of the State, but that it has been appointed by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u147	Anyone else want a word? A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u148	I would like to remind those colleagues who are not participating in the Committee on Culture, Education and Sport that this debate proposed by the Group of Members of the United Nations is similar to that which was already in the text for the Committee and has been discussed and amended. Both in the work that tells about who and how he appoints these members of the world, as in the part of whether they should enjoy public reputation, which meant an overly open definition for us in the committee at that time, and we have come to the view that it is enough: people who enjoy a reputation and are also primarily engaged in cultural activities, so it narrowed down to this area because, nevertheless, it is necessary to think about some special issues and it is not enough for someone to have a love cord or not know what from this point of view. If this Council for Culture gives opinions on individual acts which are special, it will nevertheless be necessary to have a primary view of the matter governed by these acts and regulations. That's why I think the Board's dictates are more acceptable.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u149	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. Anyone else? I conclude the debate on the amendment to Article 16 and move on to the amendment of the same Group of Members to Article 28. Anybody want a word? He does not want to, so I am concluding this debate and we are moving on to the debate on the amendment of the ZLSD Group of Members by first signed by Lydia Majnik to Article 34. Please, mate Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Although we have proposed in coalition coordination today to remove all amendments relating to the management and management of public cultural institutions, what I have already said is not formally possible, so this is somehow a direction for voting when this happens today after 20 p.m. tonight. It is for articles, amendments to Articles 34, 42, 43, 44a and 150. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u151	Thank you. I've already said that this withdrawal of yours cannot be accepted. Anyone else want a word on the amendment to Article 34? I conclude the debate and move on to Article 42 and the amendment of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the amendment of the same parliamentary group to Article 43. I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the amendment of the same parliamentary group to Article 44. Please, Comrade Podobnik, paragraph 44.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you, President. All these articles now referred to by you, in an additional opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, are explicitly stated that the solutions to the proposed amendments adopted by the Committee or the solutions to the law at second reading are unclear and that the amendments withdraw, that we will adopt a law with unclear solutions if we follow the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Please, if you look at page two and page three, almost one page is dedicated to these themes. And we don't have any more amendments. Wrong world.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u153	Anyone else want a word? We're at Article 44. Please, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u154	I would only answer to my colleague Sponik. In this national assembly, it is indeed impossible to work in such a way that for the first time the legislative and legal service gives its opinion and we have taken full account of all these opinions of the legislative and legal services on the Committee, including the comments made on the Committee, we have taken full account of, and after the case has been concluded, the matter should also be completed on this side for a good taste. And I would ask you, President, to arrange a little in these services so that such things will no longer happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u155	I said earlier that I understand the comment and the proposal of my colleague, so - I can only repeat this once more - we are in Article 44. There's no debate. I conclude and move on to the debate on Article 44a. The amendment was tabled by the ZLSD Group of Members. Anybody want a word? I'm closing the debate. The same parliamentary group has tabled an amendment to Article 59. Please, mate Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here we propose to delete the second paragraph. In fact, the paragraph with the same content was adopted as the first paragraph of Article 83. In view of the fact that a specific chapter on the status of societies and other organisations in the public interest in the field of culture is contained in the amended proposal for a law, it is justified that societies are covered in that place, which means that the same text should be deleted in Article 59. Thus, societies are regulated in Article 83 and the law will make matters more transparent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u157	All right, buddy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues from the United List! Actually, I don't understand. On the one hand, you defend societies where more than 100,000 people work and, on the other hand, kick them out of Article 59. That's what I'm saying, that paragraph that I filed, that amendment that I tabled, that's exactly what it is. However, we all know that Article 59 speaks of public cultural programme operators.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u159	Anyone else want a word? We're at Article 59. Can I find out that I don't? Okay. We are under the amendment of the same parliamentary group to Article 87. We have a proposal for a new 87a. A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u160	Dear President! Here, too, I would say that there has been a major debate on this subject on the Committee and that this is a solution that is going back to law. This was the solution proposed by the government earlier. But the debate on this has been going on for many years, and I must say, for those who love to incite, much longer than they could attribute to anyone that he has a personal interest. What is true in this article is that the issue of censorship is, in my opinion, conceptual rather than social. If we view this as a conceptual question, then the solution proposed by the government first becomes, and at this point, the United List - at least from my point of view - is problematic. Conceptual why? Because if you look through the entire law and through all these debates and also these introductory debates that we have heard today, the law deals largely with issues of public institutions, public administrations, redistribution of funds between the municipality and the state, and so on, and relations, how to centralise things to a greater or lesser extent. Freedoms are that - that I can use this term - what is the basis of all cultural activities. It is not a theatre that is not based on organized individuals, nor on an orchestra and so on. A large proportion of people working in the field of culture are registered at this point in time as freemen and about the same number, if not more, are in public institutions. I can't tell you at this point how much the public sector employee budget costs and how much the budget costs to pay these contributions. But the sum of these contributions does not reach the average quota spent by one theatre in Slovenia alone, the sum of all the rights granted by the Ministry. At the same time, the vast majority of these people support the ensembles, museums, musicians and so on and are, I will say, the only flexible ones that can move, say, from Ljubljana to Celje, from Gorica to Trieste and so on. And here I believe that there is some misunderstanding, because if we want to address this, the issue of these rights, as a social issue, should not be exacerbated, we should not have this criterion that they must be excellent and above average, as the law speaks of. And if we kept this solution proposed by the United List, it would actually make sense to transfer it to the Ministry of Labour, Social Affairs and so on. Because, of course, it is also true that a large number of people who act as singles live very badly. Even a large number of great creators live very badly, and before that, it is impossible to cover their eyes. However, the survey is intended first of all for the possibility of someone passing through an institution performing an activity and for the payment of contributions to be received by those who are deficient, as stated in the law, and those who are above average. Therefore, it is not possible to resolve this with censorship, as it is later done, but with the criteria to which these rights are given. And the ministry just needs to make more clear criteria if people on the Ministry and the United List feel that things are getting out of hand. Otherwise, there will be nothing to talk about reorganization. Why would someone take the status of a freeman if he knew that he could lose the right to pay his contributions in the next moment because he's very good? Why would he do that? It doesn't make any sense. It turns out that this limitation actually makes those who are still successful among the great ones. But censorship means that whoever works successfully in this area loses that right immediately. And this seems senseless and conceptually wrong to me, even if you want to transfer some of the burden to people who are not connected to these solid forms of organization that they spend, I'll say, 98 or 95 percent of the money that the Ministry of Culture has.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. Anyone else? We are on the proposal for a new 87a. [[Nobody.]] Okay. I conclude the debate on this proposal and turn to the debate on Article 89 or the amendment of the same Group of Members to it. Anybody want a word? Buddy Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you very much. This amendment is linked to the article or amendment we discussed earlier, and I also suggest that you support it after eight o'clock in the evening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u163	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u164	Of course, I take the point of these discussions in that it might be possible for colleague Bevk, as a proposaler, if he wasn't quite good enough to say so, in the previous debate, to say that, like everyone else, it is possible that this is withdrawing as well. But I understand that he doesn't want to, because it's basically two different concepts of organising activities. And from this point of view, I plead that you pay attention to some numbers. Here someone may assume that when the censorship is lifted, everyone entered into the register also gets the right to pay the contributions. That's not true. That's not true at all! My point is that the Ministry even needs to tighten these criteria. That he must tell which "calls" - to tell them in the notes, they are deficits, just as he has declared in previous articles. But it's not like people are fooling around with this, that's gonna mean so much and so much money. In fact, censorship only means that we are afraid of excellence and of the excellence of those who are successful. And that's not the difference between those who are enrolled and those who get this right, but that's the difference between those who have this right and achieve censorship. And there's not even 50 of them a year if it's true.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u165	Thank you very much, Comrade Sculpture. Comrade Bevk, behind you, Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thank you for your word. Dear colleague Skolcz, just to clarify that we cannot withdraw the amendments because this business is not possible. I have proposed to the amendments on governance and governance that this is how we should proceed with the vote. However, in the case of the amendments to Articles 87 and 89, I ask the National Assembly or the Assembly to support the amendment, also because the deletion of income censorship would constitute an important burden on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia in 2003 and beyond. And the Finance Committee, when considering this law as well, found that this law would have no financial implications for the 2003 budget. However, if we were to adopt a loss of income censorship, the question is what would be the position of the financial home committee towards this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u167	My colleague Mogo.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u168	President, thank you very much. When we discussed this issue on the committee, and we have dealt with this issue for over an hour, two questions have been raised before the members of the committee. The first question is whether other areas are similarly regulated. Government representatives were unable to respond to this, or they did not know, and they will probably have to do so during today's debate or when we vote on the amendments. But as far as we can see for ourselves, let's say in the area of sport, which is typical and which carries the voice of Slovenia far across this border, this is also during censorship. So they have censorship. And I think it would be unwise to regulate different areas with different vats. The second thing that was here, and I should also say, was the amount of these funds, whether they were small or not, and, as much as my memory does not deceive me, the government's representatives on the committee at the time said that the adoption of such an amendment would be difficult at a given time of about 160 million tolars. This was somewhere this assessment, which means that if there were no additional funds, these funds should be taken from somewhere else or redistributed by those who accept censorship or, what colleague Školč said, by criteria that some who have now received it would probably fall away. That censorship means defining certain social categories then from the acquisition of this income. However, the committee supported the deletion of censorship.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u169	First, my colleague, Mrs. Potrat, then my colleague, Školč.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you for your word. Already in the debate on the Committee, because the Committee decided to delete the income price, I proposed that the Committee should adopt a provision during the transitional provisions which would, for at least one year, suspend the payment of obligations resulting from the deletion of the income price. After clarification of the legislative and legal service of the National Assembly, the committee did not vote on this proposal at all. In this context, the current proposals of the Consolidated List, which introduce a redefinition of income censorship, can also be seen. From experience, when we talked about the excellence of Slovenian artists, I would point out that many Slovenian artists, who would probably be able to overcome their excellence in the labour market, have their first professional interest in some public institution, which is not necessarily a cultural institution. I only point to a number of academic painters and sculptors who work as professors at the academy, or to artists who work in schools, not to mention musicians. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u171	A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u172	Look, at this point, of course, we may also run out of this time that we have available for the entire marriage. But it makes sense for me to say that a lot of people speak more in their minds than I hope to claim for myself. When we talk about these contributions, we need to know that these are the smallest contributions prescribed by other legislation. It is said that the lowest contributions are made to social and health insurance. So this marriage has nothing to do with it. The granting of status is also not linked to the resolution of social issues. There are people in the wrong, too. The award is related to excellence and the withdrawal from success. And I object to that. If we compare it to others, let's say athletes. For athletes, as you know, there is a number of arrangements so that they get not only the lowest insurance, but that one or the other ministry takes it to work and gives it a certain salary, which, as far as I know, is a small amount greater than the minimum, which means that the state budget costs two or three times more than one for the areas of culture. That's why I find this comparison incorrect. I do not say that this is a fair payment, but nevertheless, people who are either employed in the military or in the police and we all know that they perform these tasks occasionally or are so arranged that they can compete in favour of Slovenia do not have the same status. Those who receive the right to pay their contributions are not employed by the Ministry. They don't get paid. But they get the lowest social security. And those who also exceed this significant censorship pay first the copyright fees and later the income. So from this point of view, I'm going to say, this thing is very comparable to all other activities. And from this point of view, I'm going to say, this is the cheapest way to maintain the cultural system. Writing into the register and giving these rights to really good people. Speculation, however, is unclear to me how much this will cost in the second year, because we have had questions about how many there have been in the past years and we have not received a full answer to these questions. That's why, I'm going to say, in my opinion, it's just as speculation to say that this second year is going to cost 160 or 200 or so million dollars. How can this be speculated, but if this is determined by the actual state of affairs, it is said by the income forecast.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u173	We're at Article 89. Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to the debate on the 144th Article and amendment of the Group of Members with first-signed colleague Lidija Majnik and the ZLSD Group of Members. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate. I am opening a debate on the last of the articles to which the amendments were tabled, namely the amendment of the ZLSD Group of Members. Anybody want a word? Please, mate Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It shall apply equally to the amendment to Article 150 as to the amendments which follow from Article 34. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u175	Thank you. You are therefore proposing a withdrawal which cannot be formally accepted. Okay. Anyone else want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 150, and thus the discussion in the second reading of the proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture. The assembly will hold a vote on the amendments below, beginning at 20.05 a.m. in the framework of the votes of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. I am informing the National Assembly that we will move on to agenda 9 at 5:30 p.m. when we move on to second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. Until then, I'm putting an end to the work of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u176	Colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister and Secretary of State! We are moving on to agenda 9 - secondly on the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of Members with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Širca. I therefore give her the floor to further explain the bill. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u177	Thank you so much for saying that. The Act on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture has been tabled by coalition partners because the existing law expires in 2003. Since it was not fully implemented, it had to be updated and supplemented with new content with the most scarce programmes. In this regard, I refer to the example of cultural networks complementing the above-mentioned law with new items. And last time, because cultural resources have not grown in proportion to needs in recent years. In short, these are the main reasons for this law. Yeah, needs. The needs were, and certainly, also the most difficult and most difficult segment in the preparation of this law. This is also confirmed by the fact that the first drafts of this law resulted in more than 40 or almost 50 billion sums. Together with the concerns and the knowledge of the profession, with their priorities and facing the possible real 40 billion in final processing, we have reduced to 29 billion. It should be borne in mind, however, that almost half of the projects already in force, the existing law and which have not been implemented, as well as that they are a period of five years, taking into account the dynamics established by the Government each year, in most cases on the basis of calls and calls. The most common concern in the second but not only in the second, including in the first reading or in the debate of Members and Members, is whether the law will have real opportunities in the annual budgets to implement it. Although it sometimes turns out that wishes are disproportionate to the possibilities, let me point out that such a holding may indeed be state-favoured in terms of general saving, but the fact is that the most common argument is that, in the most cases, the culture, rather than the internal administration, defence and so on, falls under this argument. In very principled views, although culture falls into the highest ranking of national interests, as soon as we move from principle to concrete action, they soon disappear. It quickly acquires the status of an over-consumer without considering how it relates to the economy, education, tourism, even industry. Let me mention that the marriage has experienced quite a few amendments. We have complemented the proposal in line with the comments made by the legal service, and in this respect it is fully coordinated not to say upgraded. The amendment of the opposition MEPs for investments in the coastal castle is also taken into account, if I am going specifically to the amendments. The money was transferred from an archaeology project on Ptuj. The remaining funds from this project have, however, been diverted to library information. That's what the board decided. Some investments in libraries have also been corrected. In particular, in the Breži and Domalska library. Additional amendments relate to the extension of the programme, in particular in the area of facility rehabilitation. I'm talking about the amendments we have before us. The expansion of cultural heritage objects. We do not support these additional amendments, mainly because they do not meet the criteria that led us in the drafting of the law. Some may, however, be involved in regular funding. It would make sense to support only the amendment of the group of Members with the first-signed Mr Mohet, which is only a correction of the wrong numbers. Perhaps not all the needs are reflected in the marriage, and perhaps the government did not categorize them firmly enough when we turned to it. But the fact is that without this law, culture would fall on the average of the ambitions of this country long ago, the ambitions it has reinforced and must be strengthened before confronted with Europe, even before facing itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u178	Thank you for the introductory explanation. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Youth, Science and Sport as a parent working body. I ask the Vice-President of the Committee, Petra Levič, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you very much. At its 16th regular meeting on 11.10.2002, the Committee considered the draft law as a working mother. In addition to the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly and the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we have also received amendments from the LDS Parliamentary Club, the United Nations Group, the SLS and DeSUS, the amendments of the Members of the Cveta Zalokar Orazem, Mr Brejc, Cimperman, Viszak and Auschwitz, and the report of the Committee of the National Finance and Monetary Policy on the financial implications of the bill. Representatives of the proposed law, representatives of the Slovenian Cultural Chamber, the Gloss Union and the Education, Education and Science Union were invited to the meeting. Majd Širc, on behalf of the applicant, provided an introductory explanation for the individual solutions to the proposal. The discussion focused on the content of the amendments tabled and on the amendments proposed by the committee members. Let me just explain for a second. The Annex, Table 1, is added with the amendment of the Brežice Castle and the remaining funds are earmarked for the information of libraries. Consequently, this Table 2 and the Table Summary are amended in the Annex. Table 3 is attached to the Annex to the library Domžale and Brežice. Upgrading. It is obtained by cutting down on all library items in the table: Celje, Cerkno, Črnomelj, Novo mesto, Šentjur, Kranj and Velenje. After a final discussion on the amendments and the articles of the legislative proposal and taking into account the opinion of the legislative and legal service, we have adopted a proposal for a law on handling at today's meeting of the national assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u180	Thank you for this report. And now I give the floor to a representative of the government. Madam Secretary, you have the floor and five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u181	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and Members, Presidents! On a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in March 1998, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a law on the provision of funds for certain emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. The aim was to accelerate the restoration of the highest quality cultural heritage monuments, the developmental approximation of libraries to international standards, the regulation of basic spatial conditions for certain central public institutions in culture and the preservation of development opportunities for amateur culture. During the period up to and including 2003, 23 billion 73 million were to be earmarked for the above-mentioned period, according to 1997 estimates. However, data show that the realisation of funds after years was the following: 1998 nothing since the law was not yet taken into account in the budget, in 1999 46%, in 2000 38%, in 2001 30%. In 2002 it will reach almost 34% and in 2003 it is expected to achieve 36% of the expected annual resources. With numbers - 8 billion 922,000 of the estimated annual resources will be used. Eight billion 992,000 of the total projected and revalued 24 billion will be used. The most important reason for this low implementation of the law is the annual budgets, which have provided the Ministry of Culture with significantly lower resources than those required by law. To a small extent, the less prepared project documentation for individual projects, or the difficulties of some local communities in ensuring co-financing, also favoured this. In the assessment of the state and the reasons for the amendment of the law, we can read what has already been done or is still in progress in the four programme areas of the Cultural Tolar Act. An extremely important contribution to the protection of cultural heritage, the construction of cultural infrastructure and the operation of libraries and of a culture of lovers, but what a third of the envisaged. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has supported the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Cultural Tolar Act, as we call it. It also supported the proposalers' intention to provide additional resources for new programmes to promote cultural networks in the field of bookkeeping, cinema and information technology on the one hand, due to the passing of time and knowledge of new needs through the law, as well as renovations [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] investments in conservation facilities, on the other hand. [[...]] The Government of the Republic of Slovenia also supported a total of EUR 29 billion.319,000. The Government considers that when considering and deciding on a second reading proposal, the Government should not exceed the total resources at the level mentioned above and therefore does not support the amendments tabled to exceed the ceiling. At the same time, I believe that it shows support for amendments that redistribute between individual programmes or facilities within the common framework of funds, especially if such transfers are more consistent with real cultural priorities and ensure a more even distribution of cultural infrastructure across the territory of Slovenia or a larger number of local communities. As an example, I refer to the co-financing of the construction of libraries because, taking into account the starting criteria of the central libraries, these include libraries in Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje, New Town, Koper, Novi Gorica, Ravna na Koroškem and Ptuj, they also take into account the relationship between spatial norms and the number of residents of the library area, the readiness of the project documentation and in particular the willingness of local communities to co-finance such facilities, which traditionally and under the library law are primarily among the municipal obligations. However, in the case of monitoring proposals for investment in cultural heritage facilities, the Government, taking into account the expertise on the cultural value of the objects and their interventions, does not support the inclusion of comparatively less important objects or those which do not have a guaranteed programme of operation during or after renewal on the table lists of objects under this bill. So much earlier, because the Ministry of Culture co-financed the restoration of cultural heritage monuments by means of funds within or outside the cultural tolar. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u182	Thank you, Madam Secretary. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First, I give my word to Mr. Sam Bevk, the United List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u183	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! As one of the candidates for the amendment of the Law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture between 2004 and 2008, I am pleased, on behalf of the Group of Members, that the Home Committee on Culture last week has prepared a complementary proposal for the law that we have before us today. Of course, the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the law. The law allocates 29.3 billion tolars for the next five years for five programming sets. For investment in public institutions 15.5 billion tolars, for reconstruction of cultural monuments 9.6 billion tolars, for librarying 1.5 billion tolars, for amateur culture 2 billion tolars and for cultural network 650 million tolars. The basic law will expire in 2003. Its realisation between 1999 and 2003 is 36.3%. Of course, also counting the 2003 budget adopted. That is why the basic purpose of the amendment and amendment of the law was to extend its validity for the next five years. The second reason is the substantive extension of the Law's annexes by new actions in the field of monumental protection and investment and the increase of funds for librarianism and amateur culture. In addition, the inclusion of the fifth programme point, the promotion of cultural networks in the field of publishing, cinematography and modern information technology. Otherwise, the reasons for the adoption of the law are similar to those four years ago when the two - thirds national assembly adopted the basic law. In the last 20 years, few updates and new developments have been carried out in the field of investment in public institutions' infrastructure. Several major investments were mainly in regional centres, while central state institutions in the field of culture were becoming more and more spatial. The maximum funding is therefore foreseen in this package. The care for the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage is a constitutional category, but the concern and related obligations of the State and local communities are not only the issue of the internal order of the Republic of Slovenia, but the protection of cultural heritage through the UNESCO Convention on World and Natural Cultural Heritage and certain other conventions and international instruments is our obligation to Europe and the rest of the world. In order to adequately protect our heritage, which continues to decline, due to the under-representation of resources from both the State and the local communities, we need to provide mechanisms and thus additional budgetary resources to reverse the decline trend. The list contains just over a hundred monuments or monumental complexes in the annex to the law. However, libraries are lagging behind in the annual flow of books to residents and to spatial capacity compared to European countries. Thus, for the purchase of books, 750 million will be reserved for Biblebuses 168 and 560 million for information. For investments in institutions listed in Annex 2, an additional EUR 583 million will be added. That investment in the development of libraries is justified, says the report that in 2000 we borrowed 19 million books in Slovenian libraries. Lovemaking through all Slovenian cultural tradition is a fundamental basis for the general cultural standard of people, as for professional cultural creation. According to the association of cultural societies, almost 2,500 cultural societies are currently operating in Slovenia, with close to 100,000 people. Without this basis, it is not possible to imagine a national cultural identity, in particular not because it is a highly developed and pluralistic cultural lover who can compete with the powerful influences of foreign cultures. Finally, cultural networks, like the fifth programming set, are also important for the protection of Slovenian cultural space within globalisation flows and for making cultural goods more accessible in the field of publishing, new media and film art. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the Cultural Tolar Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u184	Thank you, colleague Bevk. I give my word to Janez Cimperman, SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u185	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister, representatives of the government, colleague and colleague! Maintaining cultural heritage is a fundamental civilisation norm and preserving the identity of every nation. Article 5 of the Constitution states, inter alia, that the State is concerned about the preservation of natural wealth and cultural heritage and the creation of opportunities for consistent civil and cultural development in Slovenia. Article 73 also obliges the country and the local community to care for the preservation of natural and cultural heritage, as well as a number of international conventions. It is therefore undoubtedly necessary to provide funds for the rehabilitation of the most endangered and most quality cultural heritage objects. We are surprised that in the period 1999 to 2003, only 36.3 per cent of the implementation of the law on the provision of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture will take place. We hope that the funds have not been used for other purposes. In addition to the extension of the programmes planned and implemented during the period 1998-2003, the Socialist Party's Group proposes the inclusion of two programmes. Renovation of the castle Lanthieri and Lože in the municipality of Vipava and renovation of the castle Brežice. We expect you to support the amendments that will allow for the restoration of important and priceless cultural monuments. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the identification of funds for certain urgent programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture will be supported in anticipation of its 100 per cent realisation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u186	Thank you, Comrade Cimperman. And now, fellow Member Janez Podobnik, SLS. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u187	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I am also one of the law's proponents and, on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, representing the position on cultural tolar 2, if I may say so. It is interesting that when the National Assembly decides to support in a special way what we call Slovenian culture, especially in the field of investment, the government usually goes to the second place and Members come to the first place. It's not said that this is bad. In 1998, it happened in a similar way. And now in 2002 it happens in a similar way. First of all, I would like to commend Mrs Širce, Mrs Majde, for her good presentation. I think she has well presented the basic purposes of the content of this law. My colleague Brenčič and I have recently discussed this issue. My friend Brenčič is primarily asking how he's pointing forward. What does the 2004 budget say? Is there real coverage for this law? The ones we proposed the law, we know not 100 percent. Not 100 percent. Without pathetic, but with a peaceful conscience, I say that the Slovenian Parliament is obliged to allow the operation of all those institutions, institutions, societies, cultural focal points and everything that determines Slovenian cultural stay. And when the pervasive Slovenian macro-economy Mišo Mrkajič taught us in finance a few days ago that, apart from babbling about the need to preserve rural settlement and that culture is the foundation of our statehood, we are advocates of the spread of money for agriculture and culture, which claims that it is given too much for agriculture and culture - they did not provide any analysis of the "cost-benefit" of their claims. That's it. That's what this is about. What's "cost-benefity" for culture? Who's gonna write it? "Cost-benefite" analysis for Slovenian culture is being done in these years and in these months when we join the European Union. There's no price. Culture kind of doesn't have a price. As Comrade Bevk said, 36 percent have already been realized, the first cultural toll. At the time, it was 23 billion strong. The second cultural tolar is a strong good 29 billion. It was a wish and it was expected to be almost 40 billion. I believe that the Members have drawn up a good law. I would like to encourage the government and the Minister to defend this law with great energy and confidence every year as budgets are prepared. I believe that we have also very well justified the needs when we say that we will continue the projects that have already begun, that we will continue those solutions and those projects that have not yet been implemented have been in the first cultural tolar. And we said we'd open up some new extra programs. And we said that in some financing concepts we would start a little differently. The concept of financing, which is linked to the law on the financing of municipalities. I would like to touch on the third argument for the law, namely the so-called new additional programmes, which have proved necessary in terms of accessibility of cultural goods in the field of new media, art films and publishing, and which are largely threatened by the market. Most likely, thanks to her colleague Majde, she has a special status here in Slovenian film and everything related to Slovenian film, everything related to the help and participation of Slovenian cinematography and also the Slovenian Film Fund. We also stressed the importance of some new forms of information infrastructure assistance, which are also very important in the functioning of cultural institutions. That's what our marriage says. When we were preparing some amendments in the parliamentary group, we said we would just fight for them. However, if the Ministry of Culture assesses and says that some amendments are an integral part of the regular programme, we will, of course, accept this as a fact and do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Lidija Majnik, LDS, for the position of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u189	Your Honor! With all the so-called big topics that we deal with in public life and in the national assembly, culture is one of these. When entering the European Union, it is the people's identity and, of course, the culture that we will never forget to mention is to boast or thank it. Unfortunately, this cannot be seen through financial support for this same area. Since we are considering the budget at the same time, we can, of course, make quite a few comparisons. Some areas are financially covered 100% or close to this realization and the culture is far behind. There is still something going on in the implementation of the regular programmes. Individuals adopted laws do not, as far as financial coverage is concerned, yet they are not implemented or to a minimum. The model example is the Cultural Tolar Act adopted by the National Assembly in March 1998 and was not implemented until the following year. In the first year of implementation, in 1999, the law was implemented in 45.8%, the highest implementation so far. Over the next few years, the realisation was only falling, from 38 to 29.5, this year it will be slightly higher. Since the realization was extremely low, because the old law will run out of time, because the cultural needs for financial support are extremely high, we Members have decided to introduce a new law. We have followed the fact that an extraordinary number of projects under the first law have not yet been implemented, so we have also kept all these projects in the new law and added new ones to them. Given the great interest in this area, the law may even be too ambitious, as it could be a few billion and many new and well-founded projects. But even if we manage to provide funds for this, there will be a great deal for our culture. As in the other parliamentary groups, we in the LDS were divided between two interests: central and local. Support nationals, who are all in Ljubljana, or support the spread of financial assistance on the ground, i.e. to the whole of Slovenia and as many cultural segments as possible, we are confident that we have reached a compromise with the bill between one and the other, that we have balanced the needs and requirements at least roughly and that we will be able to support the law as it is. So the money race can begin. Since we believe in the interest and will of local communities, we are confident that they will do everything possible to provide all the necessary own resources. The law will therefore be supported by the LDS Parliamentary Group. We wish him a happy journey and a successful realization. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you. The Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group cancels the presentation of views and I also give the floor to Ana Maria Tisovic for the views of Nova Slovenije.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u191	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Madam Minister. Greetings, colleagues. The Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the provision of funds for certain urgent cultural programmes of the Republic of Slovenia is also adopted because of the transfer of emergency cultural programmes to be implemented by 2003 between 2004 and 2008. This is due to the fact that the budget for the period of validity of the law did not provide for sufficient funding. The overall implementation of the programmes will thus be 36.6% from 1999 to 2003. Why such inconsistencies have arisen between objectives and realistic options, and this is necessary for programmes that were already in 1998, i.e. four years ago. Not only in the law under consideration, but also in other economic programmes, education, we can ask social questions about why the government is shifting investment into the future and thus hindering development. When reviewing the list of cultural monuments to be financed by the State, we were first amazed by the choice. We assume that the creation of the list was not part of the public institution for the protection of the cultural heritage of Slovenia or that the list was subsequently adopted. No old town core from Gorenjska, such as any of the sites is taken into account in the selection of urban, cod and village nuclei. Kranj, Kamnik, Radovljica or Tržič. Their cultural heritage is certainly not negligible, so these cities would also deserve professional treatment and reconstruction. We believe that the absence of professional criteria is even more evident in the selection of archaeological monuments. This is where the latent settlement of Aydna nad Potoki is abandoned. Research and conservation works have been going on here for 25 years. During this time, five facilities were explored and presented, including an old Christian church. According to the original methods used in this, and architecturally shaped wholes, Aydna is today the most reference object of its kind in Slovenia. Archaeological achievements and methodology were presented both at home and abroad and received and rewarded everywhere. Given the quality of the works performed so far, given the archaeological potential of the site and the fact that the action has been carried out for 25 years, the location would also deserve financial support, as well as other similar archaeological pearls. Unfortunately, however, the money provided is not enough. Although we support young people and their development in New Slovenia, we believe that the amounts earmarked for youth cultural centres are too high. It would be more reasonable to increase the funds of the Fund for the projects that have been announced, especially projects with cultural and artistic value rather than commercial value. In an explanatory memorandum to the law, the following are listed in the section on amateur culture, in addition to equipment and premises, information technology and youth cultural centres: emigrants and residents. The means to preserve their loving culture, which is the basis for maintaining their identity in the world, cannot be found in Table 4. The law in question is therefore inconsistent with the proposal for a law on the exercise of public interest in culture. In the New Slovenia Group, we ask whether it makes sense to adopt programmes or to postpone these programmes in the period 2004 to 2008, as they are also unlikely to be fully viable during this period, especially as the funds for culture are falling ever more. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 21.10.2002. Earlier, I would like to remind you that the total time of discussion announced is: LDS 30 minutes, SDS 25, United List 10, SLS 15, Nova Slovenija 15, Slovenian National 10, Applicant 5 and Government 15 minutes, so try to focus on these times. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendments of the SDS Group of Members and the SLS Group of Members. Who wants a word? Mrs. Majda Shirtz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u193	Ladies and gentlemen, on the board, when we met with the amendments, there were many more, we took a path that made it easier for us to work. Article 2, which you have put to the debate, refers to a large extent or to a majority of the annex, to the table, and I ask whether this time, as on the committee, the amendments in the annex could begin to be considered, as they eventually bind themselves to the article itself. Thank you. It's on the other side.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u194	At the same time, the table referred to in Article 2 may also be discussed. Anyone else want a word? A fellow Rockhead. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Members and Members! I would explain the amendment to Article 2 but, as a result, also to the annex and, of course, to the annex to the dynamics of state resources after the years foreseen in the schedule. In fact, it is the archaeological site of Vache, which has already been one of those cultural objects and the area of cultural heritage, which should have been regulated under the old law. So far, nothing's happened. In fact, it is such an important object of the prehistoric settlement in the immediate vicinity of the geometric centre of Slovenia, and I am convinced that this cultural and historical facility has so much weight that it should not be allowed to be deleted in this time and in addition to the law on the provision of funds for certain emergency cultural programmes. In fact, I am convinced that the financial structure itself or the value of the programme in question does not represent such a significant financial share of the country that it could not be kept in the programme itself. We have already heard on behalf of the fellow Member's delegation, Mr Podobnik, who made it clear. At this very moment of Slovenia's entry into the European Union, Slovenia's investment in culture is certainly also invaluable. Therefore, we should not, in fact, be saving on this item. That is why I propose that this amendment, and, of course, all three amendments, should be supported in the definition of amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you. The next one who wants a word, Mr Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u197	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I will support these amendments, which do little for me to allocate funds to finance certain projects in the field of emergency programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in culture. I will support them in order to amend these articles, these tables, in order to remain at least a potential place to put some other programmes into these programmes, which, in my deep conviction, are absolutely necessary, and I find it very embarrassing that the government has not taken account of and included in this law, which has been drawn up by Members, of certain programmes. I think that the government is responsible for a national framework and that it is not necessarily the duty of our Members to remain under every law. Look, when I went through these charts, I noticed something. The municipality of Slovenska Bistrica, the minimum, but I do not know at all, is covered by these tables in these programmes. Although it is the largest spatial and cultural heritage, it is one of the largest and central municipalities in Slovenia. Such ignorance of the issue by the Ministry of Culture is surprising to me. But of course, I must say that I mentioned the case earlier in the previous law, where the cultural ministry has completely cancelled. The Ministry of Culture should only react when a law is passed. Look, for free, I'm looking for cultural monuments from cultural heritage. And it does not appear from this law that the castle of Slovenska Bistrica is one or the most marquee castle of the flat type of these castles, the profane buildings. Maybe it's the castle of Brežice. However, there is a need, even though the congregation renews it, for considerable investment. There's no castle and the city of Statenberg when the government gave it up. Even though it is one of the most famous Baroque castles, castles in Slovenia. There is no church of St. Joseph with famous pictures of Straub, no church of St.Jerne with famous pictures of Kremser Schmidt. And yet it is one congregation from now on, I will tell by some markings, the tower in Rogli is in this congregation. The church of St. Areh at Pohorje is in the municipality of Pohorje. She's not in here either. The tower in Boč is in the municipality of Boč. And is it possible and responsible that one such congregation is practically abstract? Except for the earlier program, the monastery of the Student, a first-class cultural monument, which was not restored. And I'm not surprised. In fact, I must say that I am surprised that - or I am not surprised because the Minister has not found the opportunity to officially come to the congregation and attend some controversial party-propaganda events. I just don't get it. And if there is no sense of the quality of some cultural heritage monuments in this country, then there is no point in us adopting such laws. If this law intends to support some party elites after certain ends of Slovenia, then the law is wrong. However, I do not condemn Members here, Members have the right to have their hands around them a little bit more, and the Ministry expresses the national interest, the national interest, the national programme, and I do not find a basic balance in this programme and in this law I do not find a basic balance. And I hope that by the third reading, the government itself will recognize its unequal vats, unequal vats, and I think it is its duty to come up with a normal programme for this so important law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you. The replica to your discussion is held by colleague Janez Podobnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you very much. I hope to fully follow the business provisions of the replicas. I would like to correct two statements which I think the honourable colleague Jerovšek used as an argument in his performance, and I think that you are misunderstood. The first is the relationship between the Member of Government and the second is the issue of cultural tolar and the regular programme in the field of culture. So, first part of the replica. Members also advocate national or national interest. My colleague Jerovšek, I am sure that this may have been the wrong argument, or most fundamentally the national state interest of those who have received the honour and opportunity to perform in this room. As has been said before, it is obvious - and this is a Slovenian specialty that when it comes to some major investment in culture, Members come to the fore and the government follows them - in a hundred years, it will be important who proposed the law, what and how it will be regulated on the basis of cultural solutions. And now for the second correction of the statement. If this law does not include some churches, castles and other projects from your congregation, this does not mean, for the first time, that we passed them, even the opposite, that may even mean that some cultural and historical and sacral objects are already in the Ministry of Culture's regular programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u200	Thank you. There's also a replica of Mr. Bevek. No, there's no replica to the replica. Please, Mr. Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u201	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I would like to provide an explanation with regard to the implementation of colleague Joseph Jerovska. I would like to say that the castle and port in Slovenska Bistrica are the property of the Republic of Slovenia, that they are state property and that they co-financed from the regular budget of castles owned by the Republic of Slovenia are state monuments. And right now, in these days, the investment on the roof of this castle's harbor is closing, and it's said to be investing here. The town of Statenberg was privately owned years ago and there was no initiative to invest in this important monument of Slovenian castle architecture. And I would also like to say that this year the Osankarica monument, Osankarica, at Pohorje, is also being completed, where the ministry, of course, also cooperated with funds and helped to rebuild. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u202	Thank you. I would now like to ask the following to conclude the discussion in part. In Article 2, the amendments are set out in three points. Does anyone want to discuss these three points? Mr Pukšič, to points 1, 2 and 3 of Article 2? Because that's what I'm putting to the debate right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u203	The debate is still on amendment number two? [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] Still. [[...]] Colleagues and colleagues, Mr President! It is therefore clear from the assessment of the situation and the reasons for the law why the extension of the so-called cultural toll is necessary for the rehabilitation of the most endangered and best-quality cultural heritage objects. In order to maintain the level of development achieved for amateur culture and to equalise development standards across local communities, and this is also related to the fourth table, I would like to mention, of course, that all those mentioned in this table, i.e. all the municipalities mentioned here, will receive, on the basis of this law, certain means for the preservation and development of a culture of love, or in the form of equipment, information technology or youth culture. All the others, of course not. Here, of course, the problem arises, because it does not mean that only a lover culture develops and takes place in 59 congregations, but it develops and develops in 192 congregations. More. In some congregations, it is quite intense and, of course, not only the problems of equipment, IT and youth culture, but some municipalities have major problems because they simply do not have the conditions for operation. That's why they use very inappropriate spaces or, if you want, in some cases also private facilities in municipalities - various garages etc. There's nothing wrong with that. In difficult times, of course, when national national interest is not a balanced development of the Republic of Slovenia, some Members, of course you also need to learn about this area. However, I would like to point out - and perhaps point 2.2, which speaks of the fact that it is also in order to bring the library's general education standards closer to the international standard of general education, so that there will also be changes to the library law, because it is easy for municipalities that cannot finance and, of course, have to finance all the amateur culture exclusively from their budget and voluntary contributions from citizens and citizens, to provide large funds for libraries under the library law, from the acquisition of books to everything else. Of course, I speak very specifically from the area I come from. At this point, we are funding the purchase of a bibliobus and thank the Ministry for co-financing this share. We are aware of the importance of this. But we can't handle all these burdens. None of the municipalities from the area of Slovenian Mountains and Haloz are in table number 4, and of course urban, bird, ormož, release, but so none of the others from the Slovenian mountains and Haloz is in there. And from the municipal budgets, we really care about preserving cultural heritage, cultural culture. I would like, among other things, to include these open-ended problems in Table 4 and, of course, to point out the perceptible fact that the Ministry of the Republic of Slovenia for Culture gives a half share of the one given by the municipalities for book and non-book material. This is unacceptable from the point of view of these smaller municipalities, which, of course, are not in these national programmes. That is why, of course, on this occasion, I am also reminding you of this. However, I would like to point out, of course, that it is possible to allocate funds for a lover culture, which is actually declining from 1999 to 2003, which means that one time increases slightly or follows inflation and then falls drastically. And to the annex in the table, from 2004 to 2008, when all the investments of public institutions are listed, then, of course, the amateur culture, again in 2008, this item falls considerably. In fact, I do not see any logic or account for any regular or other activity this year being more intended for amateur culture or why this item would fall by 140 million from 2007 to 2008. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you.Anyone else wants to discuss point 1.2.3 of the amendment under number 1, under number 2 and Article 3 to 2, in particular? You have a replica of Mr. Puksich's debate? Please, Mrs. Majnik and Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u205	Otherwise, this replica goes to Mr Puksic's debate, even though it is not in the right place, because it is in fact a general debate at the moment, not a consideration of the amendment to Article 2. However, some inconsistencies have been expressed, so it is worth warning. The provision for the maintenance of the level of development achieved of the amateur culture as well as the equivalence of development standards in local communities differs significantly from the previous law in this proposal. The total value for this activity in the existing, current law amounted to a billion 200 thousand dollars. However, consciously, we have decided to go double this item, and this time it amounts to a good 2 billion and covers basic - already laid down in the law - equipment, information technology and also action in youth cultural centres, which I think is very important for this kind of infrastructure. Nor does it argue that your area could not be found inside, given that all the regional exhibitions have been covered by the fund for amateur culture in Slovenia. I would also correct you in that chapter where you deal with vague concepts of co-financing and approximation of international standards for general education libraries. It's about special programs, deficit programs, already set up from now on, so to speak, not just enriching libraries with that beautiful literature that libraries sometimes don't choose to buy, or they don't somehow get it for these and other reasons. It is that item, already known, of the Biblebuses, which means much more accessible literature to an individual, for information. And this is in line with what we are actually missing from international standards. In this context, it would make sense for the law to be studied more precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you. I must point out that Table 4 is not amended, so now we will use the time to discuss what has not been tabled; it was started during the debate from one point to the other, so it is difficult to separate. I would like to call once again - Article 2, Amendments 1, 2 and 3. Anybody else want to discuss this? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I also give the words for the replica to the previous debate to Mrs Lidija Majnik and then to Silva Črnugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you very much. If the law is read carefully and understood, it is never intended to cover the legal obligations of the municipalities for the regular financing of the activity. The law we're dealing with is talking about something completely different. Mr Pukšič has been the mayor for a long time, since we had the Institute of Ensured Consumption, and he knows that the funds for the activities of the institutions were calculated precisely by the head of the population in each municipality and that the same parameters were applied even after we switched to the appropriate spending system. So he knows very well what his congregation’s obligation is, and I do not agree to say that the congregations have no money for it. For these purposes, the municipalities shall allocate to the financial balances the money of the State. I also hope that he does not think in this direction that the municipalities in the Slovenian Gorica are the most important and only, which is a satisfactory, loving culture. I hope it affords all its fellow citizens and everyone else more than what the congregation itself offers them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you. And Mrs. Silva Blackugelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you. Mr Pukšič, because, if I understand correctly, I have to explain, because of all of his comments he has seen in the problems he has in his own congregation and others, in the area from which it comes to say the matter better, and because of this he has also said in his statement that it would be advisable to change the law on librarianism. We just passed this marriage. If you do not think that it has been well defined in the work of financing, of course I do not think so, it would be better to focus all your attention on the law on the financing of municipalities. At that time, the libraries in this area from which you come will surely come into law, as well as the other libraries that we are adopting today in one way or another. These are also libraries from the coast, in the national mixed area, which, among other things, we have stated in the library law that they have a specific priority or special mission, but, for example, the libraries of Izola, Piran and Koper are not in this law, but that they are not listed. This law is one compromise on which we have found that only these things, which are proposed today, are also possible and feasible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thank you. Mr. Puksic, the debate. The replica isn't on the replica, but I'll allow you a discussion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you very much. I hope we still have enough minutes of SocialDemocrat at our disposal, so I can discuss it. It's true that things are connected, very connected. You know, a loving culture, the preservation of a lover's culture, education, a book fund, a cultural heritage and so on, but it's all ultimately connected to the dinars. There are more of these obligations, and more resources are needed to do so. Of course, I understand that the ladies who spoke before me do not know the breadth of legislation on local self-government and the financing of the municipalities because they do not do so. The change in funding for municipalities from 30 to 35% on income has brought about a shift, but for some quality and for some negative. If someone in particular in the congregation has received 5,000 tolars and someone has only 500 tolars and then from other obligations to be covered, you have to cover 1,500 tolars, someone has a deficit, and the other one has a deficit. Therefore, I just wanted to point out and tell you that the municipalities that are not in this national programme and in the field of the Slovenian Mountains and Haloz, there is no problem with the Municipality of Desterny that you will not be afraid, ma'am, but there is a problem in this area. The fact that this is a serious problem has also been addressed to the Minister and the Minister knows this problem is a serious problem. And if they are not covered on the one hand to receive certain funds for investment under this equipment or IT, etc., if this is necessary from the municipal budget, then it is impossible to cover everything else that this library law imposes on us. That is why I was saying whether we would make an amendment for the third reading and thus provide certain funds to these congregations on this side, because from the area from which I come, we should provide ca. 30 million resources for books and books only. If they fail to do so, they will not get it by the Ministry, and that means being hit twice in this area. And, of course, there can be no prospect of the development of the Slovenian Mountains and Haloz, that they will not even get what they should actually have. It is true, however, that the problem of this House is that the rate of uneven development is increasing from year to year, but that is the problem of the ruling coalition. And as colleagues from this side, I would like you to take this into account in the budget when it comes to the work on the law on coherent regional development. In fact, this has now brought more harm than benefits to these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you. I must reiterate that you are not discussing the amendments that I have put to the debate. We are now in the second reading, we have a debate on the amendments that are in Article 2, points 1, 2 and 3, and then the tables that I will now put to the debate. I promised the Minister a word earlier because she applied. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you so much for saying that. I wanted to complement this general debate you started. I answer that in Table 4, because you are talking about a lover's culture, I warn you, there are 59 items listed, which are the seat of the fund of lovemaking activities, which means that these are the seat of the exhibition and each exhibition covers a particular area, including the municipalities. This is said, if all 59 items are listed here, it means that the entire territory of Slovenia is covered. The exhibition and the fund, after an annual invitation to tender, allocates the resources it has under the budget of the Ministry of Culture by two paths: one of the cultural tolars adopted and, of course, the other, the regular budget which is the subject of the regular budget of the Ministry of Culture. And perhaps just a compliment to Mr Jerovsk. You have already supplemented the Members - the Law on Cultural Heritage makes it very clear that the owner is obliged to take care of his monument. In Slovenia, due to the rich heritage of 3,000 old material remains, we have from 17.5. registered units 15,039, or today declared 7,632 monuments. I think that we have not yet decided in this country that culture and cultural heritage are a pure priority in the government's budget, and as such we probably cannot provide the means to restore all monuments immediately in 2003, 2004 and 2005. Especially if the owners do not have very quality documentation, which means that the institution for the protection of cultural heritage, which is a professional body, prepare such documentation; this is in preparation. And on the other hand, there are certain programs missing. By drawing attention here to our common, both governments and the National Assembly, the importance and role of the cultural heritage that we all have before we join the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you. I closed the debate earlier on Article 2, so I will now put it to the debate. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] No one else came forward at the time. Comrade Jerovšek, I would now like to ask you to express yourselves - Article 2, Amendment 1, 2 and 3, from the review of the amendments. Please, you have the floor, and then I'll close the debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u215	Faced with the inviolability of our Rules of Procedure, of course, I must discuss the whole amendments. Of course, I have to say once again that I agree with this increase in funds, because I hope that within this increase it will be possible to make some more life-span of funds by the third reading. However, I agree here with some of the statements made by some Members, and I do not dispute with them, I do not replicate them, but in the debate I agree that Members express, in any other way, the national national interest, and I have not disputed it. However, it is not the duty of Members to do operationally what the executive authority has to do. But I also advertised because during this time I also spoke to the mayor of our congregation, who reminded me of some other notable monuments. And when the Minister mentioned 7,000 announced monuments, 7,000 and more, I am firmly convinced that the concentration in the territory of our municipality is such that the percentage is above the average percentage, depending on the size or size of the population or the size of the municipality, in the area of our congregation of these monuments from this register. At the same time, we are greatly nourished by this law. In all areas, everywhere, regardless of ownership. Among these most famous monuments, however, I must mention the recently discovered or discovered frescoes, which are the oldest in the church of St. Martin at Pohorje, which, according to the curator of the National Gallery in Ljubljana, Dr. Šabel, are the new writings of the history of Slovenian sacral art and are the most excellent monument or are among the top categories of these monuments of sacral heritage. But despite all the rich heritage in the area of cultural heritage, I once again stress the unacceptable malnutrition in this programme, with so many monuments and objects of the first category, it cannot be possible that such a large area is practically ignored here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you. To the amendment? To Article 2. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u217	I would like to ask that, for the entire time, we are not talking about Article 2 and to refresh our memory, we could, please, take note that point 1 of Article 2 is a requirement of 170 million for the Lanthieri Castle. 2nd point to Article 2 means the requirement of 94 plus 94 million for the Lože Castle. The third point under number 2 is the requirement for 25 million for the archaeological site of Vache. The fourth point also speaks of these consequential changes to these points. The 5th item also discusses the reallocation of funds for the Dornava Castle or an increase of 300 million funds for the Dornava Castle, on the basis of distribution, redeployment in Table 3 on the basis of the construction of two central houses in Ljubljana, SNG Opera and SNG Drama This is the subject of these points. On behalf of the applicants, I can only comment that it is not realistic to face these proposals primarily for the reasons already mentioned, so that they do not fall within the criteria which led to the drafting of this law. I would point out, however, in point 3, of the SLS Group, that the archaeological site of Vache makes sense in financing within the regular programme, even because this proposal has already been overtaken by an existing tolar and has probably not yet been implemented due to the unanimity of the profession or perhaps something else. The other solutions, of course, are very questionable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss Article 2? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate on Article 2. Does anyone want to discuss the table of Annex 1? [[No, no, ……]] I also conclude this debate. Who wants to discuss the table of state resources after years in millions of tolars in the annex? Mr. Skull, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u219	I'm the one who called earlier. [[…]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u220	I'm sorry. I really didn't see it. Allow me to discuss it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u221	See, a good part of this debate, which was held at the time of Article 2, would actually belong to this table 2. Here, too, it is possible to speak again only about these proposed changes, which, I will say, have been warned by my colleague, Shirtz, with appropriate indications. What is worth considering in these three amendments is whether we are going to the starting point, as Mr. Podobnik has said, that culture does not have a price and that, from this point of view, it is actually necessary to support unselfishly all the interest, to arrange certain things, which is possible the starting point, or, on the other hand, we are only trying to read these lists as stated in the law, that it is some urgent programs, on the one hand, and on the other hand, that it is again a high standard, who can enter these programmes. So, for the key monuments, for the key archeology, if you want, for the key old city cores and so on. Within these discussions, one word has been used all the time to make it the best compromise. What escapes me on this matter is whether it makes sense to compromise where a clean situation can be made. The law adopted by the National Assembly years ago, which now prolongs it and gives it new programmes and, above all, tells it that unrealised projects have priority, but the implementation of the law is accompanied by certain experiences. It's not just a percentage of how lucky budget money was a year ago. In all these years, legislation has also been built in the field of libraries and heritage protection. And if certain improvisations were possible years ago, I think they are no longer possible today, and even less are needed. Therefore, the question for these three proposals is whether we are trying to hold on to some criterion and standard, which is also discussed by law, or whether we are trying to make some compromises, which I think may lead to the possibility that the law may fall on another instance. See, if not everyone in these lists is in some way equal before the law, to understand each other precisely, then those who feel deprived may be in line with the same standard, can trigger appropriate disputes. If I speak hypothetically in the case of libraries, the Library Act allows the state to intervene or co-finance this infrastructure network where so-called libraries are of wider importance. The compromise brought by the government on the one hand and on the other hand by the committee is going through this. From this point of view, it is appropriate to listen to the opposition's colleagues and eventually leave the law open because, in my opinion, the Ministry has the opportunity to reply that most of these things do not belong to what we are discussing today in this programme, at least from what I know, and that even what needs to be said publicly throws certain things out that do not belong in. Because it seems to me that we can organize various press conferences and boast about how this is all arranged, whether for a particular place, or for a particular project, but this, I will say, is not an honor for the National Assembly. And if the hypothetical assumption that everything can fall due to low interests persists, then this is to be taken into account before the final decision is taken. From this point of view, I do not think it is at this point in time at issue because of precisely these compromises that have been discussed, but I do not find it controversial to support any of these proposals that we have, because in a similar way the others have come into the programme in a similar way. At least one piece. It would be as if the second part were completely clean and voted against each of these projects, and as I am quite clear that this is essentially a game to be played with completely open cards, from all sides, both from the point of view of Parliament, which once again praised itself for taking the role of proposing, as governments, which should endure in these criteria and standards.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u222	Thank you. There is a replica of Comrade Podobnik to your discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the lady, who is measuring how much time is left for the SLS Group. 11 minutes. Thank you so much for just having a short performance at the last amendment. I'd like to replicate, so correct the statement. In fact, my colleague, Školč, has come to understand from my discussion that I have actually introduced a winged, that culture does not have a price. I would like to make this statement clear that there will be no misunderstanding. From the point of view of the classical, hard look of a financier, from the point of view of sound Slovenian public finances, some of the investments proposed by four fellow Members are absolutely unnecessary. So from the point of view of someone, like I said, a tough bureaucrat financier, he'll say he can wait a lot. However, I believe that because of the moment in which we are, and because of the status of the activities behind the cultural monuments, the institutions in which they operate, and everything related to this law, the classic "cost benefit" approach simply does not work out in culture. That is why I would like to correct this statement, because then it might turn out that whatever someone suggests will fall or will not fall, so it would mean an irresponsible approach; where there is a clean situation, there is no need to compromise my colleague Školč, and I agree with you here - where the situation can be clean. But there are some situations - the problem is that the realization of the first cultural tolar was 36%, and we have all of those who wrote this law in the subconscious. And that's this problem, it has to be honest to say that when planning or proposing, you have to be much more resourceful to eventually learn from practice, that you'll get maybe 50 percent out of 100 percent, at least in some cases. Or that you have to be very aggressive in some programs, that at least something starts to start, that after so many years, when you're stuck and you're going to retire, your work will continue. This is a negative experience in Slovenian cultural tolar. The content is positive.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you. There is still an open debate on the annex - table, dynamics of state resources after years. No one wants to discuss it, so I conclude to this dynamic, Mr. Skolcz? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u225	Since the government has announced some further clarifications, I think it makes sense to say that there is another indicator, not just the financial implementation of cultural tolar programmes. If we went to look at things on the lists, then it would have turned out that there were significantly more projects than this average of 36%. If this logic is necessary, say, to get one billion, to propose two billion, then about 100 billion would have to be proposed for us to get those 29. I don't think it can be logical - because it's a three-folder - it can't be a logic that can be accepted by the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you. I no longer see the desire to discuss this annex. I conclude the debate. In addition, Annex 3 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members to this Annex. Anybody want to talk? Comrade Companion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u227	Thank you very much. Annex 3 and the amendment we have drafted in our parliamentary group touches on one sensitive issue of the relationship between the periphery and the centre, the relationship between the Ljubljana cultural pool, in this case cultural and Slovenian regions. Here are my colleagues and colleagues who are home from Ljubljana, don't mind if I'm a little provocative. It turned out that when we were preparing the law, I was following in my own time a real indicator of the state in which some national institutions are in Ljubljana and it is necessary to establish that the blacksmith's mare is, as a rule, barefoot in this case. And some very important state institutions: SNG Opera and ballet, and SNG Drama Ljubljana, have waited and presented themselves very ambitiously with very huge items. My colleague, I am risking an assessment that maybe in 2006 or 2007 the SNG Opera will not go 3 billion, but then the project will be rationalized and they will go 2 billion, and this will be a big project. I'm afraid so. I don't know if we're going to be an MP then, but it can be. The question is somewhere else. I do not agree to the thesis that only the inhabitants of Ljubljana do not go to SNG Opera and Ballet and Drama because this is not true. Not just that. That's not even the point of argument. However, it is true that these two institutions also enrich the life of Ljubljana and the Ljubljana and Ljubljana City municipalities and all those local centres that are gravitating to the center of Slovenia. Would it be such a political sin if the municipality of Ljubljana contributed 5% of the costs? Only 5% is proposed for each investment. 150 would have taken from the Opera and 150 would have taken from the Drama and tried to rebuild the Dornava castle, I was alone a few years ago and is a real pearl of monuments in the area of castles. As you know, it was a palace in which, for objective reasons, there was social security activity, and now it has been emptied and could be intended for other purposes. So, wouldn't it be good if at least one amendment were accepted? If we don't have any, we can adopt a law by the rules of procedure today because we have nothing left to do. In fact, the third treatment is unnecessary. Here I would support my colleague Školč so that at least one amendment might be accepted and open up the possibility of a third hearing and some other point of view. I would also like to propose the law, and here we have never fully satisfied ourselves, here I myself have cultivated a scepticism that such a large percentage of the funds need to be allocated only to this central part of Slovenia, with all due respect for these institutions, so I would like to plead that we are trying to support the amendment to Annex 3. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you. Mrs. Nigga. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you very much. To avoid ambiguity, my colleague Podobnik would just like to say that Ljubljana is in the past, that is to say in the law that we are changing and supplementing today, has the opportunity to make only one investment in the castle segment. The city of Fužine. They would not believe the amount that Ljubljana received from the Ministry of Culture for the realization of the cultural tolar is 28 million 490. The same, identical share of Ljubljana is intended for part of the rehabilitation of the Fužin castle. This is not yet a complete investment and will continue, as you can see below. Ljubljana did not have any libraries in the past, even though it has five. And he must have a bunch of problems that are unresolved and a bunch of unsolved libraries. One has even lost its premises in the process of denationalisation and is now in one way threatened because in 2003 the lease contract for the Oton Župančič library is terminated. Just as much as information. So about what colleagues Jerovšek and Mr. Pučnik are [[?]] , said that Ljubljana is privileged in one way and that it is an elite culture, I think not in this segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you. Anybody else want a debate? Mr. Sponik and Mr. Skolč.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u231	Thank you very much. Yes, Ljubljana has a lot of cultural problems and it is right to solve them and the law solves them. And that's good. It's 6 billion tolars for two institutions. For 6 billion. And if we give out 6 billion, 300 million away, or anything substantial will happen. It's just a dilemma.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you. Mr. Sculpture. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u233	Of course it's a misunderstanding. When we're talking about Opera and Ballet and when we're talking about SNG Drama, I could count something else, then it's worth reminding my colleagues that these aren't Ljubljana institutions. These are the national institutions and those who are talking about national competitiveness, these are precisely the institutions that were created, some at the beginning of the century, and some of these other institutions of today's national institutions have established this confidence that they later became the Ljubljana centre of the Slovenians and that they later became the centre of the Republic and the end of the country's centre. All these things are not as uniform as they seem today. As far as the proposal is concerned, the city should be provided with 5 per cent of the funds. Of course, we can agree on that, but this is again a blurring of the situation. This is not the subject of this law. Legislation is also made by dividing the obligations between the founders, who once are the municipalities, secondly the state.The founder of these two institutions is the state. And these two institutions are, if we look at them within a spectrum of drama theatres, they're almost the worst. They have better conditions in Maribor and better conditions for working in Gorica, which is nothing wrong, so that we do not misunderstand. Both investments, both in Maribor and in Gorica, were co-financed by the state budget. A number of institutions in Ljubljana were entirely, which was of regional importance to us to use this terminology, it was fully financed by the municipality or earlier by those five municipalities. The library, where they could be compared, the library created behind Bežigrad was, I think, more than 95% funded from the city budget, could definitely compete as in Gorica, as it competed in Murski Sobota, as it competed in Nový Grad and so on. The relationship between the city and the state is then balanced here. The restoration of the Turja Palace, where the city museum covers all the way to Kočev, I think that certain things are also for one part of Gorenjska, in order not to miss any municipality, is being renovated again with the majority money of the city. In this debate on Table 3, it is said about these two projects, but it is only worth thinking that, outwardly, Slovenia will be represented, hypothetically speaking, by a national theatre. Here is just the question whether the state as the founder wants to provide conditions for this to really work and whether we want Oprah. And it's not true that we can, say, get things out of Opera from three to two billion, because here we need to know that a decent stage for such a house costs more, with all this technology. It's not a question of shells, it's a technology that supports the opera. True, these are, of course, huge amounts, compared to when someone is building a foundation for the library. But if it is not, these central institutions, which maintain some high standard, cannot do this thing down, so it would seem reasonable to me that these types of interventions would, at least, give up the argument that they are interfering with Ljubljana because they are actually interfering with national institutions. This is similar to the discussions on the budget when the government, for example, intervened in the budget of the National Assembly for years and years. And we were all appalled here how this was possible, why it wasn't arranged elsewhere. There are certain things that, if we want them to be representative, should be arranged in a proper manner. From my behavior about these things, this money is too small for these two institutions. The backlogs, however, were made with some calculation to move forward with the Slovenian Philharmonic, which celebrated the 300th anniversary, and to continue with the National Gallery or this binding tract. If we looked at the sum of money in these two institutions, it would also prove to be a significant contribution from the Ljubljana municipality. But don't pull me by my tongue right now, exactly how much money has been invested. It was, by all probability, more than 5% in both cases.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you, Comrade Sculpture. The next one wants to discuss Comrade Kremjar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I do not like to object to certain things when my colleague, Školč, discusses, because mostly with the vast majority of things he says, I also very deeply agree. But some things, however, are not as strong and as simple as the ones we've learned from this, and it would be good to draw attention to that too. The definition of national importance is, in my opinion, more widespread and not as simple and as clear as it is to hear from this debate, in all areas where we define national interest, representation on behalf of the State, on behalf of this national interest and, of course, of this emerging national function. This is some story that I don't think is finished, which is hard to connect to a location that is more related to content and what these institutions are doing. And national content can, of course, be very widely distributed, and mainly, throughout this country, through many institutions; here we could list from library activity, of course, now we have talked about theatres, radio and television programmes and so on. I think that things aren't as clever in themselves and you should look at them a little bit more and even through these cultural and different tolars you see, but not in advance you already define, that's it, that's it, and things are absolutely clear that they are what they are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you. One more time, buddy Skull. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u237	I would like to tell those who are not able to read the law accurately that it exists in other lists, not in what we are discussing, a large number of projects that are 100 % funded and outside of Ljubljana and meet the same criteria, as I believe national operas and national theatres fit. And allow me, Mr. Kremjar, to assure you that you are wrong. Let's say if you look at this table 1, then you'll see that all of what is hierarchy, all of these three projects are marked as a national project, none of them are in Ljubljana, and all three are 100 percent funded from the state budget. On the next page you have Bizelska, I will only read those that are 100 percent to make it absolutely clear that this is not the case, in the whole context of the law, there is no imbalance. Biseljska has 200 million for Oresje, Dornava has 300, it is proposed for 600. At the same time, it is true to say that there are no completely clear projects, what to do with it and that the question is, by my understanding, whether to invest more or keep the monument only before further deterioration. Then you have in Castle Castle for 150 million, in Kostel the same castle with 100 million, in Podsmeda Castle with 100 million, in Lower Slemen Castle Viltuš with 300 million, Vipovje with 300 million, Gradac with 300 million, Hmeljnik with 200 million - these are only one side. And I wouldn't bother you with the other three, where the situation is very similar. But 100% of the country's funding in these cases is due to the fact that the monuments are of national importance, in particular and in the appropriate ownership, and therefore also to the corresponding responsibility. Therefore, the argument for the amendment of the SLS colleagues cannot be upheld, because otherwise it is necessary to look at all of these, but if someone could give something if they were trading like this. I don't think that makes any sense. That's why I said at the outset that I'm in favour of keeping the marriage open and I'm in favour of clearing it up and certain things that don't belong inside, especially out.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u238	Thank you. Now the replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u239	I have to say this way that I really agree with my colleague Skolcz. In fact, Ljubljana has not one castle, but more towns. Those who know Ljubljana well and the history of financing the reconstruction of Ljubljana Castle know how long it has been and that it has been a lasting investment for 30 years and that it will be bottomless and that it will continue and you know that we will bring most tourists to Ljubljana, to bring most diplomats to Ljubljana, and I don't know what else, but despite all this Ljubljana Castle is not in it and everyone else. So, comrade Kremjar, that's right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u240	Thank you. And Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u241	I would like to discuss once again the amendment to Table 3. I'm not a connoisseur of what detailed plans are with the Dornava Castle, but what my colleague Trofenik, who unfortunately had to apologize, told me is plans that would withstand a serious professional opinion. He says that unfortunately with 300 million, it will be almost impossible to do anything essential for some of the key interventions that are connected, even if I am not mistaken, to this geomechanical or static rehabilitation of the building. If I'm not mistaken, it was one of the reasons they had to move out of there because it was dangerous. But the second question, which is related and of course, is not about trade, and indeed, the law provides that quite a few projects are 100% funded and I think it is right that this is the right thing to say that what colleague Školč said is funding 100%, because I do not imagine that the castle of Kostel would be partly loaded to say the municipality of Kostel, because we both know that. If we go to see, say, when they were rebuilding an opera in Vienna, or when they went to rebuild an important cultural institution in Paris or in Rome, I am not sure that part of it was also co-financed by the city authorities or, in this case, by regional, provincial authorities. The rule that capitals have such a strong economic base, so much activity, by its very nature, that the functioning of the state literally pushes into the centre, at the right approach, that 10%, 5% of the share of the "little lunch" for the city authorities, comes together at 3 or 6 billion. It's really very small money. At the same time, this is another positive commitment between the city authorities and the state. This applies to the capitals. The capitals have a special symbiosis with the country as well as with politics and with Parliament and with the government. Such an approach generally works positively. If we jump to another level, which is called the principle of how politics works. I am sure that in the past it might have been too little done in Ljubljana. [[…]] We won't say why. We're not spilling any ash. We will say nothing that some Ljubljana Members could be more active. This can't be it at all. But I am convinced that the Ljubljana budget is able to participate in a number of investments in education, science, culture and other areas. And Ljubljana won't lose anything. On the contrary, the symbiosis between Ljubljana and Slovenia, as such, will increase. I'm pretty sure of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u242	Thank you. I take it there's no desire to discuss it anymore. And Mrs. Majda Shirtz. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u243	I would like to point out only one thing that is possible even in great symbiosis with what has been happening or which will result in us facing if we implement once-in-a-lifetime law on the realization of public interest in the field of culture and we want to enlighten it only in terms of today's debate on this segment, how much and how much the municipalities participate in, or how many countries participate in, individual infrastructure investments. Why am I talking about this? Because the pain that will arise at a time when, in an unpaid way, in the regulation of the establishment relationship, as in the new law, it will be passed on or passed on to the country, in particular to the country, probably in very small cases to the municipality, an investment in which so many dilemmas have been incorporated and so many problems have been encountered when local communities have decided how much and what they will invest in. For example, today there is actually a debate, more or less at that level, where there is talk of how much the country participates and how much the local community participates in a given infrastructure. I wonder if this discussion is then in the light of the fact that, once in the future, one such investment will be able to pass on in an unpaid way to one carrier, as meaningful and as much at the forefront as it is in fact, given the pain resulting from this debate. I'm just warning each other about this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u244	Thank you very much. My colleague Mogo, and then again, Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u245	I've been quiet for a long time, but this whole committee debate has already taken place in this light. If we respect legislation, if we respect the law on the financing of municipalities, which tells us how much work and when the local community is co-financed in the construction, if we respect the existing law on public interest in the field of culture, then this amendment does not have the legal coverage under which we could vote. However, it is possible that what was also used in some other segments to be a financier, which is certainly the founder, that is, the government or through the Ministry, has agreed with the local community that it has given these benefits, such as municipally equipped land or perhaps something else. On this basis, much more could be built than could otherwise be built. And it is certain that such an approach would be applied. And I think that because a team that runs investments at the Ministry of Culture, with some recent successes, and from Philharmonic to Metelkov's, the ethnographic museum, to a bunch of libraries, will be able to use such receptions so that, by the way, even in these columns, the amount that may be too high and the ministry will have free hands to redistribute it anywhere else. These amounts are absolutely not limited at all, because I do not know any project in the Tolar that was provided with a certain amount of money, that the sum was then sufficient, but those things were always moving. That's why I don't think it's appropriate, I repeat, this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u246	And Mrs. Nigga.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u247	Thank you very much. In fact, I have to react to what Comrade Podobnik said about Ljubljana and Ljubljana's culture is "a little snack" to do, I don't know what investments and all that's left because it's not been made in the past. Ljubljana's culture and the budget of Ljubljana's culture, for example, I've been monitoring for 20 years, and I'll tell you, it's been bad before and now it's the same. For each project, whether it was a theatre activity or a gallery activity, museums, librarianism, there was always a lot of work, lobbying, looking for supporters to see what had happened. And it's not that easy, especially for culture. And not in Ljubljana, because Ljubljana, unlike the other municipalities, except for what I know, Maribor and Nova Gorica, still has its own urban culture, has its own alternative culture, as in others, for example, village municipalities and smaller municipalities are not so developed. And Ljubljana has to pay for it, you know. So everything in Ljubljana is not as simple as it looks. And I'll tell you that there are a lot of objects, from the Modern Gallery, that need fundamental renovations. These renovations cost almost as a new building. And not to go on, that's a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u248	Thank you. A replica, Comrade Squire? Please. You still have some time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u249	It is difficult for culture everywhere, and it is also difficult for culture in Ljubljana. But I'm sure that when it comes to investment, it's not an item that goes directly from a culture action item, but it's money for investment. And if Ljubljana received two investments over the next five years, which are 6 billion, I am sure that it would get 300 million, but I am 100% sure - and this will be possible, however, the mayor or the mayor will find, will find this money. If we do not today - I fear that today, because then the debate will be over, there will be no amendment adopted, then, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will propose that we vote on - no, one day should rest if I am not mistaken. We can pass this law on Friday. Let's get one amendment adopted today, and I have the impression that we're not going to be any. Let's at least work on the amendment to Annex 3 - this is my proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u250	Thank you. Your time is up, fellow LDS [[before was a character]] . Nobody wants a word anymore, so I am closing the debate on the amendments. The vote will take place at 8:05 p.m., until then I shall give a recess and interrupt this agenda item. So, at 20.05 a.m., we continue to vote on all matters of today.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u251	May I have your attention in the hall, please? We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. On the 1st item of the agenda, i.e. on questions and initiatives by Members and Members... I beg for peace in the hall, or I will not continue to chair the session! Can I count on being kind to make decisions? Ambassador Sašo Peče proposed a decision, which reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the reply of the Minister of Finance to the Saš Pečet's question on the public debt of the Republic of Slovenia." We're voting. May I have your attention in the hall, please? 70 in attendance, 29 in and 37 in. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. We will now decide on a proposal for a decision by Mr Branko Kelemina, a fellow Member, which reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to the Member of Parliament's question on the issue of regional development." We're voting. 69 present, 30 for and 31 for. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 31.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has not received the necessary support. We are also deciding on a proposal for a decision by our fellow Member, Dr. Andrey Bajuk, which reads: "The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Economy to the question by Dr. Andrey Bajuk concerning the business of Elan Begunje." We're voting. Excuse me, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u252	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The answer of the Minister of Economy to my question about the management contract of Elan is, in essence, unsatisfactory. Apparently there is some kind of contract, as the Minister revealed the names of the signatories, namely, the President of the Supervisory Board of Elana, Mr Korže, as the manager of Korže d.o.o. and the unnamed President of the Turbo Hydro Assembly. What the Minister did not say, however, is that Turbo Hydro is majority owned by the SRD, so he must have signed a state official on his behalf. The Minister did not explain why the Slovenian Development Company signed the contract through its company Turbo Hydro. Nor did it explain why this contract was extended until 2004, as Mr Šimnovec recently stated, which is leading the liquidation of the SRD, even though the government is supposed to include this company, so to speak, Elan, among those who have filled the so-called privatisation cord. At the same time, she stated that the rehabilitation of Elan was led by the SRD, on the basis of a government decision adopted at the 147th meeting, on 17 February 2000, at which the government, and I quote here, "received information on SRD activities related to the financial and business recovery of the Elan system with a view to maintaining jobs and maintaining the Elan brand". This was supported by SRD's involvement in this rehabilitation. For this rehabilitation project, the Slovenian state then allocated about 5.2 billion siti. Madam Minister said that Elena's rehabilitation was led by the Slovenian Development Society, and I quote this, "when she was still independent". Such a statement is unacceptable and essentially misleading. I would like to draw attention to the fact that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is actually an assembly of the SRD, that it appoints all the members of the Supervisory Board and that on this basis it is already responsible for their functioning in our assessment. It further stated that the Government had found that the members of the Supervisory Board were not involved in the profit. However, in order to ensure that the award is awarded to the administration of individual companies, that it has never been discussed and that the award is carried out, it can be shared in accordance with the law, with the GAG. Dear colleagues and colleagues, who is responsible for harmful transactions in state property? Personally, I have no prejudices to adequately pay to successful management. But all I have to say is that in my long professional path, I have never heard of such a contract, which in addition to wages, is that, according to some data, between 12 thousand and 18 thousand 'deutsche mark', the award is awarded for 50 per cent of two financial statements: profits and depreciation. This National Assembly must [[the warning sign for the end.]] to deal with this information in a responsible manner. The whole contract and all the information necessary to understand this unfortunate contract must be sent to the National Assembly and subject to a thorough discussion. Slovenian taxpayers expect nothing less than us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u253	Dr. Bayuk. Dr. Bayuk's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u254	If this decision is not adopted by this State Assembly, it will be done in the same way as our government, apparently hiding behind empty concepts of autonomy. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u255	My friend, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u256	the business of companies whose sole owner is. [[...]] Thank you for your patience, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u257	My friend Peche wants to explain his voice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u258	In the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a hearing at the next meeting tabled yesterday by Mr Bayuk, as we supported both of the proposals so far. The first one is my public debt, where yesterday's debate took place, and the second one was from Mr Kelemina when he spoke about regional development. But I would just like to highlight in this explanation my voice or take advantage of - Mr Bajuk, Mr Bajuk, you said earlier, responsible behaviour. Do you really expect responsible conduct from this national assembly? If this national assembly were to act responsibly, I would place all the points at the next meeting of the national assembly, and we would talk about it! Sadly, however, there is no responsibility in this national assembly. We'll support your proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u259	Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u260	Thank you very much, Mr President, distinguished colleagues, colleagues. I fully agree that the reply of the Government or the Minister was completely unsatisfactory and that, in this case, the conclusion of contracts and many more, corruption should be discussed at a future meeting. The national television has just shown us the cut of the prizes and I must say that I doubt that any Slovenian worker who receives forty-five thousand tolars a month will be convinced on the road, in the short run, that this is how the management work is rewarded. The only one who would be eligible for an extra prize, if already in this case, would be my colleague, Mr Pukšič, who, with an investigative commission, pointed to a corrupt criminal act in the previous period in Elan, but now about the same people share enormous sums of money. Elana wouldn't be without Puksich. We know that at the time it became a force for someone and that they sent 40 million marks to the development society overnight. We know how it went. And without his commission, elan wouldn't be. However, even if it were not in Slovenian hands, the money would flow through straw owners in approximately the same pockets. That's the truth. And I hope that the National Assembly will not allow itself to support this corruption, these matters. In fact, yesterday I pointed out what the global organisation of the parliaments of the world, the seventy parliaments, is going to be able to fight corruption only with the public at work, with television broadcasts and so on. And I hope that this meeting will be held for the second time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u261	Thank you very much. My friend Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u262	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I will personally support this proposal, which has been proposed by my fellow Member, Mr Bayuk. Not because of the Minister's statement. We witnessed a media lynch recently due to personal income over one of the presidential candidates. Today we have witnessed, and we have heard that some in this country share over 100 million prizes because they participate in the supervisory world. And that's no reason for me to vote yes. The reason is my personal and as a Member I feel obliged and responsible, and I hope that there is at least a little more parliamentary democracy in this Chamber and at least a little more parliamentary spirit that you, honourable Members, care about what happens to and how it is managed by the state. That is why I would really like to hear in this Chamber a representative of the government that I will receive a thorough report, that I will not believe in one another, nor in the other, or in the media, but that official report from the government that I will be able to be a parliamentarian - and I hope that at least a little more democracy in this Chamber - has asked some government representatives whether it is true or not or where those reasons are that individuals can afford to pay such awards. I will therefore personally support this proposal and, once again, honourable fellow Members, I appeal to you that this parliamentary spirit comes to you, and that such a problem as we have or have been briefed on, let us also raise in Parliament and as Members, regardless of political parties, let us take note of this problem by the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u263	Thank you very much, colleague Kangler. He's a colleague of grandkids.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u264	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will also personally support this proposal, not only because Elan belongs to the Radovljica Congregation from which I come, but also because Elan has been a parade horse for a long time both Slovenian and former countries and things, all the stories around Elan have been very painful. The congregation itself helped with its own resources when there were problems, and even had problems, even being sued by the SRD, but these actions have not all fallen, they have not yet been concluded, but I believe that these matters need to be discussed, especially in the light of these differences: on the one hand, the high reward, and on the other hand, the miserable or even poor salaries of employees. Elan, however, is even more important in view of the fact that he is not only important for the development of the congregation but also for the whole region, and more broadly, as I said, in the light of the return of the brand and the name, that he will once again become a radical horse. I don't think he's allowed to be mutilated with any of those or the like, I'll say, problems. That is why I will, of course, support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u265	I'm asking for peace in the hall. My friend Pukšič now has the floor to explain his voice. Please, you have the floor, Comrade Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will also support the proposal for a public debate at the next meeting. The Slovenian proverb says that if not sooner, it will come in handy in seven years. And if you are telling the truth, this truth will once see the light of the world; it will obviously be sooner than after seven years, that is, after three years of the work of our parliamentary commission of inquiry in the previous term, who could not report for the illegality that occurred at that time in the National Assembly itself. I would just like to say that, of course, I don't want and I don't need any reward, but, of course, these funds would necessarily be directed to the Les bank savers who have been cheated, and these are the first beneficiaries to get these funds back, and the next are workers and workers with 50 or less thousand tolars to pay in this country.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u267	Please, colleague Maximilian Lavrinz. All the rest of you don't have a word. Comrade Lavrinz has one word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u268	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. It all seems to me like a bird's-eye suit, or in that case, I'd say a bird's-eye suit. Everyone here ate their pain, and I could, after all, I was [[...]] [[The announcement of Ambassador Jerovsk from the bench.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u269	I'm asking for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u270	Mr Jerovšek, I would have, after all, been one of those who gave the initiative - now I will give a little commendation - for having even started the procedure for buying Elan back, even though I knew it would be expensive, it was not cheap. [[...]] And, of course, because I despise this kind of treatment of money created not only by managers, but also by someone else, I will support such a proposal; unfortunately, without the hope of knowing the names of those responsible who have cooked it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u271	Please, first my friend Kelemin, then my colleague Partlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I will certainly support this proposal myself, not because I would consider those who have received or will receive huge sums of some money, perhaps unearned money - or even, I don't know - but because it is more responsible for such action, for such action on those who rule in this country, especially on the Prime Minister who has allowed all these matters. Today, of course, it is not appropriate that, in view of the elections that are coming, it is possible to malign the Prime Minister, who will become President of the State and so on, and this will have a bad impact on his candidacy, but it is simply necessary to clarify these matters and to find that the Prime Minister is the most responsible for these matters and does not act. What is this figure out there that does not act and does not have control over the drastic moves that are taking place in this country in the area of ownership? That's not what the living world saw! I think it is imperative that these things be cleared up and seen who actually has all his fingers or who is most responsible. I am surprised, however, that there is no money or that Members of Parliament are not supporting a proposal, for example, for regional development or at least discussions on this, about some regional development and the implementation of the law, but I see here in the budget that 19 billion more will be involved in some new building of the police administration and so on and 10 billion is not for regional development. And that's absurd, what's going on in this country! You, Members of Parliament, support this. That's crazy, at least crazy, if not other!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u273	I would like to say that it is difficult to speak in a hall where many other colleagues speak with the only one who has a word. And I will not give you my word until the hall is calmed down. I think everyone who talks has the same right to remain silent in his speech. Please. Then it gets too loud, the noise gets worse, and it becomes impossible to work in the hall. My friend Partich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u274	Otherwise, I'm just going to say for a minute how I'm going to vote. However, I would say that part of the debate has already begun and is now a completely unnecessary accusation from left to right and vice versa. I know that it is in our - please - I know that it has also been rejected in our group and my interest is, of course, the same. And from the very first moment, I intend to support Mr Bayuk's proposal. But if this is how we're going to do it, I believe we're going to get the right result. But I think it needs to be explained and broken down.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u275	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[Nobody.]] The National Assembly will vote on the proposal for a decision by Mr Andrej Bajuk. We're voting. Peace in the hall. We're in the middle of a vote. 66 present. 55 for and 9 for [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I hereby conclude the first item of the agenda of the October session. Please, procedurally. Please, buddy Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u276	Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u277	Comrade Jerovšek, I apologize.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u278	Mr President, as I do not know, you may have intended to put to the vote my procedural proposal yesterday, which I requested today to vote on. I insist on a procedural proposal, especially after this point, when we find out how widespread corruption is in Slovenia. And that's why [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u279	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u280	Well, it's me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u281	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u282	And I have to tell you again. [[...]] In fact, given that this organisation is global in Parliament to fight corruption, it recommended that they be the only means of Members, a good tool in the fight against corruption, a television broadcast of meetings and absolutely, this is a complete, television transmission of the questions sent. Yesterday, I proposed that when we begin the meeting on Mondays, we begin at one o'clock and that, at two o'clock, the parliamentary issues to be referred to the leadership of the National Assembly, please make sure that they are transmitted directly to the end of the questions sent. In addition, I would suggest answering the Prime Minister, but they start at 3 p.m. and there are already some questions in order. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u283	My colleague Jerovšek, I would like to explain to you that I cannot put your proposal to the vote for procedural reasons because it is not within the competence of the State Council, that national television will or will not be accepted - or I can explain - by the assembly. Can I explain why I cannot put this decision to the vote? Because it is not in our jurisdiction that the public institution of RTV respects this proposal or not. This is a matter for the college to decide. We have discussed this issue several times in college. Finally, they decided that there would be parliamentary questions on Monday at 3 p.m. And with national television, it took quite some time to align both their programming options and our possibilities so that it could be three hours of direct transmission. This is why the National Assembly cannot conclude this today, but we can continue to talk to the College when we have the possibility or the impossibility of national television to adopt such a proposal. I cannot therefore put your proposal to the vote. But I promise I'll put him in college and we'll talk about him. That's impossible! I'm asking for peace in the hall. A fellow schoolboy.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u284	I apologize in advance for my abuse of your giving me your word, but I protest against both: not a matter of college, not a matter of MEP Jerovsk, nor a matter of the national assembly, nor of the national television programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u285	Just so we're clear, fellow schoolboy, I specifically said that. The College may consult on when to start or not with questions from the Member States. But the thing about national television is - it's exclusively in its jurisdiction - whether it's going to follow some kind of agreement or not. Comrade Jerovšek, I want some things to be clarified that there is no shadow of some decisions of the National Assembly. Therefore, once again, I say clearly and loudly: whether national television will tolerate this or that meeting, this or that item of the agenda, the National Assembly, neither the President nor the College shall decide. This is a sovereign decision of national television as a public agency. However, if the college expresses such an interest, we can express our wish and we have done so so far. And national television made its own final decision. We're on agenda two. No amendments were tabled in the supplementary proposal for the Explosives Act. The assembly on this item shall not vote in the context of the second reading. We are at the third point, in the middle of the continuation of the 3rd point, so for the second reading of the proposed law on amendments and additions to the law on detective activity. We are in the decision-making process on the amendments tabled. We vote on the amendment to Article 3. We're gathered. Can the National Assembly decide that? Can I have your attention, please? We're at point three. We vote on the amendment to Article 3. Please. 71 in attendance, 23 in and 43 in. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. That's how we ended up voting on the amendments. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft law, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will hold a third hearing on the proposal for a law on Friday, 25 of this month. This concludes this agenda item. We're at point four. No amendments have been tabled in the European Parliament of the Republic of Slovenia on the draft law on parliamentary elections. The assembly on this item shall not vote in the context of the second reading. At point 5, we continue to secondly examine the draft law on amendments and amendments to the law on citizenship and move on to a decision on the amendment tabled. We vote on the amendment to Article 3. Please. 70 present, 23 for, 43 versus. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 43.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. As no amendment to the draft law has been adopted, the assembly, in accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, will hold a third consideration of the proposal on Friday this week. We're at 6th and 7th. Since no amendments have been tabled to the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Procedure and to the Act on Cooperation between the Republic of Slovenia and the International Court of Justice, the Assembly will not vote on these two points in the second reading. So we are at point 8 and decisions related to it. This is a second reading of the proposal for a law on the realization of public interest in culture. May I have your attention, please? We are ahead of the vote on the series of articles or amendments that have been tabled. We will first vote on the amendments tabled, in accordance with the order set out in Article 10. We are voting on the amendment to Article 10. 68 in attendance, 39 in and 23 in. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Article 16 - does anyone want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We vote on the amendment to Article 16. 64 present, 43 to and 9 to. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the amendment was adopted. Let's go to Article 28. We're voting on the amendment. 68 present, 48 for and 6 for. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the first amendment to Article 34. We're voting. Please! Attention in the hall. We vote on the first amendment to Article 34. 68 present, 5 for and 48 vs. [[The vote was 5.]] [[Against 48.]] I'm guessing the amendment didn't receive the necessary support. We vote on the second amendment to Article 34. Peace in the hall! 64 present, 43 for and 6 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. We have an amendment to Article 42. We're voting. 64 in attendance, 4 in and 46 in. [[Four votes in favour.]] [[Against 46.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We're at Article 43 and we're here to propose an amendment. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment to Article 43. 65 in attendance, 4 in and 47 in. [[The vote was 4.]] [[Against 47.]] He didn't get the support he needed. We are voting on the amendment to Article 44. We're voting. We are in the middle of the vote on the amendment to Article 44. 65 present, 3 for and 48 vs. [[The vote was 3.]] [[Against 48.]] He didn't get any support. We will now vote on the amendment to Article 44. We're voting. Article 44 shall be put to the vote. 67 present, none in favour, 52 against. [[The vote was 0.]] [[Against 52.]] I'm guessing he wasn't accepted. We vote on the amendment to Article 59. We're voting. 68 in attendance, 41 in and 13 in. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 13.]] I'm guessing he's got support. We will vote on the proposal for a new Article 87. A fellow schoolboy. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u286	Thank you very much. I would like to remind colleagues, in particular those who have not listened to this several times, that the adoption of this article would actually bring back the discussion step back for what the mother's working body has already done, which has gone and has eliminated the censorship of the freebies as a criterion when someone gains or loses this status. The reasons for this are, I will say, purely conceptual in nature, because I believe that the issue of promoting the freedom of freedom is a concept, not a social issue. If this is a social issue, then it should be transferred to another ministry, and I suppose that if we were to transfer it to another ministry, this country would cost significantly more than it costs at this point in time with these solutions. There is some unjustified fear here that if the censorship is lifted, then everyone who registers will also become free. This is simply not true because it is that the right to pay contributions is given to those whom the Minister or the Minister considers to be deficient on the one hand and to achieve the highest results on the other. But censorship brings in, I'll say, something that we're afraid of with the excellence that's supposed to be, we're afraid of success. That's why I object. If that were not the case, if there were no question of the criteria to which these rights were allocated, then there would also be no question of money at the Ministry. Because, see, with the solution that the Ministry had the censorship, - I obtained data from the fifth hour until now from 1992 to 2001 - and in 1992 it was, I will round up, 124 million realized for this purpose, and in 2001 642, it is said, 5.2 times more. This means that something is wrong with the criteria, because growth would not be so expansive if we only get the best and only excellent. That is why I believe that it is appropriate to support excellence and that those who are good are valid to hunt where everyone else is, and where they are, paying you now; it is said, with income and taxes or taxes on copyright contracts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u287	Thank you very much. Buddy Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Of course, I will, Your Honor, support this article and also the next article, the next article, 89th or the amendment, to these two articles. Mr Školč - but the explanation must not be politicized, of course - so it is not only the concept of this solution, but it is also, or above all, a social issue. In fact, I do not think it makes sense for all artists who have the status of a free artist to pay all the rights under this title from the state budget. I think it is right to take account of this income price here, because, moreover, the state budget for culture does not have sufficient resources to cover all these rights arising from the loss of income. I will therefore support the amendment to Article 87, and also Article 89, so that I will not have to be re-enlisted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u289	Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will vote on the proposal for a new 87a. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 68 present, 35 for and 17 for. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're at Article 89 and we're here to propose an amendment. I always look around the hall, see if anyone raises their hand. If I move too fast to the vote, let me know. We're voting. 68 present, 40 for and 16 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 16.]] I take it the amendment has received the necessary support. We have two amendments to Article 144. We will first vote on the first amendment to Article 144. We're voting. 68 in attendance, 45 in and 7 in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the seven.]] The first amendment received support. We will vote another - another has become irrelevant. We have an amendment to Article 150. We're voting. 66 present. 40 for and 48 for. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 48.]] I take it that the amendment to Article 150 did not receive any support. Procedurally. Would you like a word, Madam Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u290	Thank you so much for saying that. Under Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I would suggest that, on the basis of the seven amendments adopted, there are much less than 5 per cent of the amendments proposed for the bill. Therefore, I also propose to the National Assembly that the third reading of such a law take place at the same meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u291	Therefore, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, a third consideration of the draft law should be held at this meeting. We will move on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members and Members present. Please explain, of course, as in any vote. Comrade Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u292	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister. In the debate itself, we have found that the law needs to be rectified, that the law covering cultural heritage will cover the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. I'm sorry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u293	Thank you. Apology accepted. I'm asking for peace in the hall. I think it's human to be wrong. Please, whether anyone else wants to explain their vote or if we can get to the vote. Once again, there will be no misunderstandings. A decision will not be taken if more than one third of the colleagues present oppose it. Please, you wish to speak to my colleague Barovic for explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u294	Yeah. Thank you very much. I'd tell my respects to my colleagues. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u295	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u296	That's all. [[...]] I expect everyone to support the Minister's proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u297	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u298	For her proposal is perfectly correct on the basis of the new rules of procedure which they have formulated and enforced, and of course they have only voted - you know who. [[...]] And I'll be very surprised if they're against this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u299	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] We're voting. Peace in the hall. 69 present. 47 for and 16 for. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 16.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. This Friday will be the third consideration of the bill by the National Assembly, i.e. 25.10. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. So I'm breaking up with this agenda. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is the continuation of the second defence proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Funding for Certain Urgent Programmes of the Republic of Slovenia in Culture. We will move on to a decision on the amendments tabled. I request an assembly in this vote. Attention, please! I will try to take into account all your wishes for discussion and clarification. We will patiently go through the vote. The will of the National Assembly must be clear when voting, but a slightly more difficult vote. Comrade Shirtz wants a word, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u300	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have spoken correctly and said that there is a need for some concentration in this vote, because the matter referred to in Article 2 which I suppose you will open now is linked, closely linked to the annex on the other hand from the 16.10. review of the amendments. Therefore, I would like to explain paragraph 2 or 2 of Article 2 to explain my vote as a proposaler and as a Member of Parliament as a matter of fact, as a result of the misunderstandings that have, in fact, proved to be already in the context of the consideration of the law. I will point out that the first point of Article 2 intervenes in the table of Annex 1 and means that the Group of Members is applying the proposal for co-financing and for inclusion in the Annex to Table 1 also of the Lantieri Castle, which would mean that the whole of the Tolar budget will increase by 170 million to the State's investment account. Point 2 of Article 2 means that it would reach out to Table 1 on the Castle item, for 188 million on the municipal budget and half of the state budget 94 plus 94 for the Lože Castle. Point 3 intervenes in Table 1 under the heading archaeology and means an additional budget of only 25 million for which we are the archaeological site of Vache, which we have found to be meaningful in the debate to invest in a regular programme. In short, if I summarise that paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 to Article 2 are the same, it is not appropriate to support and I will do so myself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Comrade Shirtz. Anyone else want a word? We are in Article 2, we have an amendment under order number 1, under order number 2, and order number 3. Anyone else want a word, I ask? We will also make decisions in this order. I'm saying that decision-making is a little more difficult. We also have the plates. It is important that the National Assembly, in each vote, knows what the consistency of its decisions will be. We vote on the first amendment to Article 2. Please vote. 64 present, 17 to 41. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the amendment did not receive the necessary support and thus not the first amendment to Table 1. Is that right? Thank you very much. We vote on the second amendment to Article 2. 68 in attendance, 19 in, 40 in. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the amendment did not receive the necessary support and thus not the other amendment to the Annex to Table 1. Thus, we can now move to a vote on the third amendment to Article 2. We're voting. 67 present, 19 for and 38 for. [[The vote was 19.]] [[Against 38.]] I note that the amendment has not received support and therefore not the third amendment to the annex to Table 1 - Fourth Amendment, Table 1, and the annex table - the dynamics of State resources. Please, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u302	I'll explain my voice this time, too, because of the interlacing of matter. Proposal [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u303	Just a moment, Shirtz's colleague. Now, in which vote do you explain your vote? I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u304	We are at Table 1, under point [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u305	Yeah, I haven't put her to the vote yet, that's why. Please. Just so we know: by not voting the amendments to Article 2, they have become - just a moment. Therefore, they become irrelevant to the annex 1, 2, 3, 4 - we therefore vote on the fifth amendment to the annex to Table 1. Would you like a word now, Comrade Shirtz? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u306	That's what I wanted, yeah. The 5th point of Table 1 is related - I apologize - to the last amendment we have on page 5 of the Annex to Table 3. As it brings a certain imbalance, as well as another additional threat which could then be challenged by many, at least with regard to Table 3, support for such an amendment or correction is very risky. It is an intervention in the dynamics of Dornava, Dornava Castle, where the state funds are expected to increase by 300 million; it is said that there would be 600 plus 300, not 300 plus 300 shares. Of course, such an intervention is questionable because purpose has not yet been determined, as well as a number of other questions in this place that would not have been raised. There would certainly also be a major intervention in those items that are now covered in Table 3 which mean a reduction in the funds for the construction of the Opera base in Ljubljana and the construction of the Drama base in Ljubljana, which would then follow this proposal into the Dornov castle. In this sense, this breach of one of the criteria of a certain way would be undermined. And in this sense, it is not appropriate to support this dynamic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u307	Comrade Podobnik, colleague Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u308	Thank you very much. I don't see any, there's no risk if the National Assembly accepts [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u309	Peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u310	the amendment under point 5 and no specific imbalances will occur. [[...]] In particular, the city municipality of Ljubljana will contribute 5 per cent to Drama and 5 per cent to Oprah. And that imbalance is about to happen. And we have every political opportunity to support this. I will vote in favour of this amendment. And I would suggest, President, that some Members do not have special status. We can only explain our voice here, but we have no special status, some ex-department. Some of us are somehow teaching how to vote. This isn't about the rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u311	I don't have that feeling. Each of us has the same option, the same right to explain at this point how he will vote. And if he finds out that someone is not discussing it in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I will remind him. My friend Jerovšek wants a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u312	Thank you very much. I will support this amendment, but at the same time I note and join Mr Podobnik's opinion that today, in the absence of consistent rules of procedure, we have come completely, as I also find that some State secretaries in the government are fictitious. That some former secretaries of state are still serving as secretaries of state, and they are reasoning now that there is no room for reasoning. Before that, we had no excuse when there was a debate. And I would really like this power to be divided into legislative and executive powers, so that we know in a transparent way what we are discussing, what we are discussing. And in fact, I don't need instructions to explain my voice from the former secretary of state. I hope so. And once again, nothing seems wrong with this proposal and I will, of course, support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u313	Each of us has a style of speaking and giving. In any case, this should not be offensive to any of us or anyone else, nor should it be spoken in such a tone that anyone can so understand. Please respect these differences and be patient in listening to arguments. My friend Skull wanted a word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u314	Thank you very much. I will object to this amendment mainly because the arguments "for", very weak arguments - if someone can finance it because they have enough money - do not stand at the point when we talk about the institution's obligations. The founders of the vis-a-vis Drama and Opera are unequivocal and the obligations of the Republic of Slovenia are carried out by the Ministry of Culture.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u315	Peace in the hall! Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u316	I thank you for this, and I certainly have no doubt that this silence will take place. The reason that someone has money is not a good reason to finance what isn't theirs. The second reason why these items remain intact is that all other items, where national important monuments are concerned, remain intact. Otherwise, the participation of municipalities should be requested elsewhere, perhaps in a smaller percentage, but could. A third reason is that it is an erroneous belief that there is a discussion between the city congregation and other congregations. Here is a debate on national projects where the State is the founder, and on others, I will say that there are broader important projects where the founders or owners, the municipalities, are willing to assist in the resolution of this infrastructure as a whole. That's the problem. The basis of the law to burden any congregation that is not the founder is not, and all those who have spoken about it know this, and among them are those who have caused constitutional disputes on this subject and should be made clear to them that things are also logical in contrast, not just as their benefits are concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to talk? Please, mate Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I will vote against this amendment for the following reasons. In this table, there are 27 monuments under point 3 — castles, castles, and profane palaces, including Dornava, which are among the four dedicated funds of 300 or 400 million. It is said that among all 27 objects, the highest value. With this law, we will staticly and infrastructurely train all of these objects, so that this will be an incentive for economic development and also for the development of tourism in areas where these monuments are being restored, especially in the sense that these monuments will be given new owners, managers, tenants and that they themselves will invest significantly more resources once these castles are brought to life. Thus, according to the proposal of the professional service, investing in individual monuments is valued so much that we staticly and infrastructurely train all these objects and nothing else. And I think 300 million tolars, according to the Dornava Professional Service, are sufficient funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u319	My friend Puksic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u320	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll support this amendment myself. We need to know that the Dornava Palace is one of the most important cultural monuments in the whole country, but it is true that, of course, fellow Members and fellow Members know that in Dornava they do not stand at the crossroads and wait for what will happen, but for a decade, even a decade civil society has organised various events under such or different conditions, from cultural - if you want - to cleansing actions. All this and more goes and went into this castle, into the cultural monument of national importance; all this and more. Even with the funds of the Ministry of Culture, the Dornava Castle has been covered up, but this castle needs to be given its contents, and this castle needs to be given what it actually belongs to it in the national sense. Therefore, it would be unacceptable whether information on national interest in this area, in the whole area of the Republic of Slovenia, in the area of Slovenian Mountains and Haloz, would be sent differently if this amendment were opposed. That is why I would ask and I would like this amendment to be supported and thus return one part of what you are to this castle, not the castle, but what the Republic of Slovenia deserves.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u321	Anybody else want to explain their voice? I guess not. The National Assembly will now move to a vote on the 5th Amendment to the Annex, Table 1. If the amendment is not voted on, we will not vote on Table 3 below. We're voting. I'm asking for peace in the hall. 64 present, 20 for, 39 versus. [[20 votes against.]] [[The vote was 39.]] I take it this amendment has not been accepted. In this sense, as I have previously announced, the vote on the amendment to Annex 3 has become irrelevant. We vote on the sixth amendment to Table 1. We're voting. 58 in attendance, 46 in, 5 in. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the sixth amendment to the Annex to Table 1 has been adopted. We're done voting on the amendments. We've accepted an editorial amendment. She's Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u322	Thank you very much. Mr President, you have correctly established that this was an editorial amendment. One amendment was adopted, which is why I think that all the possibilities for a third hearing to be held under Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure are met.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u323	Yeah. Since the second reading of the amendments adopted was less than one-tenth of the articles of the amended bill, I propose that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, take a third reading at this meeting. It's an editorial amendment, that's the point. It's an editorial amendment. Comrade Companion, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u324	Math, math! President, math.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u325	It's an editorial amendment, that's what I'm saying is the reason for this decision. Please, let's get this straight. Comrade Companion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u326	Mr President, under what rule of the Rules of Procedure is this possibility?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u327	This is Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure. Comrade Jerovšek, did you want a word? Please, I would like to clarify, every vote must be clear and loud. Please, Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u328	Yeah, I don't know if that means anything if you're saying that it's editorial, that they're not allowed to table amendments, that's what I'm interested in. And in any case, I would like to ask that this important law, this extensive marriage - obviously I have to put in, I don't know, 10, 15 amendments, and in the context of this meeting it's almost impossible. I'm active here, the other one who doesn't have you till tonight, makes it easier for you to do this, but I want to cooperate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-22-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u329	I'm just gonna have to ask for your attention for a minute. In the light of that objection that was given, I will take it into account. We're going to end the second treatment of the law. It was more than a tenth, you said it was not just an editorial amendment - I will take this comment into account and complete the second reading. Okay. Thank you very much. That concludes today's work. We'll continue tomorrow at 10 a.m.
