ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen, I wish a nice, good day! I begin the continuation of the 16th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Janez Kramberger, Aloz Peterle, Franz Čebulj, Roberto Battelli, Zoran Gračner, Peter Levič, Michael Brejc, Slavko Gaber and Yuri Malovre to begin the session - Mr Malovre is among us. Since we're going to be able to determine the presence in the hall, I'd like to ask you to insert the cards. We'll be able to determine the presence in the hall. We're detecting a presence. There are 50 of us present, so the assembly is concluded and may decide. We invited the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, the candidate for a Constitutional Court Judge, Mr Jožet Tratnik, and representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to attend today's meeting. I welcome all the invited guests here. Today's continuation of the 16th session of the National Assembly will begin with the consideration of item 30a of the agenda, this is the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court. The assembly will then proceed to the hearing of the end of item 2. This is a proposal to call for an advisory referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the NATO Union and then to deal with matters relating to local self-government, that is, points 3 to 7a. We move on to the 30th A-point of the agenda - Defence motion by the President of the Republic of Slovenia for the election of the Judge of the Constitutional Court. By letter dated 20 May 2002, the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan, proposed that Mr Jožet Tratnik be elected as a judge of the Constitutional Court. Does the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic want to speak? [[He doesn't want to.]] The proposal was addressed by the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission as the working body of the mother. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like to speak with the representative of the secretariat? [[She's not between us.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? The opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be made by Mr Janez Podobnik. Here you go. Is there any other group that would like to present the opinion below? [[No, no, ……]] Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u2	Madam Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Cabinet of the President of the State, colleague and colleague! On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, I feel obliged to reiterate the debate I had here a few weeks ago when the National Assembly decided on a proposal for a candidate constitutional court. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not support the proposal to elect Mr Jožet Tratnik as a Constitutional Judge. It would be too much to point out once again that this decision is not primarily guided by any evidence of its professional competence. We are convinced, however, that the National Assembly will re-enter the premises too quickly and without a thorough consideration when the Constitutional Court will be determined for the next four years by the composition as it will be determined, and that a so-called mathematical political logic such as mag will be established. He recently wrote down the guilty party, and he suggested that we pull the emergency brake. Only Members and Members can draw it. If we pulled it, we'd make a wise move. The political and secular balance of the Constitutional Court is a category that has its own weight, a category that we should seriously think about. It is a matter of credibility of the Constitutional Court. This is a matter of confidence between citizens and citizens in the decisions of the Constitutional Court. These are not only the words of the Head of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group, but they are also the words of someone who was the full mandate of the Constitutional Judge who had this courage to publicly say that he belongs to the left-wing or left-wing political option, which is legitimate, but at the same time calls for the understanding of the National Assembly to find ways to balance the constitutional court as much as possible. With all due respect for the political definitions in this place, it is necessary to say that the left-wing option in the National Assembly for the next few years will strengthen the composition of the Constitutional Court, which in this regard will only be in proportion, as the mag would say. Guilt, eight protégés, eight to one. Is that blue? That's not good. We do not wish to offend anyone, at least Mr Tratnik, but we call on us to vote today, after careful consideration, in a way that we can once again have the opportunity to rule on the proposal of the President of the Republic for a Constitutional Judge. Of course, it's too late to ring the bell after the rush, but once again it's shown how illogical it is to have constitutional judges elected by the common majority. This is literally funny when we see that some other important functions in the country require a two-thirds majority. And also for some positions that are essentially less important than membership in the Constitutional Court. The delegation will therefore not support the proposal of the President of the Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We have heard the opinions of the parliamentary groups. I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. Mr Franz Kangler made a written statement to the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. I would also like to stress here that I will not support the proposal made by the President of the State, Mr Milan Kučan. At the same time, however, I would like to stress and point out once again, as I have pointed out at KVIAZ today, that I do not doubt the expertise of the gentleman who is today a candidate for a constitutional judge. Once again, I do not doubt his expertise, given that this gentleman is now the supreme judge. In recent years or in the last year, we have talked a lot about who and how constitutional judges should be elected. Undoubtedly, it is not just us or some of the political parties or representatives of the parliamentary groups that point to this. The former Constitutional Judge has also made this point and has also strongly criticised some of the political options or factors that have any impact in this political space on the election of constitutional judges. In Western democracy, wherever you meet with her, they are very well aware of what a constitutional court means and its role. There they are fully aware that the Constitutional Court is the institution that has the last word on very sensitive and pressing issues. This is the last door to the Constitution. Regardless of who is in power, in Western democracy, political options point to the fact that constitutional judges are elected to the Constitutional Court by having both support. The letter sent by the former Constitutional Judge shows that today, too, our largest parliamentary party has the greatest responsibility for the election of constitutional judges. Unfortunately, I have to stop and comment on three questions. Completely democratic, politically speaking, he has the most votes. It is likely that those who decide whether to listen to the former Constitutional Judge, some parliamentary groups, will listen to some legal experts who point out this. In view of what the former constitutional judge wrote down, I quote: "Now is the last moment to pull the emergency brake before the formation of our constitutional court is finally left to play." This is an evaluation by an ex-constitutional judge. Political interests, based on the principle of political prey, have been commented on by a former constitutional judge. The winner of the election for four years collects everything that is possible - is that wise? I don't think that's wise. If a person today mocks a former constitutional judge, he is likely to be ridiculed by the one who put this constitutional judge in that courtroom or former court and gave him full confidence and support. But this is a serious problem and a serious problem. Today I am getting the feeling that we are witnessing not only political centralisation, but also centralisation in the judicial branch and in this area. This, ladies and gentlemen, does not hold up any more political, moral, ethical tastes. A number of people in this room are personally and probably concerned about this. However, he should be most concerned about the President of the State; he should be most concerned, given the public debates, given the experts' warnings and the warnings of the former Constitutional Judge, whom he also proposed in that mandate. But we run into deaf ears. That this is a serious game of political interests according to principle, as I have stated, see the last paragraph: "Messengers, do not play with fire, today you will burn left with it to the right, tomorrow they will give you back soap for dear, and citizens and citizens will remain at the top of the rule of law." That's the truth. That's the truth. I think that it is up to us Members, whatever decision is taken today, that the greatest responsibility is to try to make this worse before the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia in this way. However, once again, I do not want to see that, in any way, the candidate is a victim. I will personally object to the appointment of a Mr as Constitutional Judge, not because of his professional references, I doubt that, once again, I stress, I have no doubt, and no one in our Group doubts this, given that the Lord is acting as supreme judge. However, for the reasons I have now stated, I have no choice but to listen to the call of citizens and some experts that my voice and decision will be as I have quoted now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u5	Thank you very much. For the debate, which is limited to five minutes, they applied in the following order: first Mr Janša, then Mr Bernik and Mr Partljič. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u6	Thank you for your word. In my opinion, something unusual is happening when deciding as a candidate for a constitutional judge. We had this item on the agenda of the Elections, Appointments and Administrative Affairs Commission half an hour ago, and it is now immediately at a meeting of the National Assembly, and there has been virtually no time in between for consultations in the parliamentary groups, nor for the clarification of some of the concerns that have arisen. In short, the timing, in my opinion, is not accidental, quite well studied, so that the whole thing goes through, whether or not there are any concerns. It is also unusual, because if we remember how the decision on the previous candidates, where it has been for quite some time, I think that a few weeks, from proposals to decisions, and in the meantime the withdrawal of the proposal for Mr Puharič, has occurred, of course, a person cannot escape the impression that someone had left a lot of time on purpose at that time for the concerns to be raised. Now, someone has reduced this time in which there could be some arguments against it to 15 minutes. And, of course, don't tell me it's an accident. Previously, my colleague from the government of the Slovenian People's Party talked about the expertise and the difference between whether someone is responsible for political beliefs and professions and whether this is divorcing. Of course, to some extent this can be separated, but when it comes to a constitutional judge, things need to be assessed in a complex way. This is not only about whether someone in his life has been so skilled that he has written six judgments and five bills, but it is about significantly more, it is also about some moral integrity of the person who will have to decide as the final instance of key matters in the country. Also, the reference that Mr Tratnik is already a supreme judge loses weight in the fact that Mr Tratnik as a Constitutional Judge has not been proposed by the Supreme Court or the Judicial Branch of Authority, proposed by the Executive Committee of the Notary Chamber and Mr Tratnik has never been a Notary. Everything that has to do with notarism, I think it is his contribution to the system regime of notarism in Slovenia, which has given notaries a very good position. Perhaps it is now a thank you for his contribution, not a recognition of his expertise. If this was a proposal from the Supreme Court, then things would be different, of course, they are not now. The delays that come to me personally with this candidacy are, in my opinion, more convincing and even stronger than the reservations against Mr Puharic, which was then withdrawn as a proposal. Mr Tratnik was in three very important prosecution positions at a time we called lead years, at a time when we had political processes in Slovenia, when people were convicted under Article 133 for hostile propaganda, and at a time when magazines and newspapers were seized. There is a thought that, now I do not have it on me, but I have information that there are quite a few of his signatures on the data that are controversial. From the point of view [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u7	Mr. Janša, just a moment. Dear colleagues and colleagues, the phones are ringing like that in this room today, I think the deal was clear. I'm asking you to turn them off, so we're distracting our colleagues from speaking. Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u8	Thank you. I'm asking for those half-minutes that my cell phones took.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u9	We've turned off the clock during this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u10	And no matter what these concerns I have just mentioned, the decision is not in itself a wise decision. Here I fully agree with the colleagues who spoke before me. It is not wise to insist on such unilateral concentration of a political option in the Constitutional Court. This turns out to be negative sooner or later. Every absolute power will sooner or later turn itself against itself to the detriment of the state. And even in this case, that's what's gonna happen. I therefore propose that we take some time to think about it and then make a wiser decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Mr. Bernick has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Candidate, colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have a somewhat complicated matter ahead of us again, and we have a difficult decision to make. However, in principle, I will say at the outset that our Group of Members will not vote for this candidate for a number of reasons. I understand that today the KVIAZ vote was 13 to 8. I don't know how much real deepening has been done on this KVIAZU in matters that are essential to the Constitutional Judge, but I'm not going to go into this. I would say that I would not personally support him because in 1977 he was a deputy public prosecutor, that was sometimes when there was a completely different legal and political philosophy. I don't think anyone who was a public prosecutor at the time could get away with it. I wonder what it can be like to change my mind in such a short time and to adopt a democratic view of the world as well as a legal theory and practice. I am personally against the fact that we do not have a definition of who this legal expert is today after all this time. If we look at all the appointments recently, we will see that mainly legal experts are law professors at the university or from time to time any judge, as in our case. I think that this interpretation is being used by Mr President of the State, and I have also mentioned to him that this is absolutely not the right criteria, because everywhere in the world and I myself have been a member of such an organisation, it is a legal profession, then a notary, some kind of feud that advocates in the first place its own interests. And that is especially true in notaries today. The fact that she appointed Mr Notary Chamber does not seem very advisable to me, although it is professionally sure, but there are some other interests in the back. In addition, as has already been said, we have the opportunity to vote for a constitutional judge with a simple majority. I find that absolutely unacceptable. That is why I would say that we must also start to do something on this basis, because the Constitutional Judge is the judge for all of us, and for that reason, I feel that the majority of people who are here in Parliament cannot be satisfied with what people expect. I would ask, or I think, that we Members, not just Kviaz in a quick session, should have the opportunity to ask the candidate at all times. It's not just professional education and practice, etc. the criteria that should be taken into account. It must also determine the criteria of a person, his view of things, the world, and everything around him. This is how we now receive in the constitutional court of men in the same uniform. Is that really what we want? I mean, even though former Constitutional Judge Krivic was talking about left or right, it doesn't matter, it doesn't matter what kind of person goes to this place and what we can expect from him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Partlič has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u14	First of all, I must admit, dear colleagues and colleagues, Madam President-in-Office, that I did not prepare for this point in particular, nor did I ask myself enough questions about the candidate's profile, for the first time. Secondly, after what I'm about to say that you can also somehow determine my intelligent quantum, I may not be able to understand any things either. I was going to vote in a way that was routinely in favour, as my client had decided. But after all I'm listening to, what I'm about to say is maybe more of a replica than not. Two things seem important to us, perhaps, to all of us who might be able to extricate them from the foregoing. The first is that it may be worth putting on the table the law on the Constitutional Court repeatedly on matters to be debated, as my forerunner has just said. If Comrade Janš had more, say, things in his hands and could show around the seizure of magazines and so on, he would be, for example, quite an important piece of information to me, to maybe change his mind. But the other arguments seem problematic to me if we win them. Let me first say as much as it makes sense here to resist, say, public letters and the views of the very respected Mr Matevž Krivica. Surely there is nothing wrong with him, even if he once appears to the right parties, once to the lions, once to us, once to our opponents, because he is obviously not interested in the customer, he is interested in the truth, and as he sees it, so he is with the one who has the truth. From this point of view, I think it's very fine. He worked very well with us when we opposed the referendum around the majority system. And now it's like he doesn't "feed" us, but that's what he says in his plus. But when we refer to him here and only when we have something that "feeds" I think in a way is much more problematic, even in such a discussion. Second. I agree with Mr. Bernick, it's hard to define left-right. As it is said, I did not care enough myself, I have no data that Mr Tratnik is politically left-handed. However, I know that we had a constitutional court in the past, where so-called right-wing men were called, I would not like to name them, but I was not disturbed when they were right. At the same time, these mandates are longer than our mandate, much longer, for two of our mandates, if I am not mistaken. Whether the Parliament will meet again and again, or whether it will debate what constitutional court we have, more left or more right, how it will be better for us or how it will not be right for us. Since I was in a dilemma, I'm with some constitutional judge I happen to know -- I know maybe two or three -- and I met him on the road and he asked me when we're going to deal with this. And he told me that the wish was probably to follow Krivič's public call, but that the option we're talking about might not have offered the best lawyers he has. However, Pirnat was mentioned, perhaps also Mr Arhar, who is a lawyer, or something like that. So I feel like some people have their own frame that they've ever promised to get him to a constitutional judge and now they're starting some kind of other discussion. If it is true that the President of the Republic had a professional criterion, not a left-wing or right-wing one, he seems right to have made the decision, as he has decided. But I don't mind that we may open this discussion at some point, especially if it is necessary. Now, if we have such a law, that's how we've done it so far, and in this case it's no different, given the number of votes and so on. Of course, I'll support the candidate myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Partljić's performance will be replicated by Mr Kangler, then by Mr Pukšić's debate. Here you go, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. Comrade Partich, you're right in your own way. If only the professional criteria were in force with the President of the State, Comrade Partljič, then the President of the State would not have called on the leaders of the parliamentary groups. It is said that in addition to the professional criterion, the President of the country also wants political criteria or political support. Then this option would not have been for the President of the State to call on himself to interview the leaders of the parliamentary groups. This means that the candidate must have political support in the National Assembly. And that's what we're talking about today. I personally and also some before me did not talk about the definition of the candidate as to the left or as to the right. But we talked about the credibility of the Constitutional Court, given that the Constitutional Court would have a much more credible content if this support of constitutional judges were from different political options.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u17	Mr. Kangler, just a moment. Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize. You do not really respect this agreement that has been concluded in Parliament today. Cell phones aren't supposed to be disturbed during the session. Please, let's stick to this. Thank you very much. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u18	Today we are talking, and the former Constitutional Judge is also talking about credibility, about the reputation of the Constitutional Court. Surely the Ombudsman, who needs a two-thirds majority to be elected, has considerable, broad support rather than to receive it by a simple majority. My personal desire and the desire of some who have to deal with these problems - especially experts, colleague Partljič - is that some candidates would receive broad political support. So one, so the other, so the third. And that's what we're talking about. That some countries, such as America, have a centuries-old tradition of democracy, colleague Anderlich, I certainly know what court they have there and which court is the one that lasts in America and also probably in France or elsewhere. I therefore stress once again that political support is also sought along with the professional criteria that candidates have. We are talking about this political support and we have spoken about it today, Comrade Partljič. The credibility of the Constitutional Court would be much greater if this support were broad to Constitutional Judges. But since colleague Anderlich is there laughing and commenting quietly with me, colleague Anderlich, believe me, I know exactly what kind of system they have in America, and I'm not that naive, if that's what you're thinking. And there's probably someone else in the dining room. But perhaps you are searching for your cause so that you can do your job again after our performances as you have always done.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Another line before the debate. Mr. Juban, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Franc, I don't know what you're trying to tell us, except that we all feel like we're back in the House of Bombs on Matevža Krivica. I know Mr Tratnik when he used to be Secretary of State, and I don't even know which Minister, and I didn't know or register to be somewhere, I don't know, centre or left. There were no arguments today either. I haven't seen him since then, not on the street, not even on coffee, never met him, just by chance near LDS. Maybe it's more of a focus somewhere. In the past, Matvež Krivic was sympathetic to me because of his warnings, some of his sovereignty within the constitutional court at the time, but those who today refer to the warnings of Matvež Krivica, from then on you did not respect his warnings when it came to congregations, to return the property of the church, etc. On many occasions, he also had separate opinions about individual projects that we have here politically taken and may have been contrary to a number of laws. Today his opinion here is alpha and omega, but we don't know exactly what's wrong with him again, but then we discussed for two hours, and we didn't say with one argument that something was wrong with him. Today I expected something to be said. Mr. Bernick may have made one point that he did not like it or that he was somewhere at the time. All right, all right, but then there's nothing concrete about it. Don't blame me for the Mariborians, maybe you wanted Franc to say that he's not from Maribor again. I'd be happy to be, really, honestly speaking. But it's not small [[...]] [[It's an ad from the hall.]] I think you'd agree that that would be wrong. [[...]] Next, I would like to hear actually something concrete, because now I will mention Mr Krivica again, I think he is already meeting himself in the middle. And those arguments aren't enough for me, that way. As my colleague Partljič said, we had a court that ruled on strange matters, even preventing a referendum on the return of church property, when we were all amazed. It's just that the story's gone. Now we have a candidate with whom everything is wrong, but we don't know what. I want to hear what's wrong. So far, I have decided to support him, so far you have not convinced me that he would not, because no argument stands as strongly as it would have been against it. There's no smoke in the Notary Chamber for me, there's a group of people who deal with law and probably deal with these kinds of people, with the expertise and that they have some weight, some opinion. That the President needs to consult, however, is a normal way for him to succeed here with the candidate. Unless we discredit him again without arguments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u21	Thank you. Two more replicas. First Mr. Sponik, then Mr. Kangler. Here you go, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u22	Thank you very much. I'd like to replicate my colleague Juban. I propose and expect this debate to be as respectful and reasoned as possible. I would also like to give a tone to such a debate in my replica. First of all, I remember - I will also be very direct - I remember Mr Tratnik as State Secretary, and for a few months he was also with Mr Marusic, a member of the Slovenian People's Party, and then replaced by Mr Bojan Šrot. A number of years ago, Mr Tratnik was Secretary of State to the LDS ministers, if I am not mistaken, and he was known as a very good operative; this is a well-known fact. Reference to Matevža Krivica - I would like to acknowledge the merit of Matevž Krivica in particular in that he pointed out the problem with a clear word as he knows it. And that's his credit. But as a Member, I have to be so sensitive that I follow what I think about some things either civil society or a professional association, and I listen to arguments. And you will have to admit, colleagues and colleagues, that Matevža Krivica's warning about, as it were, the visual and political balance of the Constitutional Court on the ground. He then merely challenged me to articulate this as a Member of Parliament in this place, but always with the President of the State. Today is the third time I have been speaking on this issue here, first with Dr. Ribičič, then with the lady who was elected the last time, and today in this case. So I am consistent, and I always raise this question. And there's one more thing. You're right, mag. Guilt also has views that I do not agree with, perhaps with regard to the Vatican Agreement, respect them and is a very good interlocutor on these issues and has opened up a subject of importance. In fact, in his views, which are of a substantive nature, he proved how an intellectual should work in the Slovenian space, and here I give him all recognition. But the political decision is only ours, only ours. The second topic is the subject of time and space. It's true what my friend Janš said. Today was only 15 minutes of time, I think it was 12:8 in the Kwiaz--or how much? - 13:8. Would it not be logical for us to have at least a day or two to discuss these issues in the parliamentary groups? Why is it such a terrible speed? But there's something I'd like to point out to my fellow Partich. We can't delay this thing now, let's say we'll do it in the coming years, including with regard to the Constitutional Court Act. Because the fact remains that next time we will elect constitutional judges only in 2007 and six at a time. Only after the 2004 elections will our colleagues and colleagues elect new constitutional judges before the end of the second term. So the question is here and now, not in five, six years. So today's the topic here that's up to date. Look, when you said there was no argument to pull the emergency brake. The argument is that, in the introduction, it is not the professional integrity of the candidate, but the fact that the decision of the National Assembly, if supported by the proposal of the President of the State, means that the National Assembly will cement the composition of the Constitutional Court for the next long period, just as it will. And with all due respect for political, visual and other definitions in this place, we are risking the price of a constitutional court being left-wingly absolute majority oriented in this respect. I respect this direction, which is legitimate, but the swing will swing too far to the left. And that's the problem. The topics previously opened, that Mr Tratnik was a public prosecutor in Kočev, then a deputy in Ljubljana, then a secretary of the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, and that the Secretary of State, that the previous Assembly appointed him, is not a key argument to me, which Janša spoke about, can also be. The size of the National Assembly could be shown here and I would say that this should not be a crucial argument to vote against it. I am against this argument as a key argument. However, it is a key argument for me to take seriously the view that the world-viewed and political balance of the National Assembly is a high value of the Constitutional Court. That is why these words are responsible here and have their weight, and I propose that today we try to find a way for the National Assembly to make such a decision so that it can once again decide on the proposal for a Constitutional Judge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Two more replicas. First Mr. Kangler, then Mr. Scholch. Mr. Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u24	I'll try to be as short as possible. I would like to replicate to my colleague Gez Juban in the part where he mentioned that I probably don't support him because this gentleman is not from Maribor. Mr Geza Juban, with all due respect to you, given your third term here, I did not want to discuss this on purpose today, if I am completely honest and honest. Although my personal opinion, colleague Geza Juban, is that we are also witnessing centralisation in the judiciary. To be brief, Comrade Geza Juban, of the 34 Supreme Judges, Maribor only prevails 2, Murska Sobota and not one. Of the 9 Constitutional Judges, the university city with the Faculty of Law can't outrun any of them. Of the 24 members in the judiciary, Celje has only 1 lady. I didn't mean to point that out. However, one could also be concerned in this area. Whether in your neighborhood people have the opportunity to reach the Supreme Court or the Council of Justice or even the Constitutional Judge. Just so you know, about the statistics, what the relationship is. However, I do not wish to politicise this at any given time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Skull, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u26	Thank you very much. In this replica, I will limit myself only to these questions, which were related to the timing, and I will then apply for a word later to deal with this thesis on how the credibility of the Constitutional Court is being established. There is some speculation here that everyone is in such a hurry to appoint a constitutional judge. Nevertheless, this process needs to be looked at in a longer time frame, and I can say that for that part of the process that runs through KVIAZ, everything that also happens with all the proposals that come to KVIAZ has happened. You practically get them to the parliamentary groups on the same day for information and at the first meeting in the decision. I can say this for all the things that are related to this time in which I work alone on this election and appointment committee. We have received a proposal from the President of the Republic following the reference of the KVIAZ meeting and have proposed an extension of the agenda. This has already been published in the newspapers, if I am not mistaken that Mr Tratnik will be the President's candidate, and before that, those representing the parliamentary groups can talk about this with an authorised proposer. That this is today at a meeting of the National Assembly is a decision, I suppose, by the College of the President of the National Assembly. I found out about her myself yesterday when she was talking about what and when she was going to be at the meeting today. At the same time, a meeting of the KVIAZ had already been convened. That's how I don't see any secret conspiracy in this. This procedure would not have been the case if I had announced the previous proposal of the President of the Republic. However, the previous proposal by the President of the Republic to remind you has not been announced because, formally speaking, the candidate, Mr Puharič, withdrew himself. There has been no more weekly or monthly delay within the procedures of the National Assembly, but there has been a postponement of the decision at the KVIAZ meeting, if I am not mistaken, at the proposal of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats for a week, within the same meeting of the National Assembly. That is why I believe that the way of work we have in this committee is still in place when we consider all the qualified proposals that the majority is willing to discuss and decide immediately that this is good, not bad. It would be bad if it depended on the arbitral will of someone, when they'd throw something and when they wouldn't. This is also how we classify all the proposals of the parliamentary groups when they satisfy their partial interests, regardless of whether or not the material comes in the same morning and can be decided on. Other matters which are also related to the secret timing are Mr Podobnik's concern that this will be cemented for 9 years. I don't think it's possible to avoid that. The next National Assembly, or this one, will not be able to decide on new proposals for constitutional judges unless it happens that someone will terminate their term of office or resign. This has already happened in the past. However, I think it is impossible to expect that the President of the Republic does not propose a candidate, which was already an idea. From this point of view, this argument that if we postpone today that another national assembly can then decide, it cannot stand. Appointment will be the same. [[...]] [[End warning sign]] with this amount of time. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u27	Thank you very much. And now for the debate. Mr. Pukshish, please. Then Mr. Potts.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My concerns about Mr. Tratnik are of a substantive nature. Mr Tratnik served as State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice from 1993 to 1997. He was Secretary of State at the time of the adoption of privatisation legislation and judicial reform. What's up with the backlog and the court issue? We're all familiar with it. Clearly, as Secretary of State, as an expert in this field, these legislation has not been sufficiently prepared or well. The greatest concern regarding the expertise of Mr Tratnik certainly stems from the amendment of the Criminal Code Act, the Criminal Procedure Act 1994. Remember that this legislation has changed by reducing the limitation of time limits on economic crime from 10 to 6 years. Remember, at that time, there were the biggest anomalies in transition and in ownership. It was also the amendment of these two laws that led to the fact that the judgment already handed down in March against Mr Aljančič and Kodr, as it were in January 1995, was outdated as a result of the amendment of these two laws. These are serious substantive concerns. Those who wondered what was wrong, I hope that the mention of these substantive concerns is clear enough to make clear what was actually wrong. To say that this is the best option, by legal, professional basis, of course these facts reject it. This means that the election of the President was not according to the best professional criteria, but rather political, as was the political one for the former fellow Member of the previous term. The fact that the Notary Chamber gave such a positive opinion is to be expected because, at the time of the request, the Chamber of Lawyers, which ruled in Kranj concerning Elan, is also the best positive opinion, although, of course, everyone in Slovenia, at least all legal professions and citizens, knew that irregularities had taken place here, since it is clear that in the 15 days since the judgment was delivered, the judgment must also be written. This judgment was not written for more than eight months. The basis for this to become irrelevant in January was the amendment of these two laws, for which Mr Tratnik has drawn up professionally as Secretary of State and is, of course, fully responsible here. There is no possibility, no moral basis to elect him as a Constitutional Judge. Last but not least, it is because of over 100,000 unemployed people, who, because of such poor privatisation legislation and so much property corruption, have been caused by such legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Lavrinc, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u30	Thank you very much for your word. I understand more of my colleague Pukšič, if I had such experience with "too long a language", I would probably be in a similar mood. I thank him for his explanations because many of them were completely new to me. Until now, I did not know that Mr Tratnik was responsible for all the anomalies of privatisation. First time I get a chance, I'm gonna ask him about it. I would say something, however, that Members would be expected to know the procedure for the adoption of laws. However, I do not forgive this fellow Puksic, i.e. we adopt laws here, especially when it comes to very professional laws, such as those mentioned here, they are always prepared by groups of experts, both from law schools and courts, etc. The role of the Secretary of State shall in particular be to coordinate such work. Something small in a good direction or in a bad way, of course, we also add Members, first at the board meeting and then here. I attach to Mr Pukščica's opinion only in that part that, unfortunately, and almost everywhere, this is not just about lawyers, it is true that "the crow crow's eyes do not rule out." We've tried a lot of things here, and unfortunately we didn't get away with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u31	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksic's replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u32	I didn't hear everything that Mr Lavrinc said, but nothing about it. Who's to blame, who's to blame, and who's to blame? This means, according to the best professional criteria, he deserves the most, and he also earned, on a professional basis, the appointment of the President of the State. So if someone deserves the most for something, then of course there's someone who's responsible for the most. As Secretary of State, he is responsible for the fact that legislation has come so badly that such corrupt legislation has come before the MPs of the National Assembly. That such legislation was adopted in the National Assembly meant ownership, that is, at the time of privatisation, the greatest possible damage that they felt and, of course, we will feel for decades. Of course, this cannot be fixed from today to tomorrow. To draw up such legislation by the Government, it is clear and therefore, as Secretary of State, it has been vigilant and coordinated and, of course, also probably coordinated by various experts, etc. As an expert in this area, of course, he had to know and knew, and it was presented that he knew and, of course, the government had deliberately come with such legislation that certain matters had become obsolete when it was, in effect, the middle or in the position of ownership, when in fact the judicial branch should play the most important role and is not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Three replicas in the following order, first Mr Lavrinc, then Mr Kangler and Mr Kebrič, as third. Mr. Lavrinz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u34	Mine will not be a replica, but a kind request from my colleague Puksic, I have not yet heard the expression of corrupt legislation. So I'd be very grateful if you could explain it to me. What kind of corrupt legislation is this?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u35	Thank you very much, Mr. Kangler.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u36	I would just like to remind my colleague Pukšič that one State Secretary was unable to adopt such legislation, but it was the Members who or were the ones who adopted the legislation, and it was mainly political decisions as the legislation was adopted at the time, or how much professional pay was taken into account. It would also be good to be aware of this and it would be really wrong if one secretary of state could have so much influence that he could convince the majority of the Assembly and be the legislation, at the will of one State Secretary, not at the will of the political power of the national assembly or Members. It is therefore wiser to talk about the policy or political will that it has adopted if it has doubts about this legislation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, dear colleagues, colleagues. I can't go over the words of my colleague Puksic that the legislation is corrupt. I think we need to teach him if he does not know that the legislation is adopted by this national assembly. And if you don't excuse me for being corrupt when I voted for any legislation, for individual laws, forgive me, you're not worthy to be here if you speak like that and you don't know our rules of procedure and constitution so well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u40	Of course, corrupt legislation. The fact is that the Secretary of State was the one who coordinated the work to prepare a legislative amendment. The fact is that the policy knew; the fact is that the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia knew that the judgment had been delivered, and the fact is that the judgment had not been delivered, and the fact is that legislation had changed in that year. The laws are indeed accepted by the MPs of the National Assembly, Mr Kebrich, and we could both know that by now. But the fact is that some laws are passed by a coalition with the engine of its majority, even though it is contrary to the will of citizens and citizens. This fact has also been demonstrated in the referendum; unfortunately, this has not been carried out at the time. And the fact is that Mr Tratnik took care of this coordination at the time. And the fact is that today we have the situation as we have - that we do not have a legal state, that we do not have a social state, that many things are very wrong and that citizens and citizens are talking about such corrupt legislation, so on account of this corrupt legislation, they are basically out of jobs, without jobs, without opportunities for a decent life.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr Pukšič, I think that in your implementation you really exceed the limits in which a Member can make an assessment. The words for the replicas are in the following order: Mr. Jelinčič, Mr. Sok - Mr. Lavrinc, have you also responded to the replica? - and Mr. Lavrinz. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'd like to say something. Corrupt legislation is by definition impossible. It can be a corrupt legislative body and perhaps one of the members of the legislative body is said to be this Parliament - it is also corrupt, but I will not talk about it. But I agree, or I'm sure it's a corrupt judiciary. And that's corrupt, that's just another story. And because of the corrupt judiciary, the Slovenian National Party tried to achieve a constitutional change when we tabled a proposal to deprive the judges of a permanent mandate. Here again we return to a corrupt legislative body, as none of our other Members, members of the legislative body, wanted to support it, but again it may indicate that any of them are corrupt in the legislative body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to return to the hearing of the President of the Republic's proposal to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court. More replicas, Mr. Sok, then Mr. Lavrinz. Here you go, Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u44	Thank you for your word. I would like to draw this national assembly's attention to one situation that I have experienced myself, Mr Kebrič, here in this House - although I am not ready to tell you the exact date now, but I can also send you a magnetogram later. Here was the European Union's Commission on Local Self-Government and Regionalism, and then they asked us a question when we asked them some questions and said this: we are not saying that there is corruption in your country, but that you have legislation that makes it possible. Since this is recorded in the magnetogram and if you want Mr Kebrič, of course, I will deliver this magnetogram to you so that you can see what some of the European Union think about our legislation. It is said that legislation is one that makes it possible, enables corruption, and also Dr Andrej Bajuk keeps reminding about the legislation on financial control, and nothing happens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u45	Thank you very much. I very much ask that you also respect my warning that we do not go into a field in our debates that has absolutely nothing to do with the point that we now have on the agenda. Mr. Lavrinz, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u46	Now it's a replica. First of all, I will let my lawyers know if it is possible to sue Mr Pukšič for accusing me - and my colleagues - of corruption and to make him pay again, of course, if he does not refer to parliamentary immunity, as he tried every time he beats him. That's the first one. Secondly, it is not yet possible to ensure that one - any - country is without corruption. And I'm going to say, they've been developing their own legal order a lot longer than we've been developing. That's the first one. The second thing I would like to say is, ask my friends among colleagues, Members, my friends, when I was running for president of the Internal Policy Committee, one of the first objectives was to correct procedural and substantive criminal legislation in order to step behind the white collars in order to say so. Even today, because a lot of us are being persecuted, with other things it is impossible to claim or the opposite; I can argue that the prosecution is not capable of matching such and different colors, political ones hiding here once, once and for all, into an unfair account. It's not possible because they don't have a profession.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u47	Mr. Lavrinc, I must apologize and warn you, please don't develop the problem of corruption in our country. [[...]] [[Intermediate speaking, Mr. Lavrintz.]] at this point, which we have on our agenda. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u48	Yeah, well, that's what they always do, because they started yesterday. Then they're referring to us. I'm sorry I went past the rules of procedure, and I'm gonna calm down and go out and smoke one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u49	Thank you very much. And now there is a debate, Mr Potch. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u50	Thank you very much. With many brilliant assessments of the legal system, of history, of the situation and so on, my debate would be totally inappropriate, so I am giving it up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr Pukšič, please, but please limit yourself to the point we have before us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u52	Mr. Lavrinc, I am, and I will always say what is true and what is fair. I am, and I will always point to those who are the scoundrels, even if I'm ever convicted of it again. Unfortunately, that's what happens in a country like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr. Janša, a replica or a debate?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u54	No, a replica of several debaters, especially those who asked about specific objections, if they weren't there. Some Members, including from the types of parties supporting Mr Tratnik, know that the President of the State has also obtained concrete evidence of the argument, which reads: "I tell you that Jože Tratnik participated in a procedure in which human rights were violated and therefore a suitable candidate for a constitutional judge. The written documentation of Jožet Tratnik's participation in the procedure in which human rights were violated, I am prepared to hand over to you personally and in the presence of Jožet Tratnik." The President of the country was obviously not interested in this confrontation and this did not happen. However, there is a Supreme Court judgment of 17.3.1995, where the Supreme Court decided that Mr Malhen, which makes this clear to Mr Tratnik, is right. In this judgment, the appeal was made by Mr Malin because his proposal was withdrawn from the appointment procedure for notary. The proposal was withdrawn on the basis of statements made by Mr Tratnik at the closed session of Kviaz [[Magnetogram is attached and is also in the National Assembly]] on how Mr Smallen was to be convicted of certain crimes and so on, which did not correspond to the fact. And the court found in this judgment that the proceedings were illegal, in particular, I quote the judgment: "The reason why the Minister withdrew the applicant's candidature does not have a legal basis. Consequently, this means that this investor has been prevented from running under the same conditions for the place of notary, which constitutes a violation of constitutional rights..." and so on. It follows from the minutes of the hearings, where Mr Tratnik was also heard, that Mr Tratnik had no reasonable reason to give false information at the meeting of Kviaz, and on this basis this application was also withdrawn. So if you want proof, if you want a verdict, this is the Supreme Court's judgment, which is now a member of Mr. Tratnik. That's very interesting. And it is found here that he was involved in a procedure in which constitutional rights were violated.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u56	I've said before that I'm going to talk about how the credibility of the Constitutional Court is being established, and whoever you want to remember, you're going to remember that I've been talking about this since the first time this happened. In my opinion, the credibility of the Constitutional Court cannot be established in a way that takes into account the criteria that are not enshrined in the law or that the National Assembly somehow compels it to become the dominant criterion of something that is not provided for by law. From this point of view, this type of blackmail means, above all, that the credibility of the National Assembly can be questioned if it refuses to comply with the rules that it has adopted in this matter, I think, for the most part. I am speaking specifically about the fact that it is impossible to ask the applicant to provide information on the political orientation of individual candidates or judges. This is the intention, or in the final sequence, to carry out what colleagues from the SLS Group propose. This is a very dangerous precedent. No one is obliged to make a statement about his political position, not to speak of religious, sexual and other orientations. This is where we ask for it. The second is if someone thinks someone's close to someone or not and it's a matter of decency. But to introduce such criteria, otherwise of course it is not possible, is a very dangerous thing, but it is certainly possible, as my neighbour, colleague Bernik, also speaks, to discuss the law in its various segments. In short, the rules in force, in my opinion, prevent the requirement for political identification of candidates. But I am not ready for us, say, Mr Kangler or anyone to say: this is a socialdemocrat, this is, this is, that is, if the one who is a constitutional judge is not ready to say it for himself. This is very dangerous, what we do or try to do. The second point is that the Constitutional Court must also reflect to some extent the political division of the Slovenians or the Parliament. This matter is, I will say, in total contravention of the idea of a constitutional court - I myself participated in the adoption of both the constitution and the law governing it - and that is why the judges are nine years old, that they are not subject to this time-to-day mandate, that they are in some way independent of these perceptions, that they can decide, without further delay, professionally and in accordance with the oath they must give here, on the matters they must decide. And last but not least, around these majorities, which are now becoming so controversial. This majority was proposed in the law by the Demos Coalition. We probably supported it at the time, but we were inclined to seek a greater consensus. But she probably suggested it because it was easier to choose, and I'm going to say in my notes, "my" judges, and I know that with that, let's say, at least five, I'm doing six wrongs, because then they were doing business for everyone. Three of them became politicians later. Is that what we want from the Constitutional Court? I do not want this, so I say - and thus I will end the sentence in one breath - that the credibility of the Constitutional Court can only be ensured in such a way as to comply with those rules in the elections that are currently enshrined in the law. However, if we want to change this, we need to first amend the law, where we can discuss both mandates and additional criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Two replicas, first Mr. Sponik, then Mr. Kangler. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to make a procedural proposal. First, I would ask Dr. Ribarič, representative of the President of the Republic, whether the President of the Republic was familiar with the Charter referred to by fellow Member Janez Janša. In the parliamentary group, we are not familiar with this document, no member of the parliamentary group, and we would ask the National Assembly if, before the discussion is concluded, we would have been able to get to know the contents of this document for perhaps 30 minutes. The vice president wouldn't listen to me. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u59	I apologize for being distracted by my cell phone, and I would like to remind again the gentleman who has for the third time disturbed the implementation of the speaker. Mr. Squirrel, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u60	Do you want me to say it again?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u61	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u62	Okay, well, I'll try to say it better now than the first time. First of all, I would like to ask the representative of the President of the Republic, Dr. Ribarič, whether the President of the Republic was aware of the contents of the Charter [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u63	I'm asking for peace in the hall. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall. Speakers in such situations cannot carry out or hear their thoughts, let alone convey them to us in the form they imagine. Therefore, I ask you very much to turn off our phones, and yet we will ensure that the speakers are able to make their speech in peace. Mr. Squirrel, please. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u64	It's only said three times in the mill, not in Parliament. I have asked the representative of the President of the Republic a question and I think we have all heard it. However, we would like to come across an understanding of our fellow Members that, before the conclusion of the debate, perhaps in 30 minutes or even in 20 minutes, we would have the opportunity to familiarise ourselves with the content of the Charter referred to by our colleague Janš. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u65	Thank you very much. Mr. Fisherman, I'd like to, please, have a word with you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u66	Madam President, Members and Members of Parliament. Now's the only time we have a chance to talk about this. Because, of course, if I have a word, I would like to talk about other aspects. Probably after the end of the debate. So with regard to this question, which Member Podobnik has now asked and what Member Janša read earlier, I must say the following. At the Kviaz meeting today, I asked Janša whether it had been verified since the time of the prosecution's action, I said that the President of the Republic and his office outside the facts mentioned in the documentation sent to the National Assembly had not verified this action during the prosecution's time. In particular, I also said that we had received a letter from one of the proposed candidates at the office of the President of the Republic, which challenged the suitability of the Constitutional Judge, Jožet Tratnik. In the procedure for appointment as notary. I also said that since this letter was sent to the President of the Republic and was not made available to the public, nor to the National Assembly, and because the President of the Republic saw nothing relevant, which would raise questions about the suitability of the proposed candidate, he did not consider it necessary for the President of the Republic to take note of this in his proposal to be a national assembly. Now it's even more concrete. But now that the specific question has been already, with regard to this letter, I will say the following. On 15 May, the Office of the President of the Republic received a letter from lawyer Mahn, who received a letter on 16 May and received a further letter on 20 May. The first and second letters and the last letters were also delivered to the proposed candidate, Jožet Tratnik. He replied to the first and second letters with very specific arguments, which suggest that the statements of lawyer Majn, the proposed candidate by certain groups, are completely without any basis. In the first letter, as Member Janša reads, counsel Malhen states that there is documentation here to prove the inappropriateness of the proposed candidate. On the same day he was invited in writing, Counselor Malhen, by the Office to submit this documentation to the President of the Republic. The next day, as I said on May 16, he sent a new letter saying that he had already sent something. "Something of this" is very specific - a judgment is supposed to be quoted and two articles are quoted, one in Youth, one in Del, and two other judgments. Mr Tratnik replied that in that judgment, quoted above, the Supreme Court had nothing to say about his participation in the proceedings where the Minister had decided and where he had, as he claims, a different opinion. In short, neither in that judgment of the Supreme Court nor in any other act is there anything decided on the conduct of the candidate Tratnik. There are two other judgments cited in one of these letters that have nothing to do with candidate Tratnik. The President of the Republic does not consider it appropriate, until now, that the indication of one proposed candidate on the inadequacy of another candidate be made available to the public or to the national assembly. Of course, if once a matter comes to the public or if the National Assembly is aware of it, as the Member of Parliament is obviously aware, and if the National Assembly wishes to have all of this, of course, it is not the least obstacle that a State authority such as the President of the Republic would have made all of this available. And, of course, it should then be possible for the proposed candidate, Jože Tratnik, to respond again and present his position. In short, if I take the matter up on the basis of the writing of one proposed candidate as it is and as we can read it, the President of the Republic did not have the slightest basis to question the appropriateness of that candidate's salary. And last but not least, since I said it on Quiaz this morning, this whole thing was supposed to be notary in 1995. Jože Tratnik was elected to the 1998 National Assembly. And if he were to violate human rights, then we have a provision in the law on judicial service that would prevent him from being elected. If this were to be determined later, the provisions in the law are again, where it is possible to carry out the appropriate procedure, with participation, of course, of the Council of Justice - and then the National Assembly forwards. In short, it is not possible to agree to the practice that at a certain point in time when someone can run, just before the workers, without having previously used all the relevant procedures - or otherwise, certain procedures have been used, but failed, as can be seen from all of this - so that they can then question the credibility of this candidate. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u67	Thank you very much. Procedural proposal, Mr. Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I have a procedural proposal. Thank you for your answer, Dr. Fisherman. When our representative of the parliamentary group, colleague Brenčič, was not familiar with these letters to the President of the Republic, I understand why he was not. But now we understand Dr. Fisherman's performance that, if I understand correctly, there are no obstacles to getting acquainted with this documentation. I'd like to ask if it's possible to stop the point for at least so long that we can get acquainted with these documents you've been talking about. However, if most would object, then at least we would ask for 30 minutes to at least get the document referred to earlier by colleague Janš. We do not want to delay; I think we can get all this documentation in an hour, look at it, and then continue the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr. Fisherman, just a moment. I would like to repeat the procedural proposal, Mr Podobnik, because I had the feeling that it was two, with different content. The first procedural proposal is whether Members and Members of the National Assembly wish to obtain the material referred to by Mr Janša. That's what we'd decide first. The second procedural proposal, if I understand correctly, would however like the SLS Group itself to take half an hour off in order to get to know this material for itself. It's a different kind of vision here. Do Members and Members want to be familiar with this material, according to the response given by Dr. Fishery, that the Office of the President of the State has assessed this material and decided as it is? Mr. Squirrel, did I not understand correctly? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u70	The procedural proposal would read: the National Assembly interrupts this item of the agenda, for example, for an hour, and at that time, it will receive all correspondence on the subject referred to by Dr. Ribarič. That's my first procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u71	Thank you very much, I will not take it in the form presented by Mr Podobnik, and I am giving it to Members and Members to decide. We are deciding on a procedural proposal to suspend the session for one hour. We're voting. There are 48 of us present, in favour of 21 votes against 24. [[It's the 21st vote.]] [[Against 24.]] I note that Mr Podobnik's procedural proposal has not been adopted. Second procedural proposal, Mr. Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u72	Colleagues and colleagues, I think I am doing the right thing, but I would like to ask you to understand that in at least 20 minutes, at least the parliamentary group could get acquainted with the charter that Janša spoke about, because it is clearly the only charter we have in the National Assembly. Vice-President, you have the opportunity to order such an interruption without a vote, but if you do not want to, I ask the majority to support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u73	Thank you very much. This was a partial proposal from your procedural proposal at the outset. I think Members and Members will certainly follow your wishes. Given that you want us to stop during the general discussion, as previously mentioned and therefore not completed, I will give him this procedural proposal for a semi-continuation so that the Group of Members - twenty minutes, Mr Podobnik, twenty minutes to get to know the materials, give it to Members and Members to decide. Twenty minutes at the request of the SLS Group of Members. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 51 votes against three. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the SLS Group was pleased. I'm breaking this point in 20 minutes. We continue the general debate at 12 p.m. at this point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u74	Please join us, because we will determine the presence. Before continuing the general discussion, we will be able to identify the presence due to the interruption. We're detecting a presence. There are 46 of us present, the National Assembly is adjourned and may decide. We continue with the general debate. Anybody want a word? Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u75	Thank you for your words, Madam Vice-President, thank you to my colleagues and colleagues for allowing us to become acquainted with this document. We took a quick look at it and came to the next conclusion. We regret that we do not have the opportunity to look into the entire documentation or correspondence between the persons who were previously discussed in Dr. Ribarič's performance. At the same time, we are aware that this is a sensitive situation where one candidate for a constitutional judge is looking for arguments. The situation here is no doubt particularly sensitive. From the material we have received, we find that it is not complete, for the judgment on behalf of the people is only two pages, and then we have nothing else. We note the following: the Supreme Court, in which the Senate was then also represented by the current Constitutional Judge Milojka Modrijan, found that in the withdrawal of the candidate for notarskiest in Maribor, Mr Tratnik also participated in this withdrawal, as the Supreme Court says: the reason why the Minister withdrew the applicant's candidacy is not legal and then, unfortunately, it is only written that it was a violation of constitutional rights and then the text is interrupted. So we were just familiar with this material. It would also be good for the credibility of the decision taken by the National Assembly to receive all correspondence between Mr Majn and Mr President of the State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u77	Thank you very much. Allow me a few sentences. Dear Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Yesterday we started two points and we didn't finish any. Today we are talking about these points or the third, which I doubt we will end again. Is it true that no one among us has any confidence in the institution of the President of the Republic of Slovenia? I understand that you have counter-arguments, and I understand the background of these arguments. Can we, colleagues and colleagues, meet at the meetings of the National Assembly on the eve of points and on the eve of meetings, which are still waiting for us, but for once we decide. Let us trust the Institute of the President of the country, but it is decided on the basis of discussions with the leaders of the groups of Members. At least I mean it, and I believe it. Let us decide and continue our work for the 31 points that await us. I don't know, talking about some arguments for and against, without having them in our hands, seems completely pointless to me. Forgive me, however, it seems to me that this institute, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, we are all working together from morning to evening, trying to do the best, but let us once agree whether they have confidence in this institution or not. Let's give our arguments in a conversation with the President of the Republic, the country. And if he creates such a proposal, let's make a decision once, but if we have arguments, let's show them, and based on the arguments that speak for or against, let's break the point, or let's move on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u78	Thank you very much. Mr Drobnič also addressed the replica, and before that, before the interruption, he wanted to replicate Mr Školč, Mr Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u79	Thank you for your word. I'd like to replicate to my colleague, and in some ways I'd say that his replica is acceptable. In part, your replica should be directed to the President of the country, but I do not agree with you in part. You mentioned my name. You mentioned three former constitutional judges. And I'm asking you, colleague of the school, I'm asking you myself. What is more questionable to you is whether the three constitutional judges go to politics after a term of office or an active member of Parliament is going to politics - I think a colleague of Ribič, who was a member of a party that was a member of a party or an official in the former system, went as a politician to a constitutional court. What's more controversial for you? That three formers go to politics after their term of office or that an active policy goes to the Constitutional Court? Because you challenged me with this when you replicated me in some way that the former three constitutional judges were politicians, you mean those three constitutional judges in the Bajuk government. My personal assessment could be slightly different from yours: whether the three former Constitutional Judges were in government politicians or experts. Yet, it is the judgment of any individual who creates his own like. However, colleague Školč, I must point out that the President of the country has double criteria. When it came to Mr Ribič, with all due respect for him, it was no problem that he was a member of this Parliament, that he was a member of a party, "never mind" which, that he was an active politician in the party's organs and could still list. However, when our representative of the parliamentary group mentions in the past the name of the former Member who is currently working in the Constitutional Court, the problem is that he is not, by those criteria, at least a member of the Supreme Court or a judge in the Supreme Court or something like that. Then one thinks and really wonders whether the President of the country has double criteria or double criteria. And I would very much ask you to answer that first fundamental question of what is more controversial for you: that an active policy goes to a constitutional court or former constitutional judges for politicians.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u80	Thank you very much. A few more replicas, in the following order: first Mr Drobnič, then Mr Auschwitz, Mr Potrč and Mr Školč. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u81	Thank you so much for saying that. So, before a decision is made, it certainly takes a decent judgement, because we are not hiring any, I don't know, administrator, but a constitutional judge. Before this meeting of the National Assembly, we had a brief discussion at Kwiaz, where the representative of the President of the State is, I don't know how to tell him whether his Member or not, said that the proposal was made for Mr Tratnik in the context of the facts that are known. I now wonder if these are new facts that have not yet been known to the proposer and need to be examined. If these are new facts, they certainly require the applicant to explain this so that we do not get Members in the fog. That is why I believe that these new facts which have come on the day, which are not of any kind, should be very important when deciding for a constitutional judge to explain and respond. And in view of some of the other facts that have been mentioned, I very much miss the candidate to present myself here and to ask him a question, particularly because of these facts and those circumstances that have obviously taken place on a day-to-day basis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Mr. Azhish, a replica, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Otherwise, I am replicating my colleague Kangler, but not in the sense that he would not agree with either of his opinions, but in that he was discussing people who are not the subject of today's debate and subject matter, or the proposal for today's appointment of a constitutional judge. While there is no doubt that we can have different opinions on the proposals, I still have a problem with the arguments about the proposed candidate, which I do not think are credible, that we want to put the candidate in some kind of political space in Slovenia, which I do not know about and ensure that it does not belong to him. So are we trying to find a candidate who should necessarily fall into a political or ideological option? I don't think so. And the second point that I have and generally refers to the appointment of constitutional judges is that we will probably not be able to get candidates for constitutional judges who, under all the criteria that we are talking about today, will be able to meet. I don't know a judge who didn't judge and who wouldn't have been dismissed in a higher court. It's happening. Therefore, we also have a judicial system with multiple stages of decision-making to take into account and re-check possible errors or to take too little account of the facts. I also do not know any minister who would issue a decision and who would never have been dismissed in a court of law. If we continue to do so, of course, the President will have to propose to future judicial trainees or graduates of the Faculty of Law, for which it will be very difficult to find any reason for them to have made a wrong decision or to have failed to deal with a particular case; it may also be obvious that they had a problem in college as a student or in primary school and so on. In short, I think that the qualifications that some of you have given, including those that oppose the proposal that you do not expertly oppose this proposal, are valid enough to reconsider and finally decide on this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Mr. Run, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Let me first repeat the statement made by the Members of the United Nations to the President of the country. At the consultations, we said that we were ready to support three candidates among the five candidates registered. Among them is Mr Mozetič, also the proposed Tratnik and also Mr Mitjo Žagar. We were serious about this, and in the case of Mr Mag's candidacy. The Mozetika voted that way. Our reason has been clarified and we have said that Mr Krivica's letter is among the reasons. Among the reasons, even the letter. But at the same time, Mr Kangler, let me tell you the following in some way as an explanation. If, in my understanding, the Slovenian People's Party and you, in fact, respected the need for a supervisory structure or a balanced supervisory body of the Constitutional Court, then questions of the election of Dr Cyril Ribičič, would not be raised. They wouldn't set it up. Because this would be the case where it was clear that a member of the party, a Member, was also clear that a professor and qualified in any case, and then by this logic would be decided in other cases. That is why I think this case is also inappropriate in relation to Mr Mozetič and others, at least a higher-á-vis Ribičič, a doctor, and I would ask that we do not renew it in this regard. The questions that we have started here are many, many of them are related to possible changes to the law. We have to anticipate "hearing" to appoint a constitutional judge if we decide to question him, otherwise that's not what this is. We, Comrade Podobnik, must foresee a different procedure for proposing candidates if we are to ensure a balanced and similar thing, so that I fear we are now ahead of a concrete decision; everything cannot be resolved in return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u87	Well, that word was actually asked by Mr Kangler, or I do not think it makes sense to discuss these things separately, but my discussion was linked to his and his colleagues' thesis that the credibility of the Constitutional Court is based on political and visual diversity or in the balance of the Constitutional Court. I'm the one who's been dealing with it, and then I'm talking about some other stuff. And also in this respect, of course, I will answer the question raised. I did not object either to the electives of the three constitutional judges who later became ministers, nor to our former colleague, Mr Ribičič, but it was clear to at least three of them that they were political activists. And that one, I'm going to say, is a very passionate species. Mr Jerovsekje was a political activist, he was on the Socialists' list for the national elections, and, as my colleague Drobnič put it, he got away from the Continuity in time and then was burning elsewhere. But Mr Jambrek was a politically motivated man and in many things we also participated in the early 1990s, and he was among those people who, I will say, had a marked impact on the political decisions of Demos before he became a Constitutional Judge; and here begins what is controversial, probably even when he was already a Constitutional Judge. He said, of course, that as a constitutional judge - by the way, I can tell these anecdotes - joke and go to political rallies. But we're talking about when someone was proposed and whether someone was opposed. I have always done the same thing: I have treated them as people whom I have anticipated will not be politically motivated later on in decisions. That's what this is about. And from this point of view, it seems inappropriate for me to insist on, say, Mr Tratnik or the last time we have elected a judge to reveal to the Senate in this dimension whether he has any political motives or not. And from my point of view, which, of course, is not the criteria, it is particularly important that these have a distance to current policy, not that we feel that someone is close to us, but that they have a distance to current policy, or that they also have a past policy that has led to certain decisions that are then decided in the Constitutional Court. Therefore, it seems to me a completely flawed thesis that, with this political balance, part of this discussion should also be transferred to the Constitutional Court. And from this point of view, my point of view was, if you want these three people back, I'll say, as it was in the newspapers that you like to refer to, or as Krivic himself marked in individual judgments, they dropped the mask and showed that they were - quote, "alternatively motivated in individual decisions" connected, say, with the electoral system and so on. But the discussion of all of this is completely irrelevant. In these cases, it also appears on these cases, and if it appears to Judge Ribičič or to anyone else that there is a strong political motive, then it will be very embarrassing, first for the proposer and then also for us who believed the proposer and confirmed it. I certainly - I do not understand - that those people who have proved themselves in the public administration or, say, in the university or in other branches of government as relatively impartial experts, that we are stigmatising them now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u88	Thank you very much. Three more replicas, Mr. Kangler first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u89	I'm giving up the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Mr. Squirrel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Constitutional judges are also political beings, and they're right to be. At this point, it must be said that constitutional judges can also be mistaken. At the same time, it must be said that some of the names spoken of by respected colleague Školč; their intellectual knowledge and courage; their work is also incorporated into the independent Slovenian state - 1988, 1989, 1990. And if the names were already mentioned, I would mention another name: Franc Testen - he has no doctorate, but he has proved how a man with extraordinary professional and human integrity can give tone to the constitutional court. Where it is defined in value, we find out, but this definition of it has been enriched by the Constitutional Court, it has enriched it; as many such constitutional judges as possible. Why do people like that stop applying for these places? That's the question. I need to explain to my colleague Potræ, who is being corrected, he came to me and I gave him this material, which is incomplete, which we read earlier, about Dr. Rybičič. I opened this question with all the sensitivity I needed a year and a half ago because they were mag candidates back then. Mozetič and Dr. Fisherman. And that's when I opened this question about this balance, and then I re-emphasized that he was an expert in constitutional law, one of the few in Slovenia. And now this part is over. Now, allow me, on my part, to be a little persistent. I must ask a question to the esteemed Dr. Fisherman. On the basis of this documentation, which I have before me, it is clear that Jože Tratnik participated in the withdrawal of Mr Mahn's application for notary. And that the Supreme Court decided that the reason why the Minister withdrew her candidacy was to give the legal basis and, as it says here, that constitutional rights had been violated. Therefore, I note from these facts that this has been known to Mr Tratnik, Mr President of the State, and that he considers that, despite the fact that Mr Tratnik has participated in this process, this is not an argument that he would not meet the criteria for a constitutional judge. This question is not irrelevant. Before making a decision, I would like to have all the documentation on this subject. Did the candidate for a constitutional judge indirectly participate in any proceedings where human rights were violated? We should get this as a responsible parliament before we decide.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u92	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u93	Thank you for your word. The replica is intended for a fellow Member, Mr Školč. In fact, it is this obvious why we are entering the National Assembly, namely, what is called a value assessment or definition of how the world-view candidate for a constitutional judge is actually oriented. I don't know why we're bringing it in. It would probably be necessary to ask the author of these letters, Mr Krivica's former constitutional judge, first but it should probably also be asked why he relied on the so-called German practice in choosing a constitutional court. We have Germany as a truly democratic country with a long tradition. And one of the key arguments, or guidance in choosing the composition of the Constitutional Court in Germany, is that the World-Satellite Constitutional Court is balanced. I think it will be possible - fear is in this, not in political decisions. A worse fear will be when it is necessary for the Constitutional Court to decide on a matter of value which, for example, has a constitutional dispute and which will also have a political connotation at its final stage. In this case, I am sure that this so-called German practice is still quite in place and in fact, if we follow the example of the countries that have actually formed the European Union, then I think that one such connotation, if we bring it into this Parliament, also in the selection of constitutional judges and in the composition of the Constitutional Court, is quite appropriate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Mr Ribarič would also like to note that he would like to explain the questions raised by his fellow Members, Mr Drobnic and Mr Podobnik. But we would have exhausted the replicas and debates first. Mr. Kacin, the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would like to replicate or object to a respected colleague who has replicated right in front of me and expressed the thought that it would be appropriate to ask Mr Krivica why he suggested it. This thought seems particularly controversial to me because in this country we have only one president of the country, not just a few shadow presidents who could discuss what the proposal for a constitutional judge should be. That is why I find this kind of argument of Mr Krivica particularly problematic. Mr Krivic was a constitutional judge and now he is talking about political weighing. It is now no longer a matter of professional definition to the knowledge of the candidate, but it is about his political colour, his suitability, his balance and his placement in a wider selection of constitutional judges. I see this as an announcement of Mr Krivica's candidacy as President of the Republic of Slovenia. There is still time for this, but I would still like to allow the current President, who has all the powers, to carry out his mandate and judgment after consulting the parliamentary groups and Members of the nationalities. I simply think that, on the basis of the discussions and calculations, he has identified which candidate for a judge has the opportunity to be elected and acted accordingly. So once again, I object to any debate that would suggest that we have more presidents of the country or, if you want, uncontested, in a shadow that we would like to help, assist this President in order to make a better decision about what is right and what is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rokavec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u97	The replica is intended for the forerunner, Mr. Kacin. Indeed, in this country, it is likely that every citizen can express his views, Mr Kacin, and probably the former Constitutional Judge, Mr Krivic, also has arguments for such an expression of his views in public. I think that we are a democratic country and that in this country we allow all citizens to make their views known, even publicly, at a certain time and time, which is also appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Mr. Puksich, please, a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u99	Look, however, after some of the additional information that came to the fore today in this debate, and the questions whether, therefore, the proposer knew about all these issues, had them before his eyes, but the moral question and the moral criterion set by the previous candidate, Mr Puharič, I think he has set very high actually. In fact, there was an article in the public record. Today, however, there is a decision by the Supreme Court in public and it is such a decision by the Supreme Court, which clearly speaks of the involvement of Mr Tratnik, who also speaks of human rights violations, once as a decision and twice as a newspaper article. It certainly sets out this important and further reflection to the national assembly, to the members of the national assembly in these decisions and, of course, to the criteria which the President, if he knew of all this, said in the representative's speech that he knew about these decisions. For the first time, the President's criteria, which change so much in a few weeks, are questionable and it is likely necessary to give serious thought to this and to give the proposed candidate Tratnik the opportunity to make those moves that would, of course, put the credibility criterion in place.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u100	Thank you very much. I ask Members and Members whether anyone else would like to debate in the general debate. If not, I now give my word to Mr. Fisherman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u101	Thank you very much. In my debate, I will try to respond as much as possible to certain things. Of course, not those that mean political evaluation, because it is the right of every Member, of course, to value, as he does. First of all, new facts. I believe you couldn't remember correctly, but I made it clear, the first letter came in on May 15th, I made it clear, and the 16th and the 20th. And the President's proposal also makes it clear, as you know, that on 14 May he had a consultation with the leaders of the parliamentary groups. And, of course, if there was any thought at that time, it is clear that you would reconsult it with the leaders of the groups. I also made it clear, but it is also right for the public to repeat, because of a letter, one or two or three, one of the proposed candidates who are not supported by anything. The President of the Republic has no basis to deny the candidate the right. For, as I am very specific, Mr Tratnik's participation in the procedure is not a violation of human rights for the notary. And in the judgment, as I no longer saw, as Mr Smallen sent, the judgment found that someone else had violated human rights, not Mr Jože Tratnik. I will not now, of course, extend this debate to others. But nowhere in any act has Jože Tratnik been found to violate human rights. He participated in the first phase of the proposal for notary, which was a positive opinion. He also participated in a session of Kviaz in this house, where he is very, I think with great feeling, here you are some Members who have been with you, said that you need to be very considerate here about what is who, where, and the hands are past, etc. In short, we in the office, when we found no basis for changing our opinion, for the President of the Republic to change his opinion or to inform the public until the matter came to the public or to inform the national assembly if there was no basis for it. This is one thing now. Now, the other thing is about double criteria and balance. Our position, the President of the Republic, has always been, always has been, spoken and publicly with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, and I have always said in Kwiaz that the professional criterion is prescribed by the Constitution. It states that he must be a legal expert. The President of the Republic himself does not go to being a legal expert, but takes into account that if someone is a judge of the Supreme Court in the procedure provided for by law, he is undoubtedly at the top of the highest judicial authority, as set out in the Constitution. That's clear. Secondly, if there's someone in the scientific sphere, at the university and he's a regular professor, then you know, we all know he's back in the process of being habilitating and so on and so on, he's at the top of that structure. The President of the Republic has no authority here and, of course, no ambition to doubt this. Similarly, if someone is a lawyer with 20 years of practice, I do not happen to speak in 20 years, because in the law on courts there is a condition that someone has not worked in the judicial service for 15 years, but now it is others, if he is a recognised lawyer, of course he also has these conditions, similar to the state's attorney. And by the way, if Germany is mentioned. In the German Constitution, there is no talk of balance in the German Constitutional Court Act, but in Germany or Italy or for example. in the Austrian Constitution, but there are certain or different candidates, several candidates, even it is stipulated that there must be so many and so many judges, there are professors and lawyers, executives, there are in Germany that we are clear when we are elected by two assemblies, and there is a bungalow, each part. In the Bundestag, this committee is authorised where factions of Members are, we would say, Members' clubs, after a proportional representation. However, the fact that they had practice in Germany, we all had the opportunity to hear that two of the biggest parties had split the quota in half years ago, but that only a liberal party was once in coalition with someone else and got it from this quota, which could be a practice. In short, I would like to say that the President of the Republic has made this clear in all his performances: he has no intention, he has not worked, and I can also say in peace he will not, in advance, identify the world-viewed orientation. And in the end, I would only allow myself to say that, my respectable colleague Krivic really helped to clear up the matter when he compared it to the football team. In the football team it is certainly the first criterion for Katanco or any other selector to play well, and then they will be able to think about visual, political, national, religious, I do not know any other affiliations. And here, in conclusion, for the President of the Republic, the highest professional criterion is essential. And an alleged visual affiliation cannot replace this deficit if the candidate - and I do not want to underestimate anyone - does not reach this criterion compared to the other candidate who has been declared. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u102	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Sponik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Any comparison of paws, Dr. Fisherman, including comparisons with the football team. Of course, in fact, this comparison is good because it will not win the football team, where there will be nine attackers, there must be bonded players and defensive players. What's the mag? Maybe he's a worse defense player than anyone else? That was the point of Guilty's performance, but I'm not going to talk about it. I'd like to say the following. I myself did not know these arguments and this judgment of the Supreme Court, whether you believe me or not. My friend School doesn't believe me. If I knew that, I'd have told my colleagues, Anderlich, Potch in advance that I had concerns, but I didn't tell these concerns in these days, that's what you'll admit. During this break, we now went to see the stenogram of Quiaz. Look at him, the fraction, President Anderlič, Vice President Sponik at the time, two "the better ones", "the better ones" were there. But, Dr. Fisherman, you're wrong. A stenogram of Mr Tratnik's performance, a performance that was decided that Little Man had failed. I'm not going to read it because it's very sharp because it goes to a personal level of disqualification and so on. And in the end, he says, [[This is the stenogram we've just obtained.]] : 'This is said to be none of the 130s, but the gentleman is formally punished by law,' and then spoke on the half side of very unpleasant and sensitive matters against Mr Malin. Yeah, I know. You can't take him. The Supreme Court found that there was no reason for such a performance. And here Mr Tratnik participated, participated in the process, because this performance was then crucial to the minister that she said "no." You didn't convince me here. Here Mr. Tratnik is responsible, black and white. Black on white!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Mr. Fisherman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u105	Dear Mr Podobnik, I think it is clear to you and everyone else: I do not want to convince anyone, it is my responsibility to try to get you to know the facts. And I ask you nicely, Mr. Tratnik's participation, say, at the Kviaz meeting, yes, that-- he can be there, and he said a lot of interesting things, exactly, but is this a violation of human rights? Not you and me, none of us have the right to say that. [[...]] [[There's a riot in the hall.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u106	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u107	No one has the right to say this because no body has found out. [[...]] No organ found out about this. I mean, that's essential, not that he violated human rights.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u108	Please, the rules of the game are that we don't jump into each other's words, everyone will have a chance. Mr. Podobnik, please express your thoughts in peace.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u109	I'm sorry I jumped into the floor. It got me carried away. I'm sorry. Here is the difference - did Mr. Tratnik tell the truth? The second question is what the Supreme Court said about this procedure - that it did not have a legal basis and that constitutional rights were violated. Ergo!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr. Fisherman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u111	I'd like to make as few calls as possible. Only the Supreme Court did not say that Mr. Tratnik had violated it. Because that's the logic, because he was there because he was talking, because there was a lot of other people. Is it not a violation of human rights if someone speaks? This must be determined by the competent authority, the court. And that's got to do with it. If that were true, Mr Tratnik could not be a judge of the Supreme Court, he should not have been elected. If we found that out now, then, of course, I would lose this status, but of course, in the legal process. That's it, please. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Another replica, Mr. Skull and then Mr. Kremjar. Mr. Sculpture, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u113	Well, some of this has already been said, but we're coming to a very interesting area. Let us say that we accept Mr Sponik's thesis that Mr Tratnik has violated human rights through the debate at Kviaz. He did not make a decision on Kwiaz, and Mr Podobnik did. And someone else. Let us draw from this conclusion. So I think in this debate it's worth checking to see if this is really a violation. As far as I know - and that's why I don't believe Mr Sponik that he doesn't know anything about it - it's been a big topic for years, accompanied by newspapers, a hunger strike, with all sorts of others, even with the EMI, but I didn't know that he was, of course, a member of this chain that made the decision in this process. Mr Malhn's problem, when he was running for Notary, was that he did not arrive at the first quota where the appointment was made, and later there was no vacancy under this quota. When he was running for Notary Chamber, and these fellows, I don't think they accepted him. But this isn't a debate right now, about this. And I'm sorry. The debate is whether there are reasons to question this candidacy that we have today on the table or not. Papers that circled the hall and cause the break to take place give no reason for that. There's even less reason for that. Because if these explanations give reasons for this, then this House has a nice number of people who have been involved in human rights violations. Let us also consider this aspect.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Replicas in the following order: Mr Kremjar, Mr Drobnič and then Mr Podobnik. Mr. Kremjar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I mean, Mr Podobnik, that you did not understand correctly, or perhaps you have missed a bit of reading of this text. Dr. Fisherman tried to warn you, but you didn't want to understand it. The Supreme Court certainly did not judge what anyone on Kviaz was discussing. This is not the basis for the ruling of the Supreme Court. The basis for the ruling of the Supreme Court is for someone to take a decision. And that's someone who's authorized to do that. I think that in this case it was the Minister and so on, which she did, and if the Supreme Court pleads on this matter, then make a statement not about those who have discussed it in any way or another, but about those who have proposed a decision, in short, about the Commissioner who can do so. Why am I replicating? Because today's debate and ideas, which you've talked about a lot, and a lot of people have already talked about here today, about the fact that it's supposed to be a world-viewed and I don't know what kind of orientation one of the criteria for appointing someone to be a constitutional judge. It is precisely this debate that shows that this would be completely wrong. Therefore, as long as there are no written criteria written down very clearly, because of me, a Parliament can agree that political orientations are essential or thus, under b, when appointing constitutional judges, only then must the criteria be written down. Then it must be said that, I don't know, I have this in mind, although I do not agree with this, let me immediately say that the parties should propose constitutional judges, let them, in short, be some perfectly clear criteria. Of course, proposals are possible, but the President of the State, as Dr. Fishery has tried to explain several times today, has basically the first and only criteria written in the Constitution, and this is the expertise of the people who propose them. And even so far as it doesn't judge, so I understood Dr. Fisherman, completely alone about it, but believed or believed clearly the proponents who, of course, justified why someone was professional enough to be that and that. There have to be rules. And today's debate is going this way, because we are now speaking without rules about Mr Tratnik as it seems to someone. And you know, that's wrong. And that's why I'm basically against the way he didn't say it, but it seems to someone that someone could be, and it's like, "Yeah, well, I could put this around the left corner, and this could be around the right corner." Then, of course, mistakes are made and injustices are committed. And it's not good to do that. And this, be careful, in the body that should judge at the top of this pyramid in many cases whether something is consistent with legislation or with the constitution or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The debate itself shows that my suggestion that the matter should be re-examined or given to the applicant to judge these facts is indeed true. See, Mr President of the State has taken into account the new findings in the case of Puharič, although Mr Puharič has not violated human rights in any way. Well, then Mr. President took it back or we sent it back for review. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u118	Mr Drobnič, for the second time in the debate today, you are embodying the indisputable statements of Mr Ribaric. These facts, mentioned here today, were before the President of the Republic when he made his decision. The representative of the Office of the President of the Republic did not see any new facts in this House today. Therefore, Mr Drobnic, I ask you to continue your replica in the context of the answers you receive. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u119	Surely these things are additional, further justifying the need for reflection, certainly. Now for choice and political direction. I've never said anything about that before. I don't think it's necessary to write it down. However, those who represent some kind of sieve in this country that proposes candidates should take this into account in the light of this democratic state. Not that we are warning him or that others are warning him that Mr Krivic is warning him. I would expect this from such, that is, the most important person in this country to take this into account and propose it. Otherwise, in the light of the vote, we may get another form of the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court and every human being are an integral part of the profession, consisting of part of the profession, political orientation and more. Personalities, too, and all these things, of course, we judge. In the first place, of course, his expertise and his personal attitude, his personality. However, it is also important, as we see in the world, also this political one. Apparently, the President of the country didn't take that into account. I won't say anything about that. I can only say that if we continue this practice, we will have a wall instead of a constitutional court. This will happen, of course, at the expense of all our citizens and also at the expense of us. That's what's going on in your mind. I'm not answering anymore.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Replica Mr. Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u121	Thank you very much. A brief replica of Mr. Kremjar. I don't speak without rules or my mind, my performance is only related to the documents I have. I want to explain. I don't have all the documents, and it would be good to get everything. Here is the judgment on behalf of the people, which states why the Supreme Court has decided that the Ministry, when it rejected Mr Malhn's candidacy, has done so on the basis of the argument that the appointed candidate is already in criminal proceedings. And that was not true or that is not an argument to be made, and Mr Tratnik spoke about these things at the Kviaz meeting. And that's black in white here. It was his fault. At the same time, at a press conference, he was informed that he had spoken the same thing, but here in his statement it is clear that he admitted that he had worked there. So it's not only about someone performing at the Kviaz meeting, but on the basis of this performance it's from the first round, colleague Školč, Mr Malihen was proposed for the first team and based on this performance on Kviaz was eliminated. Right, it's from the stenogram. I was active on this subject myself at the time. And then the Supreme Court found that the process of expulsion from the first team was in contravention of the legislation in force and that constitutional rights were violated. Members and Members of Kviaz did not decide anything at the time, because the Ministry once again proposed a second list where Mr Mahn was not present. But I objected to such a solution at the time, and that was my role back then. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Two more replicas, Mr. Barovic, then Mr. Anderlich. Mr. Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u123	Thank you very much. First of all, I respect Mr Podobnik for everything he has done, what he is doing and what he will do, as a Member of Parliament, President of Parliament. Secondly, I believe that the President of the State invited him to talk before Mr Tratnik was proposed for what we are talking about today. Thirdly, I believe that Mr Podobnik, if this fact of which you are talking then has shown these facts to the President. Fourthly, I believe that if I saw them, the President of the Republic of Slovenia would also examine all the facts and decide according to his conscience and judgment. I do not understand, however, that today, before we decide when the function, role and mandate of this Parliament is to decide on the proposal, we find out, we are looking for new facts and so on. I understand that they may come later, but each of the members, I am sure, has had the opportunity to speak with the President of the State and I trust Mr Milan Kučan so much that the names can be written by Tratnik or whatever, I do not know anyone, I would not force myself into thinking and all the weights. That's what I don't understand today. I do not understand respected colleagues, who I know are doing their work conscientiously and who are aware of the work of this Parliament, know constitutional provisions and know the procedure of the President of the State, what constitutional provisions are and what our task is in the National Assembly. On the third day, dear colleagues, we lose at three points and do nothing. We will bear all the criticisms despite all the effort and work we all do together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u125	In all things, I appreciate Mr Podobnik's extraordinary perseverance, which in fact has now gone through the fourth scenario of how to achieve the first one, which he took in the first performance, so that we can find a way not to elect this candidate. These were the first words in the introduction to this point. And, of course, then everything was used, until the insolent case of Small, which we both, Mr Podobnik, both know very well; from the fact that he was hungry to strike, and so on, due to a well-known case and also certain activities, which we all had in our beliefs and positions at the time. But it is not true what you are saying that Mr Tratnik was expelled because of what Mr Tratnik said at the Kviaza meeting. No, it's not. We have closed the meeting of Kviaz to the public in order to inform some of the facts of the then-respected assembly where we participated - in order to inform, and Mr Mohe was in charge of penalisation at that time, notably within Kviaz - that this notice would be accepted by Kviaz and that he would later receive a new proposal, of course from the minister who was proposed. After all, it is also certain that Mr Smallen later had the opportunity to re-emerge in the role of notary - and you know why he is not. But I don't want to continue this discussion in any way, because the arguments for Mr Tratnik are clear to me, because you want to go through with your candidate, and you're taking advantage of the hardship of the man, Mr Malin and his writing. He wrote a lot of public writings, a lot of things are famous, and of course he put himself in the right place where others sort him. And he's one of the candidates and he's just fighting for his position, for his ability to be proposed. Unfortunately, unfortunately, he was not proposed by the President. I don't think there's anything else to be done right now than going to a candidate decision. It will be clear from the vote. As was the case when we were familiar with certain facts at the meeting of Kviaz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, it's 13 o'clock. I conclude the general debate. At 2.30 p.m., we will proceed to the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u127	Dear Members and honourable Members! We continue the afternoon session. All those who are not yet in the hall, please join us because we will determine our presence. And before that, the next notice. They are further excused for the continuation of the 16th session on 23.5.2002: Andrej Vizjak, Jožef Jerovšek for the afternoon part of the session and Ivan Mamić from 17:00 onwards. I'm asking for your attention, because we're going to be able to determine the presence. We're detecting a presence. There are 52 of us present, the National Assembly is adjourned and may decide. We continue with the consideration of the 30th paragraph, which is the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a judge of the Constitutional Court. We're in the voting phase. In accordance with Article 87 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the assembly on the election of a candidate as a judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia shall vote in secret. In accordance with Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, a secret ballot shall be held by the Presidents-general of the General Assembly and by the four Members elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have already forwarded me proposals for the members of the panel that leads the vote. These are Richard Beumann, Branko Kelemina, Aurelio Juri and Sonja Areh Lavrič, and I am also a member of this commission as Chairman. Does anyone object to this proposal? [[No, no, ……]] We are moving on to a decision on the composition of the Commission. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 97 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote shall be delivered to the Members by each Member to the table of the President and shall state his name and surname. The Member who will assist me in the exercise of the vote shall deliver a vote to each Member and the Secretary-General of the State Assembly shall indicate on the name and surname of the Member on the list that the vote has been delivered to him. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "against". In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 98 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an unfulfilled ballot or a ballot, which is not completed in accordance with the instructions referred to above, shall be invalid. May I have your attention in the hall, please? Once again, I would like to point out that the unfulfilled voice and voice, which is not fulfilled in accordance with the instructions mentioned above, is invalid by surrounding "for" or "against". In accordance with Article 14 of the Constitutional Court Act, the candidate will be elected to the post of Constitutional Judge if the majority of all Members vote in favour, that is 46 or more. We will vote in the Chamber. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are therefore moving on to a secret ballot. I ask the Member and Members of Parliament to assist me in voting in room 217, immediately where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will begin at 2.55 p.m. and will continue until 15.10. After the vote, I ask Members of Parliament and Members to assist me in the vote to meet in room 117. So we'll continue the meeting at 3.25 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u128	Colleagues and colleagues, please join us. We'll be able to determine the presence first. We're picking up a presence at the hall. We were not successful in the first determination of attendance. I think there's enough of us in the hall, so I'm asking for your attention, and I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues who are around, and I'm asking them to join us. Next time, we find presence in the hall. There are 50 of us present. I understand the assembly is adjourned. I publish the outcome of the vote in the minutes on the finding of a vote on the election of a judge of the Constitutional Court. The vote was held on 23 May 2002 at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. 75 ballots were distributed, 75 votes were delivered, one voice was invalid, 74 votes were valid. There were 50 votes in favour, 24 against. [[Let's hear it.]] On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Mr Jože Tratnik was elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia. I ask Mr Jožet Tratnik, Judge of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia, to swear before the National Assembly. Mr. Tratnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u129	I swear that I will judge by the Constitution and the law and by my conscience and by my every effort to achieve constitutionality and legality and to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u130	Mr. Tratnik, allow us to offer you sincere congratulations on your appointment and on your successful work in the future. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u131	Madam President, honourable Members and honourable Members! I'd like to thank you for your election. I would also like to thank the President of the Republic for his confidence that he has proposed me and the Notary Chamber, which has given me the initiative and made me a candidate for judges of the Constitutional Court. No matter what the debate was about my world-class belief, I repeat the oath that I have just made to work with all my powers, my knowledge and my conscience on the basis of the Constitution and the law. No visual belief will prevent me from making a different decision to change the constitution in order to change the laws. In my current career as a public prosecutor or as a senior civil servant in the state administration, I respected this principle. I was a public prosecutor, a municipal and a district attorney, I was a deputy minister, I was a deputy minister in the Demos government, I was a deputy minister and a secretary of state in the government, where I was a minister of liberal democracy, where I was a minister of the people's party, and I respected the principle of constitutionality, legality and conscience everywhere. I have not abused political conviction anywhere, and I promise not to do so in advance. Thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u132	Thank you. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to the interrupted 2nd TIME OF THE DAY RED, this is to continue the discussion on the proposal for a consultative referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO. We have completed the presentation of the parliamentary groups and have heard the performance of the Minister of Defence and Foreign Affairs. I have here reports of fellow Members who have the opportunity to speak indefinitely in writing. First, I will invite my colleague Barovic, my colleague Kacin, to the floor. Please, you have the floor, and if I may, please try to present your views as much as possible. Please, Comrade Barovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My words will be no more and no less than they were intended for discussion yesterday, when I asked you, both in person and in public, that the discussion or that the right of Members in this national assembly should continue to conclude the discussions of the leaders of the groups, that the debate should be concluded by Members and Members and representatives of the government who had the previous right to speak yesterday to answer last. The agreement was just so that you allowed representatives of the government, namely the Foreign Minister and the Minister of Defence, which, on behalf of colleagues and colleagues of this National Assembly, I estimate that it is not fair and unfair, because in this National Assembly we decide Members and Members, and our respected colleagues and colleagues from the Government certainly have the right to obtain it through the Rules of Procedure. No matter what, I'm gonna start like this. However you think the Slovenian national party is Eurosceptic, it is not, but it is Euro-realistic and it is against Nat. I am an active participant in many events, events and trips around the world. As far as the European Union is concerned, it is also linked to defence and security policy. And wherever I emphasize Slovenia's right to be an equal member of international organisations, they have told me: you have no right, no right or right to blackmail, because if you want to be members of a club, you have to respect their rules. Although I said I understand that if you're a member of a club, you have to respect the rules of this club, and you have the right to participate in this club's rules. And I'm sure my colleagues and colleagues agree with me. And what does this have to do with Nate? Allow me to quote the statement of the distinguished President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan: "But our life in the shelter of this place, with all its advantages, also brings responsibilities." The second sentence reads as follows: "Effective defence today provides only a collective defence system in the system of collective security. This is built on the belief that peace is indivisible; in this system it is not possible to expect others to defend our peace and our security, but themselves would not be willing to do anything for their defence and for their common security." With this, we have made it clear that Slovenia's involvement in NATO brings not only benefits that we heard about yesterday, but also the responsibility that Slovenians as a Slovenian nation will have to give. At the same time, there is also a need to talk about things that are not discussed, and these are, I hope that colleagues and colleagues will respect, reasoned, clear and valuable reflections, including for the Slovenian people. Europe is at a crossroads as far as security and defence policy is concerned. The State of the Republic of Slovenia has two paths. The integration into NATO and the second path in which we are heading is integration into the European Union. The European Union's defence and security policy is completely inconsequential. The European Union does not have this defence and security policy. Those who deal with the affairs of the European Union know that words, opinions, have been spoken in the past, think that the European Union will have its own security and defence forces, which are not spoken of today. Europe today, believe it or not, aims to ensure that the security and defence policy of the European Union is implemented by NATO. Today, colleagues from Greece who are visiting told us clearly and loudly that they are members of NATO and are also members of the European Union, that America and Britain do not want the European military. At the same time, they mentioned the value of the euro as European currencies and the value or increase in the power of the European economy. My party colleague, Slovenian National Party champion Zmago Jelinčič, already said yesterday that NATO is 80 per cent of trade and 20 per cent of military institutions. Today we got a piece of this in confirmation from our guests. Let's just drop it. For our people, it is important for our Slovenians to decide who provides us with greater security. Or the already emerging European Union, of course with some clear security and defence policy, or NATO. The answer is perfectly clear. Between the two decisions, the decision for the European Union is certainly much more appropriate and much safer, for as long as peace - I am talking about peace on a global scale - as we have seen it for a long time in the context of the creation of the European Union. What about nato? Then the institution, which you probably know was also established to counter the Warsaw Pact or vice versa, the Warsaw Pact was a counterweight to NATO. What's NATO today? How much peace does he give us? Where do Nate's forces come from? Who are the constituents of these Nat forces? You probably have an answer, at least as far as the Slovenian national parties are concerned, you do not have to say it clearly and loudly. Then, today, the Slovenian people are not as safe as the European Union would be provided if necessary. The question of the referendum, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. The question is: it was invited first, and then the referendum, or first the referendum and then the invitation. In the Slovenian National Party, we are absolutely, not relatively, absolutely convinced that a referendum is needed first and then invited. And let me explain why. Because at the referendum, Slovenian citizens and citizens will express their will. They'll say it's in NATO or not in NATO. If Slovenians and Slovenians say, Nato and Slovenia, yes, the country has received the legitimate will of Slovenia, the people living in it to express in writing or verbally the relation then the request that the State, the Republic of Slovenia, wish to enter into this relationship, or vice versa, that then the peaceful country, the Republic of Slovenia, can then invite NATO and we can peacefully say that, let the state go, we will become NATO, because the people so decided at the referendum. The National Assembly was elected, we heard yesterday, on behalf of the Slovenes and the Slovenians. Strangely, most of us, I will say, allow me to think 82 Members and Members are in favour of NATO, 8 or 7 of us are against this moment, at least as far as the vote on this referendum is concerned. But if we look at the research, we see that more than or at least half of the Slovenians are undecided or slightly less opposed to being included in NATO. This relationship is unclear, not legitimate. Again, allow me to quote from President Milan Kučan's speech. He spoke of Drnovšk and said: "His proposal to hold a referendum will therefore be most credible. But you will decide, ladies and gentlemen, you will." I don't know if that's true. I don't know if that's true. Firstly, I do not agree that the Prime Minister's proposal to hold a referendum will be the most credible and I do not know if it is true that we Members will decide on this. These two sentences are the opposite. I will quote another sentence from yesterday's speech by Mr President: "It is important that so far the National Assembly and its parliamentary representatives confirm their commitment and support to Slovenia's direction towards Euro-Atlantic ties, to the European Union and to NATO." Mr President may express his opinion that it is important for the National Assembly, in which the parliamentary parties represented, to confirm the commitment and support of Slovenia's orientation towards Euro-Atlantic links. But we must decide whether to confirm it or to reject it. We know that every speech delivered by the distinguished Mr President of the State, as well as by the President of the Government, especially in public. And that the public can change their minds in that day and in that hour when they both speak. If citizens and citizens believe in what was said and heard yesterday, fine. However, if they believe they should decide if they assess that the speeches and incentives for joining NATO were correct, they should decide on this at the referendum. Then I, as a Member of the Slovenian National Party, will have a clear conscience in this National Assembly in any case. If I do not know whether citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia believe that Slovenia should be included in NATO or not, then I will not decide for it, ever and never. The Slovenian national party is against Nate, and it will be against Nate, because I will not answer and I will not be guilty if I do, and God forbid that Slovenian boys come in black plastic bags from where they come from. I've read it before, and then it doesn't just mean receiving, it means giving. Once again, Mr Janša said yesterday that the global reform of the Slovenian Armed Forces and the defence system is crucial and necessary. I fully agree with him, but with the big correction, yes, it is necessary, but not because of Nate, but because of the Slovenian Army. Yesterday, however, it was said that if we want to go to NATO, we must make a global reform of the Slovenian Army. We have to do it for the Slovenian Army, not for Nate. And one last thing, the question of peace. I agree, peace is a fundamental principle and a fundamental driving force for the development of each country. The President of the country's speech expresses concern for the disadvantaged who threaten us, who neither know nor know the democracy nor the rule of law nor border. I agree that there are also such, but such can be fought by any country that has developed a democracy that is peaceful and that has in its political, enforcement, legislative and judicial system such quality, useful and capable people as to know through diplomatic channels, the legal path and the way of peace, the sovereignty of its own country, and the people who love and love their country. They're mostly Slovenians. That is why we Slovenians have once demonstrated how much we love this country when we adopted it without the help of NATO or any other military or non-military institution. And the Slovenians will always have that power and willpower. I therefore stress once again, my fellow Members and colleagues, that there is a clear position on NATO in the Slovenian National Party. It is ours and we have the right to express it - we are against inclusion. Therefore, as a member of the Slovenian National Party, I personally support the proposal of the Young Slovenia Party for a previous referendum, and I promise that the moment when all Slovenians and Slovenes will express themselves in such a and real referendum, it is their will to join NATO, that their will be in spite of the customer's direction that I will respect the will of the Slovenian people. Thank you for your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u134	Thank you, Comrade Barovich. Replo's got a play on you, Comrade Ashish.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u135	Thank you very much. I will be brief, but I would only try to explain something to my colleague Barovic, which he certainly knows, but he interpreted differently. Perhaps I would even agree with the referendum, as proposed, if it were really about whether Slovenia should apply for a union to join NATO. But we've already asked for it. We have agreed for a long time in Parliament to apply for admission to NATO. And we expect this request to be resolved in one way or another. So at this point we do not ask whether Slovenia should apply for admission to NATO, so all parliamentary political parties agreed that this referendum would, in the final stage, if implemented, give an answer to only one parliamentary party who was not present in Parliament during the previous term, to draw up its own opinion on whether it is in favour or against, since it is evident that they do not have a position to do so in the parties. And the referendum we'd like to make before the invitation can be a little funny. It's very strange, like, if you expect an invitation from someone, either at a wedding or at anything else, and even before you get that invitation, you reject it. And then you can get an answer, because we weren't even going to invite you. I mean, it's really strange that invitations are expected to continue to vote on whether or not we should accept this invitation. I am also in favour of the referendum, and I think we will meet all the demands of the Slovenian public to call for a referendum when we really decide whether to accept an invitation or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u136	Thank you very much. My colleague Janša has the floor. Then he asked for a replica to be played by his colleague, Mr. Auschwitz colleague Vnučec, first. Please, Comrade Janša.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u137	Thank you for your word. Kolga Barovic quoted one of my statements yesterday regarding the reform in the Slovenian Army and said that reform was needed mainly because of the military and not because of NATO. Hold both of them. There is a huge difference in the approach to this reform and the final outcome of the reform must be necessarily different, whether or not Slovenia will be a member of NATO. I don't think you need to explain that to a layman. If Slovenia does not become a NATO member, then all the desires to reduce the size of the Slovenian Army's war composition to 20 and 25 thousand people are only a beautiful desire and utopia. However, if we go to NATO, such plans and targets are, of course, fully achievable. If we do not go to NATO, Mr Barovic, we will just have to maintain the Slovenian Army's military composition there at 60, 70 000, take care of the equipment and everything else. There's a significant difference here, besides everyone else. The real reform is being carried out because of us and also because of NATO, or more precisely, this reform can lead to significantly more rationalisation in the long term if Slovenia goes to NATO than it does in the long term. But what I think is contradictory to your performance is, of course, your opposition to Nate, despite the fact that someone you said should believe under the previous item of the agenda, Slovenia's membership in NATO supports. When we discussed the proposal by the President of the State for a Constitutional Judge, you said that this proposal should be supported because we have to trust the institution of the President of the State in what we are discussing and wasting our time. We heard the president of the state here yesterday, who was specifically committed to NATO, but he obviously didn't convince you. And I'm asking you why you have double standards on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Let's go in one order. A few hands were raised. First of all, my colleague, the Grandchild. Did I see correctly, Comrade Badger, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] Okay. Then I will give my word to my colleague Barovic and [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to reply to my distinguished colleague, Mr Ašić, when he mentioned that the Youth Party had proposed a referendum in order to define itself. Here I have to oppose him, because the Youth Party has proposed a referendum because it does not want to please citizens just one month before the elections, it does not want to play the political elite, not us Members, nor the party's leadership, but we follow the public opinion and the will of the citizens. At the moment, the public opinion is on the side of the Consultative Referendum up to 70%. Some top legal experts also advocate and confirm that it would be most proper for the consultation referendum to be before the invitation, because Madrid should not be repeated to us when the public opinion was very much for entry, we expected an invitation, and we were not invited in the end. That's why I don't think we can afford to be here again, so no matter what, there wouldn't be an invitation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u140	Thank you very much. Comrade Barovic, replica to colleague Janša probably.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u141	Of course, thank you very much, because I'm going to be very short and very fickle. Dear colleague Janez Janš, let us leave the first part of the speech of globalisation, I said I agree with your theory, but this theory is important to me because of the Slovenian army, not because of Nate. Let's leave it at that. As for yours, of course, a politically experienced statement about double criteria, but only something. Firstly, you are probably so experienced in politics that you know what the facts that are, I say, the facts that have decided to appoint here today, that is, the facts, given on paper, with name, surname, yearbooks, diploma, experience and so on and you probably know that yesterday's speech by the President of the Republic of Slovenia was a speech in which the fact is few, but there are many assumptions, guesses and desires. These are essential differences. And one more thing I would ask you, I believe that you may not have had time, but if you would listen to me carefully, you could hear quotes from the speech of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, Mr Milan Kučan, whom I still respect and to a large extent, I also believe that I have read these quotations to him and also these quotations. So one is the facts that define the name, surname, school, education, knowledge, experience, and the other is guesswork and conjecture, so I have the right to say it at one point and the other. In this case, it is not about double criteria, unless you are thinking differently, but of course you have every right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u142	And the final replica of my colleague Peca. No, he's canceling. This way we can go to the debates ahead and invite my colleague Kacin to the floor. You have the floor, Comrade Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u143	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, honourable colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the motioners. I would like to begin by objecting to some of the statements made at the outset by the distinguished colleague Barovic. He referred to the Greek delegation and said that the United States and Britain did not want a European army. Even if that were true, that is not something to be said in public, indeed not, it is an ally state, especially if it is a group of friendships. If it was a delegation and someone said something, it could have been said by an individual. But I would ask that in the future, when you say how it is, you also take into account possible international consequences. This is the first rule to be followed when we talk about integration or opposition to integration into any international organisation. You said security is guaranteed by the European Union. Perhaps, I do not believe you, but the European Union gives us economic opportunities and military security does not guarantee us. And even if that were true, your party to the European Union also opposes our membership in it. At least that's what I've been thinking so far; you can change your mind one day, as you've always done, but for now it's the official position of your party to oppose entry into the European Union. So you object that the European Union would ensure our security, as you just said. What you said doesn't stand facing your own statements. You say, then we don't have half as much contribution as the European Union. It is possible, but I cannot believe you, because Nate's soldiers are much more important than European soldiers in the immediate vicinity, but a little more distant, but certainly where our former common country is still in need and welcome. Of course, I'm happy to see you perform, if it means a spin, a salad mortal. On 17 April 1997, the President of your party, as one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, signed under a joint document supporting our entry into the European Union and NATO. Then this signature was withdrawn. If what you've said is a prediction, I'm just glad you might add it in the next phase, even though you said you're against it harshly for now. Now I am moving on to my debate. When I was preparing for this address, I had to look for some information, and I'd start with the next one. The subsequent legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Treatment of Infertility and Infertility Procedures with Biomedical Assistance, which was held on Sunday, 17 June 2001, demanded 366 million Slovenian Tolars from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. The legislative referendum on financing the construction of the Trbovlje III thermal power plants, which was held on 10 January 1999, cost us 359 million Slovenian tolars. The referendum proposed by the Youth Party will certainly not be cheaper than these two amounts, given the indexation. But when someone suggests that a country beyond the current budget, when we talk about saving, spends additional resources while it does not know how to define itself, it is very strange, very unusual, in my view, an inappropriate position. I'd believe the Young People's Party if I defined myself. So far I have challenged them often publicly, yesterday they had the opportunity to speak on behalf of the party and then finally Mr Štemberger himself personally, they have reiterated that their views on whether they are in favour or against are still not. With, excuse me, I'm going to round up 400 million tolars of costs, someone has the luxury of not having a point of view. It requires the use of these funds, and now, immediately. We are all in favour of a referendum, and we all agree to use these funds when the time is right and we will be able to identify ourselves. But I'm talking about morality, so I thought it was important to say something more about it. The second part of my contribution would refer to yesterday's debate and the debate that will follow this agenda item is the story of graves to shorten. When they established NATO, it was established by the winners of World War II. The winners of World War II also invited in this connection the greatest conqueror of World War II, it is said, Germany. And they set up NATO. The Warsaw Agreement was also established, but in this time it was invited and adopted by the former communist countries. This will then sign an agreement next week with the Russian Federation, which is the successor of the Soviet Union. In the light of our discussions yesterday, it seems important to me to note that NATO has calmed down the winners and the losers of World War II, as well as the two great ideological contradictions that persisted after that. What we heard yesterday about communism is no longer a dilemma, for the former communist states have also entered NATO. And one conditionedly communist state, I apologize, if I speak so much of the Russian Federation, is now so close to being a genitor. And that means, in our light, a significant step towards getting things done. Therefore, it seems to me that after we are in NATO, all of us who are heirs to the former winners and losers in the second war in our territory will be a little easier to see into the future and will be a little less embarrassed between us. Therefore, in the light of these former alliances, it seems particularly important to note that this will contribute to improving bilateral relations with our neighbours. At least two of our neighbours are members of NATO, Italy and Hungary. I don't want to talk too much about Hungary, I'd rather say more about the Republic of Italy, which is substantially, substantially bigger than we are. As I have said before and again, I will be very happy when we are in NATO and our most left-wing governments will also be forced to cooperate with the most right-wing governments in Italy and to respect themselves as allies. Then there will be significantly less ideological definition of what is smart for a neighbouring country, what is acceptable for us and what is not acceptable for us. Some people just enjoy the luxury of identifying themselves through ideological glasses until the Italian government. I don't hope so, but I'm on the left side of the political spectrum, so no one will get hurt if I say I belong downtown. But some people do. It therefore seems to me that it is extremely important to create long-term conditions for intelligence services, in particular the military intelligence services of these two countries, to be forced to sit at one table and to exchange information in a timely manner that affects the security and threat of both countries. In 1991 we conquered ourselves, and after this independence we also gained independence. We're 11 years older today. I don't know if it's the role of sclerosis and we forget what we're really learning then or should we learn, but after that war, there were so many bloody wars and terrible beatings in our immediate vicinity that all of them needed to learn from them, and some of them were again and again awkwardly surprised at the development of events. And as if they wanted to forget all the terrible and disastrous experiences and consequences in other countries, the successors of Yugoslavia, some are once again convinced that something like this can never happen to us again. I was just raised and trained in a system where I was killed in the head so that something like this could never happen again. My parents claimed to be the last generation that ever happened to them. And we were surprised, and that's what happened to us. It is time for the Republic of Slovenia to reduce the possibility and risk of surprises in the future to the minimum that we make our security, political, economic environment predictable and stable. It is right that the period of our real planning, the realistic approach to credible assessments, should be extended as far as possible in the future. We're just one of the rare and happy countries that didn't have to count and bury missing and dead in the terrorist attacks in the United States after 9/11. Terrorism does not ask for sex, not by age, not by race, not by religion or by citizenship of accidental victims, because the victim does not choose, only counts them. He wants there to be as many as possible. Therefore, terrorism threatens our values, our value system, our rights and freedoms and our civilization. That's why NATO reacted so quickly, so united and so effective. He wasn't allowed to dream, just like we did on our own. He's responded to something as unique as he's ever responded to before. Then he proved that he was not only needed and current, but also very effective. Therefore, NATO is not, cannot and must not be a self-service trade to which everyone can enter, including the Republic of Slovenia, at a time when suddenly the surprise surprise finds that it needs a part of its offer and therefore decides at the last minute to purchase the goods and services sought in a minimum quantity, as much as we need and nothing more. NATO will never again be a replacement or reserve trade available 24 hours a day, and then at a lower price it will enable us to do something that others pay and provide on the principles of collective security for years and decades. NATO and NATO membership simply do not exist and must not be for sale. This can't be discussed in the campaign "for" or "against" Nate. I have long believed that NATO membership is not only our opportunity, but also the real need and rationally the best option. However, how to explain to people who are not interested in politics or security, and at least things outside our country's borders, that this challenge needs to be addressed, identified, decided on, and our membership in it as soon as possible, if it is not yet possible for the referendum to be proposed, loved and not worth defining. How can we be credible and help people to define themselves? There is no other option than to present publicly, clearly and unequivocally and explain our views on NATO membership. Our membership is the most effective, best, cheapest, most long-term and most secure insurance policy for our country, our economy and our long-term success and security. Membership in NATO is proof of our excellence, legal security and the reliability of foreign investments in us. It is worth more than ISO standards. But I would be very happy if the Minister for the Economy said something like that. These are the economic consequences. The Ministry of Economy has so far not been defined and, as far as I am concerned, is in the same position as the Young Slovenia Party. I expect that all government departments will be able to identify themselves to these challenges. Since I've asked people how to explain this stuff, I'm going to try to explain it in an unused, somewhat unusual way so far. In February 1991, the President and three members of the then Presidency of the Republic of Slovenia, who was the Commander-in-Chief of the then territorial defence of the Republic of Slovenia, as well as a member of the then Government of Demos, signed a so-called declaration of peace today in this Chamber. At that time, I publicly condemned her and assessed her as supporting the unilateral disarmament of Slovenia. I also made this serious political mistake to Mr Kučan in the 1992 presidential elections, as in Belgrade immediately after the signing, she has raised an extraordinary attention and raised the wrong impression that, despite the clear and clear results of the plebiscite, we are fluctuating in a decisive phase on the way to our independence. Even then, some have shown peacemaking, even just before the greatest and most enduring test of our maturity and determination in preparation for the realization and military guarantee of independence. I went to that statement one more time today. When we read it today, eleven years later, one simply wonders how someone could have signed something like that. But let me tell you. This happened before we were attacked. This happened when we believed that no one would ever attack us again and that someone else would do something for us that we should have done for ourselves long ago. I'm just going to quote a few indents: "Investing in the military complex is a dead end which reduces the chances of a policy of non-violent resolution of political disputes, and within individual countries constitutes a constant threat to democratic regulation." This was the reason why some of them signed under it. Next indent: "As a nation that is yet to emerge, it must redefine its order and its policy and the issue of the military is one of the fundamental development dilemmas." That's a blue thought. But - "even if the Republic of Slovenia establishes such a strong army, it cannot be measured with neighbouring countries. Moreover, the military conflict in Slovenian territory for Slovenia would be a disaster." Even if there was a military conflict of disaster, it's not worth investing in our own defenses, we'll do it. We have a declaration of peace. "The establishment of an army of its own would be a dramatic threat to the already modest accumulation of the Slovenian economy and population..." and so on. And now comes the wisest thought. Listen carefully to this: "Slovenia is located in a relatively conflict area or at least on its edge. Therefore, by eliminating the military, developing institutions for non-violent resolution of disputes and peace policy, it can make an important contribution to the peaceful break-up of relations in Yugoslavia and beyond, and the world, as part of its efforts for international recognition, presents itself as a state of good will," I stress, "a country of good will that cultivates a comprehensive understanding of peace in the world, a peace that cannot be achieved through repression into national military and defence concepts." And last but not least, this is now the last indent: "Slovenia has a positive historical experience from non-violent efforts for political democratisation and state independence," they wrote and signed before our independence, which took place slightly differently. I told you who signed this, maybe Janša's colleagues weren't in at the time. Now the president of the country does not repeat such a political error, but is only as an individual and as an institution as firm as possible for our membership in NATO. That was clear here yesterday, not only did he say it, but he also said it because he was with us to the end. Even if his mandate expires, there is no way of avoiding responsibility, risking public misunderstanding and clearly exposing himself to the interests of the State and the majority of people in the long term. If anyone does, he has all the necessary domestic and international experience for a comprehensive and clear and decisive view. We learn from mistakes. If our President of State has learned something, if our Prime Minister has learned something, if any other member of the government has learned something, it is positive, and we have heard it all here yesterday, in presenting our views and assessments. The only one who has not learned anything about this so far is the Rector of the University of Ljubljana, who still insists on this position, even though he was then, I think the only member of our Government of Demos who has signed this declaration. Therefore, I think it is important and necessary for us to say that even the most experienced political leaders are being misjudged, but that these errors can and must be corrected. Of course, I cannot object to the parties of young people or to the four signatories to the referendum or to the President of the party, Dominik Savi Černjak, who do not have a position on this because they may be slightly younger than us. But if we've been talking about this for two days now, it might be possible to hear something here and learn from it because we don't need new rectors in the future. You can and should learn something from your own mistakes. As part of the former Yugoslavia, we are the most convincing evidence and an example of possible directions for the development and future of other successors of Yugoslavia. Our security contributes to their stability and their stability contributes to our security. Our membership in NATO will be the greatest incentive for the political elites of these countries to move faster on our path, so all these countries also deserve our and international support and assistance on this path towards a common goal. In transition, democratisation, standardisation, reconstruction, development and international integration, we have supported them so far and will support them in the future. It's easier if we're in Nate and we're more confident if we're in Nate. Therefore, the enlargement process of NATO with our membership in Central and South-Eastern Europe must not be completed. Further reductions in the size of our army in line with real needs, options and standards will be easier and faster within NATO, with the operational capacity of the military, especially our security, greater. Armed forces therefore need their peace and stable and long-term frameworks for transformation and development. Speaking of armed forces, I'm talking about the Slovenian army. Because in the constitution we still have armed forces. There is no cheaper and more reliable defence than collective defence. That is why I would like to conclude at the end with the thought that I mentioned at the outset. Some ask us to support them so that we can go to the referendum together and identify ourselves to a question for which they have no question or answer. And that's what those four of our colleagues who, like us, come here every month for their monthly salary and are paid to have a political position and to speak on behalf of the people who have chosen them. Of course, these people do not have a position or these Members of their position do not wish to confess. The political elite is simply to explain some things to people. Here's the reverse story. Elita likes to tell Members at the referendum what their position should be. And that's the wrong fucked-up world. Therefore, I hope that the Young Slovenia Party will sooner, not later, identify itself and tell you what it really thinks. And for these reasons, I cannot and will not support their proposal under any circumstances. Please join me in this form of non-support in as large a number as possible. This can also be a lesson for the reputation of the National Assembly. Once again, we have a group of Members, we have a Member of the Nationality, including a Member of the Nationality, and I will specifically say, Roberto Battelli, Italian nationality, was able to define and denounce the position of the minority. A party with four MPs doesn't know what to do, and they force us into a referendum - and that's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u144	Thank you very much, colleague Kacin. Four replicas have been reported, first by colleague Barovic, behind him by colleague Diaci, colleague Janš and colleague Vnučec. Let's go in order, first of all, Comrade Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u145	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll be very brief, just like I usually do in replicas. Dear colleague, Mr Jelko Kacin, there is likely to be a lot of water before I have as much political experience as you have. However, it is just that I am surprised that you misinterpret your fellow Members so superficially, not superficially, even misinterpreted. So I'm going to use your words often, look at the magnetogram. As far as the European Union is concerned, you have turned my words completely. I said he doesn't have a defence and security policy and he's supposed to take over. You said otherwise, but I have this right to correct you. As for the visit of the Greek delegation, I don't know what your standards are. I know that I was officially invited to a meeting with this delegation, representing the European Affairs Commission and also having a cup of coffee on the state account, so I was officially present. The data that my colleagues gave me is very useful to me for the experience of the State of the Republic of Slovenia. If we tell him, we'll know how to follow him. It doesn't say anywhere that I'm right that this information is important for this or that, but it is important for our country. As far as Euroscepticism or Euro-realism or conversion is concerned. Mr. Kacin, you know, if I just said that, I don't know, Danica Simšič likes it better than Silva Nigga, it doesn't mean that I want to live with one of these two if we understand each other. As for your last words, Mr Jelko Kacin, I would say this: in your words, I thought there was a little too much disrespect for the Slovenian people. It is true that you are an expert, one who has the right to advise and decide, but you do not have to say that people do not know anything. For me, people are much more important, at least when it comes to joining NATO than 89 votes, including my 90th right here in the National Assembly. For me. For you, it may be a different matter. So much for an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u146	Thank you very much. He's a friend of Diaci's. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. I would like to reiterate to my respectable colleague, Mr Kacin, whose knowledge of external matters I must admit, I have great respect and probably a lot of water will pass before I have as much experience as Mr Kacin has. However, one thing in which Mr Kacin has made a small mistake in my view is the cost of the referendum. I think the previous referendum costs just as much as the ex-post referendum. That's what this is about. I think that this decision about joining NATO is also important, but I will assess it, but not hold me to the floor, even more important than the referendums on both of the things you discussed earlier. I think this is a more strategic and long-term decision than those two referendums that I normally respect, but they were carried out. Next thing you know, I'd say it. The very cost of joining NATO, here you compare the costs of the referendum with the costs that we will, I think, can be compared to the costs of the referendum with the costs that we will actually have when we engage in this relationship and I think people should be informed. According to my estimates, we are talking about 0.5% of GDP, additional of course, which means about 25 billion, which means that this will have to come into this too expensive state budget, of which we all know what the current situation is. Of course, it is also necessary to tell people, and we will also be able to decide on the source from which these resources will come. Will It Be Essential? [[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] The budget has increased the defence budget, which means, on the other hand, that things are going to fall, which things are going to go down, which things are going to go down, health, social, money for roads, or that there is going to be an increase in the total budget level, which means new taxes. Let's say one percentage point of VAT extra, or maybe we can get David Copperfield as Finance Minister, we all know how he's capable. While I highly appreciate Mr Rope right now, he is a capable finance minister, but like David Copperfield he would probably be better off in this case. That's what this is about. As far as our position is concerned, it is essentially important to say that the debate on this has just begun, a concrete debate. It is true that there has already been a debate on this, but not on the basis of the new circumstances that have actually arisen since the year you were born, I think that all parliamentary parties have signed this joint statement of intent. I would specifically expect the government to prepare its analysis: the advantages, weaknesses, opportunities and risks of involvement in this connection. And to make that clear to people. Then we too will express our position clearly and loudly. We don't want to make the wrong decision. We weigh between safety, weigh between the costs of this safety.The criteria can be different. These may be different criteria from each individual, regardless of the customer. I do not believe that all colleagues from the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia have the same criteria for these two matters. I highly doubt that. And there's something else. We're also talking about, if I recall correctly, you were talking about military graves this morning. In fact, this has nothing to do with this issue. But it's indirect. What will be written on the graves of our Slovenian future professional soldiers, who will be sent back in the "trucks". Soldiers of the Slovenian army, soldiers of the NATO liaison. What? This is also one of the specific issues. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Comrade Janš, you have the floor behind you, Comrade Grandchild. Not when you get the word. Then yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u149	Although historical comparisons are very welcome when they illuminate a particular topic, the one used between this declaration of peace and the current developments regarding NATO may be exaggerated. I think it's an exaggeration. Finally, the Youth Party has not proposed anything that would endanger the security of this country. They have proposed a consultative referendum, God help me, I think they have weak arguments, but this is a perfectly legitimate proposal in parliamentary democracy, which the procedure allows, and as it turns out, is even welcome because this point is a reason for debate on arguments for and against. And this debate has not been enough so far. So there's no harm done by this. Comparing this proposal with the signing of a declaration of peace, which Mr Kacin named very precisely in 1991, requires the rapid unilateral disarmament of Slovenia, which has in fact been of its own content, is excessive. This declaration was signed at the time by four members of the Presidency of the Republic, who was the Commander-in-Chief. This Presidency was the commander-in-chief of the territorial defence. This declaration at the time made a huge mix-up in defence preparations, almost disrupting the adoption of the defence budget by means of a law on military duty. It caused a 20% rash among the bonds we called for military exercises. It was very serious, thank God that some realized that this was a mistake, but it was a significantly more serious action in the situation at the time. This declaration was also signed by the President of the current party, Mr Kacin. To compare this to this referendum, I don't think it's appropriate. Even when it comes to the attitude of the Young Party towards NATO, which they do not yet have, I must say here that it is a young party and I think they will come to terms sooner than liberal democracy has. It was not until 1993 that liberal democracy was defined for NATO, when it voted in favour of the resolution on the national security strategy, and even then half of the members of liberal democracy voted against it. We had some difficult discussions at the time in the government that this proposal had even come to light. Liberal democracy existed for at least five years. So let's give them some time to come to these conclusions through the debate. I think there is no harm in this House if there are those who also make arguments against it. They seem weak to me; to what Mr Diaci has now said, he could say many things, but more or less we have already heard them. However, if there are no arguments, there can be no debate. This may have been the main flaw so far, which is to a large extent the public opinion in Slovenia, when it comes to supporting the NATO membership, has suddenly begun to tend in a negative direction after this media campaign. Now I think we have turned this around and just an argumentated debate is helping to do so. So I appeal that when we cite these historical comparisons, we don't shoot guns at flies.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u150	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vnučec, a colleague of Battelli and then a colleague of Kacin, have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u151	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to thank my colleague Janša for hearing some encouragement for our proposal, and I would like to say something of my own, but I would like to reiterate that the Young Slovenia Party has tabled this proposal in accordance with business rules. Of course, we cannot agree to the various disqualifications we have witnessed to them in these days since the case has been filed, because in our Group of Members, each of the other parties' proposals we consider with patience and argument and would expect that from others. As far as the proposal is concerned, I think we're forgetting the point here. The point is, it's a referendum. What is this referendum? This is the highest form of decision-making, democratic, direct. It was introduced by this country by independence, by a new constitution and by the introduction of democracy. I don't think there can be a dilemma about what a referendum is, so we've proposed it. However, while we are already at cost, which have also been mentioned, we believe that the derogation from the purchase of a government aircraft amounts to as much as all three referendums combined. So much for a little while. Perhaps I would also mention that we have also heard in previous discussions that the proposal for a referendum is a blow to the face of the Member States of NATO, because they themselves have no intention of deciding on Slovenia's entry into their own referendums. This was denied by the Prime Minister himself, Dr Janez Drnovšek, when he mentioned yesterday that NATO and the United States do not take this as if the members of the Alliance should decide on this, but it is an internal matter. And since it's an inside thing, then it could be a referendum. I think the government has made a mistake here because our proposal could also use it, take it as its own and have enough time to convince the referendum of its views and thus ensure a successful wall of this referendum. Therefore, we feel that there are other reasons that we do not know what they are like.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I give my word, now there are no other applications for replicas to Comrade Battelli, behind him at last, Comrade Kacin. Then he'll get the word of his friend Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u153	Thank you very much, Mr. President. What would you say? It is indeed a matter of a consultative referendum on a matter which, in my deep conviction of this moment, cannot be the subject of a consultative referendum on such a very serious matter. We know what it's like to join a country in NATO. Negotiations have been held since the invitation. Negotiations lead to a certain result. Then it will be known how much it costs, what it actually means, which form of NATO is most appropriate to the Republic of Slovenia, etc. In my firm belief, it is wrong to ask people about such an important question now that these things cannot be known. Citizens can't know that. It is also appropriate that the government does not say this because all these issues will be subject to negotiation. It is also likely that, so to speak, populist or even demagogistic, it is now a matter of demanding certain things that are in the country's own negotiations against the accession to this association. That's why I replicate certain debaters. If we vote "yes", I will vote "no" if we vote "yes" to this referendum, the result will be negative. Absolutely, because it will be Article 5, because it will not know how much it costs, because it is what then plays perhaps more than Article 5, the role in the mentality of people, etc. It's unfair to them. That is why I object to this proposal. Once these elements are known, we will be able to decide whether or not to go to a referendum for the actual approach or the final signature of an international treaty for Slovenia's accession to NATO. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Comrade Kacin, now you have the floor, behind you comrade Horvath and Diaci with the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u155	Thank you, Mr President, I will object to my colleague Diacia, who said that the subsequent referendum costs just as much as the consultative referendum. Maybe, but it's not like that. The consultation referendum is not mandatory. The consultation referendum should take place by the end of the last week of October. That's what it says in the proposal they tabled in the procedure. The cost of this referendum is the cost of this year's budget. The cost of the referendum after the invitation is the budget for 2003. There's a small but important difference in that. The cost is inevitable and I do not think that there is a Member or a Member in this Chamber who would oppose the referendum on such an important decision as our involvement in NATO. But the question is, when should this referendum take place? My friend Diaca was talking about Nate's expenses. I wasn't talking about the cost of our involvement in NATO or our defence costs. This was discussed yesterday by the Minister of Defence, quite precisely, unfortunately he was not seen by the viewers because he was no longer on television and not specifically captured by the media. And there will still be a bunch of people who will claim that no one has ever said anything about costs. But so much for these costs, so I'm talking about the costs of the referendum because this is a proposal. The proposal of the Youth Party is legally corrected and is legitimate. This was stated by the Secretariat for Law and Legal Affairs and we have taken this opinion into account in the Committee on Foreign Policy, and we have nevertheless identified ourselves by one vote in favour of the call for a referendum and fourteen votes against. It is therefore inappropriate to point out that the proposal is corrected. Politically, it's not correct. It is not corrected for several reasons. First of all, because he's trying to tie him to the local elections. Now someone's gonna say they're trying to cut costs. But the outstanding strategic foreign policy issue is trying to link to lobbying and a popular performance by voters in local elections. I do not want to underestimate the importance of local elections of local communities, municipal and municipal councils and mayors, but these are two very different worlds and simply do not go together. If they go together, then someone manipulates and doesn't want to say it and doesn't want to define it. Since this is a referendum, it is important what we are actually doing with this referendum. We address our population and send a message to NATO member states. That's what I was talking about earlier in that comparison. No problem was the declaration we were talking about; the problem was how they understood it in Belgrade, and the problem was how they understood it. One speaker today said that 20% of the male population understood it in a specific way. This is what a message we have with such a positive decision to convey to the local population, to the electorate, as well as what we send to Brussels and to all our neighbours. It's the wrong message. And I'm gonna finish it and I'm gonna end it. My respected colleagues, members of the Young Slovenia Party, have still not convinced me that they are serious, they are still joking and have no attitude. And I'm confessing my position here. My colleague Janša is also fond of them and takes them to the dam - to make a little joke, because they will come to their senses in time. They are full-time, passive and active electoral rights, so they have been elected, they have every right to be defined in a timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u156	I propose that we respect the different views we have here and that we are equal in this right. My colleague Horvat wants a word, followed by his colleague Diaci, a colleague of Marsich and also a colleague of Školč. These are all replicas. He has a word to discuss later only with his colleague Yuri. I propose that some of the parallels mentioned several times in this debate be slowly removed from the robberies and that we focus on the topic we have. Please, my friend Horvath.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u157	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I am following this President's call to at least one topic, which is the economic aspects of the integration into NATO in order to avoid further discussion, I would like to refer to that part of my colleague Kacin's discussion when he spoke of the need for the Ministry of Economy to give its opinion and its assessment of the economic effects. In doing so, I would like to inform you that, on the basis of previous consultations with some of my colleagues today, I have written to the Minister of the Economy and also to other ministries, where I believe that we should have information and also analyses on what the positive effects of joining NATO will be expected to be, in order to obtain this information, and that we could then include this in one of the meetings of the Committee on the Economy as a special point. In doing so, I have been thinking for a while about focusing on this issue, because I myself have missed a number of analyses on this subject. At the same time, I would remind or draw some kind of parallel with the analyses that have been made, a lot of analysis has been done on integration into the European Union, on the economic consequences. Here, at least as far as I'm concerned, these analyses weren't enough. I also consulted the Minister of Defence and his State Secretary responsible for economic and financial affairs, and the joint assessment was that such a debate on the Committee on the Economy would be necessary, of course, on the basis of the available analyses and assessments of ministries. I also asked the Chamber of Commerce to give us that opinion. This could then be organised on the basis of arguments and analyses of a qualified debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Comrade Diaca, you have the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u159	First I'll replicate Mr. Kacin and then Mr. Battelli. You said it was actually our sort of populism move that was supposed to coincide with the local elections. It's not like that. Yesterday Mr Štemberger, on behalf of the parliamentary group, said the following: Nor is the timing of the local presidential elections or any other referendum appropriate, since decisions can be tied to each other in this case. That's what he said yesterday. Can be read in a magnetogram. Next thing. This proposal was tabled by us on 22 March 2002, which is two months ago. In the meantime, we have already stressed several times that it would be appropriate to address this point earlier. Who was stalling? We, I don't think so. And there's one more thing. The referendum should be held no later than the last week of October 2002. So before the November summit of NATO in Prague. This has nothing to do with the local elections. None. Next thing. But I'd like to replicate Mr Battelli in the work he was talking about negotiating. I don't know about you, but I think it's my personal opinion that this is not going to be a negotiation, it's going to be an adjustment. A proper expression would be adaptation. And that's what people in the field know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u160	Thank you very much. My friend Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u161	Thank you for your word. I would like to refer to my colleague Vnučec, who quoted or mentioned the text that I read on behalf of the parliamentary group, in which we mentioned that the possible implementation of the referendum at this time, in view of the attitude that parliamentarians and statesmen of other countries have in favour of our efforts to enter NATO and that, in fact, it has been many times, even yesterday, said by both presidents and ministers, and so on, there is nothing certain that all decisions still have to be taken, so that in all this effort that our friends, who would like to have us in addition, a referendum on what would fall before the invitation, would mean a blow to the face, figuratively, of course, to all of our supporters and friends. That's a fact. Whenever we go around, we talk about it, and everyone is amazed at how we are discussing a referendum ahead of a possible invitation that is not really safe. And that was meant. You quoted this text as being inconsistent with the Prime Minister. If you had listened to it to the end, you could also hear that we have also said that the decision on the referendum is absolutely an internal matter of the Republic of Slovenia. We'll make up our minds. But the effect would probably be this, we can make up our minds. We are sovereign about whether we decide sooner or later or not. However, the effect would probably be what we predicted in our explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u162	Last line, buddy Scholch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I was aroused by the various analogys with important things that have already happened. Events are calling, I'll say, to other types of comparisons. I would not answer because I share the opinion of the Group that if you were not invited, it would be a shame to lose energy and money, if there were not a lot of what we have put over the past ten years in similar discussions, which were mentioned here as something very important. I have been a signatory to the declaration of peace and I am not sorry today to have been a signatory to the declaration of peace. That someone later reclassified it as a declaration of unilateral disarmament is, I'll say, a problem to be attributed to himself. And it's not hard for me to admit today that this declaration, I'm going to say again, I'm sorry, has hit the time and events very quickly. I wouldn't speculate on other things if there were more peaceful people around us, because this is not the subject of this debate. But I would like to remind you that we also had a discussion on plebiscite. And that's where we talked about whether we trust people or not. And I would like to remind you that we -- and above all, I am the only one to have made immortal enemies and part of it lasts today, when I was practically one of the few and finally in that eighth circle, practically the only one who didn't agree that plebiscite could be valid, so it was positive if it wasn't for 50% plus one vote. There was a debate about trust in people. I'm not telling this because I want to tell someone that he didn't trust them, and so on, but because I think it's very embarrassing that we're pulling some analogies, and at the same time we're not pulling those, I'm going to say, our own weaknesses that we had in those moments. It's not hard for me to admit them, I've admitted them. However, I would like to say that the people who, I will say, are sponsoring the SMS, nevertheless, have something in mind that the vast majority of people - unlike the political parties, the leaders of our country - expect some kind of immediate involvement in this decision-making of NATO membership. We can then continue to share lessons here, but I think to a great extent also because, with the exception of this discussion that has now begun, there has practically never been a clear account before what it means. And what colleagues are defending right now is, if not another, a call after we have accurate information on what's going on with our security system. Last but not least, I will say, the former defence ministers stop attacking each other, that virtually everyone has spent the money from the defense tolar wrong and that only then will they save us. The fact that we have a bad atmosphere for NATO is connected in good work, I hope to say, even with the problematic management of these resources in the past. If we're talking about these analogys, let's put these things on the table. When I was in 1993 to look for our future in this, I was [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] - I apologize if I am allowed two more sentences - for a simple reason because I got tired of this work under the table, in secret and so on, just as I was a pensioner in the 1980s because I was against the privileged position of JNA in that country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u164	Thank you. Look, I have seven more applications. The hour will soon be 5 p.m., until 6 p.m. on schedule, they will complete the work and, if not completed, will transfer it on Tuesday and the next week. I allow myself to think and invite the National Assembly that it would be good if today this discussion, which began yesterday, decided not to postpone such a major decision until next week. I therefore invite everyone to take this invitation into account, as far as possible. My friend Aurelio Yuri now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u165	Thank you, President. In the interest of your warning, I myself have been giving up replicas from the very beginning, even though the temptations offered by my colleague Kacin's performance, as well as my colleague Battelli, were to replicate. But I am aware that if we continue at this pace, this preliminary referendum will only become a matter of amendment and address because it will become a subsequent referendum. Time is running out, it's getting smaller, of course, and we'll probably be in Nate by now when we decide whether or not to deal with it. That is why I am also giving up the replicas in advance, and I hope that we can reach a conclusion by six as far as we work. But one small replica, of course, to a fellow Kacin, who so sovereignly presented himself in telling, who is right, who is wrong, who is wrong, who is not learning, who is not learning, who was wrong and who is not, who is joking and who is not, only in one statement when he told someone that some are identifying ideologically to neighbors. He was probably also referring to my comments on the policy of the current Berlusconi government. In doing so, I would only reply to him that I was defining myself to the actions or to the work of our neighbours, and I would remind him here that the left- centred majority had adopted a protection law for the Slovenes in Italy, the right-centre majority did not allow it to be realized. There are differences here and, of course, it is necessary to define. Now for the content itself. See, I listened very attentively to all the introductory speakers yesterday, as television was, the audience was more numerous, the journalists were here, the country's representatives, the country's top representatives; I appreciated in particular the address and opinion given by the President of the Republic, and I also appreciate the opinion of the Prime Minister and Ministers, Comrade Kacin; I know what the mood and what my colleagues think about this initiative are about. Therefore, unlike my colleagues and colleagues in the Group of Members, of course, I will give my support and I will vote in favour of this initiative. And let me explain in more detail why. First of all, why a referendum is even needed, because we heard yesterday and we also heard the thesis today that relativizes the importance of the referendum: czech, in Nat do not require us to identify with the referendum, if necessary, we will call a-a possible referendum and so on. I say that a referendum is necessary for two things. This is an important status change in the international situation of the country, and the second reason is that, according to the mood of the public, which is also more often measured monthly, the latter decision does not wish to leave to the government or to the national assembly alone. The respondents reply that when the referendum is announced, they will participate in more than 70% of the share, which testifies, of course, to the desire and interest to make a direct decision on it. And why is the consultative referendum more appropriate for me? Because it is finally time to find out, both advocates and opponents of Slovenia's NATO membership, what citizens and citizens think about this or more than ten years ago, a strategic priority has been declared, the foreign policy priority of the country, which is advocated by most parliamentary parties, also enjoys public support. It doesn't matter to me how much support this is. The second reason is because speculation, speculation and controversy already weigh heavily on the other fields of interest, political attention and public attention. Because the public must define itself as much as possible and conditionally as possible, because we should decide whether Slovenia should insist on its candidacy, so we have something to decide. Slovenia has run for office in NATO. And don't make any decisions about an invitation coming from Prague. Because this will also make it clear at the top of this military political relationship whether we really want to go to NATO or not. So they ask us why such low support, why such public opinion. Because the possible rejection of this candidacy before the Prague Summit will be less painful and shocking for the country's needs and interests than they would have been once they have been invited into the organisation and have already joined the ratification of the membership treaty. I don't think there's gonna be much negotiation. We will simply adopt a statute here, of course, and this is not comparable to the negotiations for the European Union. There is another reason for this, because if the referendum were already over - regardless of the outcome that I hope we will all be able to accept - we could then go to the presidential and national and local elections without that burden. Because this burden, of course, will accompany us and will follow us in the course of these electoral campaigns. I allow myself to assess, of course, that there is a fear of this referendum and that there are excuses or arguments if not all the conditions are given; all the formal legal conditions are given, the Secretariat has found that the initiative has been properly tabled and the issue is now very clear and correct. I think it's more of an excuse than the second one. I wonder what we're going to say tomorrow when the referendum is inevitable, if, by chance, the public's mood is even less favourable than it is today. And, of course, we would have taken a strong risk for the failure of this referendum. So let's not stand there and close our eyes, that's the facts. See, at the end of this referendum assessment, perhaps as a reminder that rejecting the call for an advisory referendum will help to reduce the popularity of our NATO membership. As this was also, of course, and the Committee on Foreign Policy has also adopted some conclusions which are to be adopted today and also our signal of favor to the National Assembly on the admission to NATO, let me say, of course, without the indignation of my colleague and colleague that my vote will not be here, as it was not in the Committee. I have been a proponent of Slovenia's membership in NATO, but it has happened a lot lately, of course, which has deterred me from this belief. But I'm not getting any younger, I'm getting older, so I'm making a very serious confession. On 11 September, the Bush administration policy took place, which is most influential in determining the role of the North Atlantic Union and also the role of Slovenia when it becomes a member of this association. It is, in my opinion, a policy that is not the most exemplary or productive in regulating international relations and ensuring world peace and stability. If we become members of NATO, of course we will be responsible for this policy. There have been concerns, arguments, concerns about a particular intellectual sphere in Slovenia about the appropriateness of our uncritical and unconditional hurry in NATO, and there has been a poor, unconvincing, often exaggerated and arrogant response of the government, in particular the Foreign Minister. Nothing discreet happened, of course, American pressure on our economy and evidence that our government was bowing down to them at the price of their entry into NATO. It has happened, with the amendment of the maritime code and earlier with the withdrawal of Slovenia from the multilateral initiative for a world without nuclear weapons, that we also adhere to military nuclear policy. It happened almost perfect, allow me this expression, the Americanisation of our foreign policy on the Middle East issue and on the issue of climate recovery. There has been evidence of European non-members of this relationship, who live very safely and richly only as members of the European Union, and of the high costs of NATO membership, at the same time entering the EU at a time when public finances do not flourish most and are already forcing us into a policy of belt tightening. History, allow me also this thought, the thesis of - as I call it - conditional democracy, which says that if you are a certain nationality, you must not object to entering NATO, or that if you do not have an opinion on this, you must not request a referendum, or that if you sign a referendum, you can only when money is provided. There was a marketing event to enter NATO, which is a school case of how marketing is not done. And the thesis is that if we want to live a secure and rich future in NATO, which assumes that the future should be worse than the present. This projection of our future is difficult to come by because it would mean that we will not be doing much to make the future better than the present. And it's not least that we don't have a choice, it's been heard several times, asking what we're going to say and what we're going to do if he accidentally says a referendum: no, or even if we don't get invited into NATO. Of course, when we attach ourselves to this thesis that there is no other choice, we do not remain like collective crying and despair. Well, in short, a lot has happened, which tells me personally that it's better, with the candidacy to wait, to freeze it. Therefore, my vote on the proposed conclusions of the Foreign Policy Committee will not be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u166	Thank you very much. It's a replica of a fellow Squire. Please have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, President. I'd like to replicate my colleague Aurelia Yuri. Aurelio Juri had a very good performance and it is right that in the National Assembly there are such arguments as he said. It's a shame he didn't say it yesterday in a direct transmission. It was again yesterday afternoon, "Unisono." Comrade Battelli has raised some questions that legitimately exist among Slovenian people. And this dialogue on these issues is supposed to take place here. I'll take my turn very briefly. Will the rejection of the proposal for a consultative referendum further exacerbate the public debate? Let's do everything we can to make sure this doesn't happen. Our rejection means a public commitment to open a public debate in the most democratic way and to answer patiently all the questions that have been raised here. Second, a legal question. Slovenia has run, if I am not mistaken, with a government decision. However, the previous consultation referendum did not touch on the Government's conclusion. Then the question is wrongly written. However, the government has its own decision, the basis for it in the decisions of the National Assembly, the conclusions, the foreign policy strategy and so on. The government had the mandate of the National Assembly to apply for entry by decision. If we want to oppose this decision, then the question is written wrongly, that is my opinion. Thirdly, does the Slovenian public know exactly the procedures when we will, if we are and hope to be invited, after Prague - what will happen, what this negotiation looks like. Yesterday, the Defence Minister said: "The direct financial contribution to NATO's joint budget is only a matter of negotiation and a possible contract, and it will be determined on the basis of economic growth, economic situation and the level of our defence budget." And that's true what Comrade Kacin said yesterday, Dr. Grizold gave a very detailed answer on the financial aspects of joining NATO. We heard his performance here. The media didn't get him. And now some of your concerns on the basis of which you say that you changed your previous position, which was positive. 11 September, this is a subjective assessment matter, but most likely the reason that has happened - terrorism and so on - if we can properly accept it: an argument to find reasons for, not against. The second argument is the current US authorities in the image of the current President. The Taargument can't hold. The American people have elected a president who will have a four-year or eight-year term. The membership of NATO is a decision that will last much, much longer. Here I would like to draw attention to the two sentences that Dr. Rupel said yesterday, very important arguments for NATO: "I think that Slovenia, as a member of NATO, would have a greater impact on the debates on the contentious issues of World War II and on matters left over from the Yugoslav crisis." A very strong argument. And second argument: "The members of NATO with Russia represent, if I may say so, a barrier before the revision of the European regime after 1945." These are two extremely strong arguments to convince the Slovenian population to support the entry into NATO. You are referring to the wrong marketing, you are also referring to the arrogance of the authorities and so on, this debate should be a challenge, that arrogance is no longer an issue, that it is a respectful response to people's concerns. And I believe that this debate makes sense, and I hope that colleagues in the Youth Party will not receive those sharp words that they have heard before. The attack or humiliation of the Young People’s Party will, of course, be misunderstood in the public. If someone, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Law and the Constitution were to file a case, then I would not have attacked him, his position would have been respected and would have entered into this dialogue with arguments, and this debate is this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u168	Thank you very much. Once again, I have explained, once again, we can all have the same right to our position and, even if it is different, we must treat others with respect. My colleague Marshič now has the floor, this will be the final replica, then he has the floor to discuss colleague Jakič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u169	Thank you for your word, President. Dear colleague Podobnik, it is not really a replica, it is a reaction to what you have said and I fully agree with it. It has already happened twice that we had a debate in the National Assembly, where time devoted to direct transmission was limited. And every time it aroused the public's reaction in this direction that it all seemed "unisono" as you said, and that it indicated the arrogance of the authorities and those who, of course, supported the entry into NATO. I would never, of course, hope to influence the editorial policy of national television, but, given that it has been repeatedly said that this is crucial for Slovenia, for the future foreign policy of Slovenia and so on, that this is a key external policy project, but I think that more feelings in this direction could and would be possible, and with this - I mean here, of course, on national television - and that this would also avoid all those issues which, in my opinion, have significantly worsened also the public's views and opinions on this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u170	Colleague Roman Jakič now has the floor to discuss, to prepare his colleague Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u171	Thank you, Madam President, honourable colleagues, of course much has been said, so I will not repeat and quote, of course, what the Prime Minister said yesterday, as well as the President of the State, the Foreign and Defence Minister. I am in favour of involving the Republic of Slovenia in NATO, because I am convinced that NATO is an organisation that has already done much good for this country. If I am not an economist, but I am walking around the countries of the former Yugoslavia, which is in fact our first, which is our largest export partner, then it is clear that NATO has protected our interest in the Balkans. The last example is Macedonia, where Slovenia is the largest foreign investor. Of course, I'm for NATO also because it bothers me that our companies don't get jobs because NATO is not a Member State. My colleagues would like to remind me of one very short, very small article in one of the daily newspapers, which recently wrote that one of the producers of non-alcoholic Slovenian drinks did not get a big job in Kosovo when she ran, of course, for the supply of water to the United Nations troops, because the state was not a member of NATO, and this deal was received by Italy. I also agree that I am in favour of the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia in NATO because, nevertheless, I also agree here with my distinguished colleague, Ferri Horvat, that the State of Slovenia has not done much in the field of awareness of numbers, economic figures. But I certainly know that the Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland have increased their exports after their adoption and have received more foreign investments because these three Member States have become NATO. Why am I a proponent of inclusion? Because I don't agree with those who make an equation between NATO and the United States of America. And, I think that this is the main apple of the conflict or, for example, the fall of support for NATO in the Republic of Slovenia. I, not only here, but also in all the international forums where I participate, condemn the policies of the United States of America when I speak of the Kyoto Agreement and its non-dpis, the non-accession to the Kyoto Agreement, because the United States of America opposes the signing of the Rome Statute and the confirmation of the International Criminal Court. I object or am sad that the United States of America does not respect the Geneva Convention on the Treatment of Prisoners of War at the base of Cuba. I condemn thinking about the attack on Iraq and some other countries. I do not agree with the opening of a new debate on specific or nuclear weapons, nuclear re-arms and the use of nuclear weapons against those countries. And I am very concerned - even as a tourist, if you want, in the United States of America - about limiting and reducing the rights and freedoms of the United States of America under, of course, the cover of the fight against terrorism. But I still don't make the equation between that and the NATO membership. For, my colleagues, the representatives of the Member States of NATO, as I condemn, protest and the governments of these countries condemn and protest when one of the Member States does something that is not in line with some agreed standards. But I think there will be a discussion about why inclusion and why not, also because we have not started serious discussions in the Republic of Slovenia. But there's something else on the agenda today. Today's agenda is in fact a legitimate proposal from the Youth Party, which is talking about whether to support their initiative to call for an advisory referendum on the inclusion of the Republic of Slovenia, ahead of the invitation. Contrary to the President of the State, it is also clear to me without the suggestion of Drnovsk that I must vote against the SMS proposal in order to hold a referendum before the invitation. And I must say that yesterday - and I was looking in this document - when the President of the State appeared, I was missing in his firm conviction that Slovenia must become part of a common defence policy and that, in order to enter NATO, this part of the definition, whether he personally believes that this referendum is necessary or not before the invitation. Why am I against the invitation? A lot is said, but I really don't know what I would vote for in a referendum like this. Because there is no basis for these negotiations and we really do not know whether our membership will be too expensive. Here colleague Podobnik read the formula for calculation, which is the basic formula for calculating the costs or how much Slovenia participates, but still the matter of some negotiations and negotiations. And of course, we do not know what NATO will require of us in the area of the development of a common defence and security policy. Let me just remind you or draw a parallel, colleagues and colleagues, and, of course, my colleagues from the Youth Party, that we did not go to talk about the European Union before they even invited us to the negotiations. We are waiting, listening, directing and confirming the negotiating chapters of the Minister, Dr. Potočnik, his team, the Foreign Ministry, the government. And, of course, at the end of the day, I hope that we will draw a line soon, add up the pluses and minuses, and then go to the referendum. When we know all the bargaining points, when we actually know they're pluses as minuses. Therefore, it could also be good to do so in the case of NATO membership. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Comrade Peca, now you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u173	Respectable present. Basically, I must say that I think that we are all in breach of the rules of procedure together, even if we look at our screens, the proposal or the address of the point currently being addressed, which has been drawing since yesterday, is a referendum on NATO inclusion and not a general debate on NATO. But if the great men of the National Assembly - you who run the coalition and the government - have thus decided to take advantage and all at once in this National Assembly have also done so, you have destroyed the proposal of the Young People's Party for qualified decision-making, which you have also achieved by drawing only the procedure for a long time. And if we take this into account and then take into account that all the country's top representatives were in this quorum yesterday: Mr President Kučan, Mr Prime Minister, Mr Drnovšek, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Rupel, Minister for Defence, Mr Grizold, then we can ask ourselves why. If we've agreed as a theory that we're going to drop the procedure because it's right to talk to you, we're discussing Nate's content, then why aren't these gentlemen here today? They are not interested in arguments, are they not interested in the position of individual Members? We have just seen that, even in individual parliamentary groups, whose positions were presented yesterday, thank God, there are exceptions to the fact that opinions are different. What did those four gentlemen come here to do yesterday? Posing, that's all! And here the blame flies upon you, Mr. Pahor, you are supposed to be the first of the same. And if the government of the Republic of Slovenia, with Mr Kučan at the head, pretends to know the arguments, to hear the views of different groups, different individuals, then we should be so fair to the National Assembly that we should not just use it for their populist performances in front of TV cameras. Today we should ensure our presence here, today, when the debate is different than it was yesterday. Yesterday, mostly, with the exception of the Victory, representatives of the parliamentary groups stood for a pay phone with a sheet of paper and read those few words. This could also be done in writing, the Prime Minister and the President of the State would get these views, everyone would get a good picture in the lobby of the National Assembly and the matter would be resolved. But I do not believe that this criticism depends on anyone, but it was intended for you, Mr Pahor, that you should ensure today's participation, especially given that you are under argument, why we are moving from the agenda to the agenda of the Youth Party, and we have said that because Mr Kučan and Mr President Drnovšek will be there. Now the real picture has turned out. The Slovenian government is bluffing, nothing else. But so much for an introduction. Allow me two, three words about Nate. I believe that NATO is in the first phase of a military organization. But then, under the United States of America's tactics, and anyway, whether some of you agree to it or not, that's true; it's only one of the organizations that commands the United States of America. Others around the world, geographically speaking, are such organizations, with only a different name. I'll take my turn. The first, so-called "Rio Pact", takes over Latin America and - guess who - the United States of America. Next; the "Brussels Pact", takes France, Great Britain, Benelux and - guess who - the United States of America. Next, then the pact, where we are today. You probably won't find it hard to guess who's here, that these are the United States again. Then "Anzus", in other words, "the Pacific Pact", takes over Australia, New Zealand and some other countries around it in a related geographical area and guess again who's in charge here. America. Then it's "Seato," otherwise called a pact from Manila. Australia, Philippines, New Zealand, Thailand - and guess who's in charge here again: the United States of America. And then there's "Cento, Baghdad Pact": Iraq, Iran, Turkey and - guess who's in charge here too - the United States of America. Whoever's in this room in front of the TV cameras or in front of us is bluffing that NATO isn't an American military organization, he's lying. Then he is one of the elements, soianped all over the world, with a view to providing security. But what safety, gentlemen. Then, besides military content, of course, it also has economic meaning: to direct what kind of weapons, where to sell, and how much. And just to think, what did the EEC come from - from what community? A Community that wanted to control the production of steel for weapons. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not talking about small industry. We're talking about the billion-dollar industry, whether it's euros or US dollars, however you like it. The role of America was talked about by many before me, some of you denied it, some of you bluffed, but I believe that each of you knows what time it is. If we are already in economic influence, where the government representatives are, those who are supposed to know about this, who, of course, did not want to know about it and represented only the positive properties of Nate, with the leaflets given to households, and not one of Nate's bad qualities, then it should be said that it is too little, if we say: Then it will also have economic effects. Perhaps even you are aware that the economic effects may be positive or negative. And I believe that an organisation like NATO, which will undoubtedly have economic effects, will be a sensitive economy for a small economy - which everyone is forgetting that Slovenia - has had negative effects. We will be forced, then not voluntarily - what we are doing now - to take over their so-called wastes from the area that NATO is dealing with. With what? It's probably not hard to figure it out. But I do not believe in the words spoken by the so-called "leaders" of the country, that then it will affect culture. It's hard for me to imagine that then he's going to have an impact on literature. Maybe some soldier will write home on that side of the ocean, girls, women - to anyone else, or I don't believe. You spoke in general: Then it will have an impact on culture, then it will have an impact on agriculture and all this positive. Are you even listening? Just the good side of Nate! There is no area in this country in which NATO will not have a positive effect. And then you wonder why people don't believe in NATO. Gentlemen, if we were to appear more on television, NATO support would no longer be among the citizens. So much saltiness and so much primitive, for the hair-attracted debates as it was at this and yesterday's session - I think it represents one of the surpluses. And now about the costs, in other words, of Mr. Kacin's morale. I didn't make a deliberate call when he talked about the cost of 500 million, how much this country will cost, the moment the finance minister shows up with a balance and when we all have to "spar". Gentlemen, here's the question of your morality. The plane of the Slovenian government - and this is not the first plane, the Slovenian government already has a plane - costs about 28 referendums. And if we look at that there have not been 28 referendums in our history, Slovenian history, and given that the referendum represents the most democratic form of decision-making, the form that has become is indeed more frequent this year. But because of the dictatorship of this government, because of inelasticity, because you are not prepared to listen to the burden and desire - I will not say other political parties, because it is quite understandable. But: because you are not prepared to listen to the aspirations and desires of people - that is why there are requirements for a referendum! And whoever claims at this point about the 500 million related to the referendum and then says in a very primitive way that there is no money for it; gentlemen and ladies, let the referendum be before or after the so-called invitation: it will always stand, it will always have the same price. And for those of you who don't know, budget reservations, these are the funds that will drain the funds. In the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, we also looked at the issue of referendum and costs, of course, through other points of view, because several referendums are connected. The Ministry of Finance will simply allocate from the mandatory reserve to put funds there. But do not use this argument, and those people who support the purchase of an airplane - which we do not need: for the first time, this country has a plane for the summers and aviation adventures of the Prime Minister and where this plane would represent more than 28 referendums - that if we look at the movement of referendum initiatives and the implementation of the referendum, it is sufficient for Slovenia for the next 20 years to take advantage of this quota of 28 referendums. If we defend this position, then the referendum will never be. Then we also understand why the arrogant attitude of the government and of some government representatives or Members today. Since you are in my area, around the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, with the exception of some bright exceptions, all the fanatical fans of NATO - suddenly everybody gets to know each other - then Mr President, can I ask you to calm down and learn the characters of the Member of Liberal Democracy? [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u174	May I have peace in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u175	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u176	And once again, this applies to all of us. Let's not qualify our colleagues and colleagues' positions. Let's talk about it. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u177	Nate's fans, I'm gonna drop the word "fanatic." You are talking about the sense or nonsense of holding a referendum before the invitation. Yeah, who are we bluffing here? Slovenia has long been a Slovenian government, I am reforming, and the ruling coalition has long been invited to an invitation. Slovenia has the costs of approaching NATO from day to day. We are in this process: amending the legislation that Mr Aurelio Juri has been talking about, changing the Slovenian army, into a process that costs us something. And it is right that we find out as soon as possible the will of the citizens to see whether we should stop the cost process or move on. Well, if not otherwise, I think it would make sense to implement or today support the proposal of the Youth Party, because of the fact that the policy, whether in this national assembly or in general policy in the country, will show that sensitivity and once for a change show why the policy should even be - that there should be representatives of the people here, not representatives of individual interests, which is increasingly happening. At the same time, I think it is a very important question - and I will conclude slowly. We all forget that the basic question in relation to the NATO military organisation, to which we should answer ourselves, not only us, but all citizens, and the possibility of answering them directly with the referendum, is: are we Slovenians willing to fight - God forbid, even die, but the fact is that in war people die - for the interests of the United States. This is a question that we should answer. Today and here, let us give people the opportunity to answer that question, whether they are ready and only for American interests. Personally, I do not believe that, despite your special propaganda, they are performing on Radiotelevision Slovenia, in the daily newspaper in general. That's a question we all forget. If I finally borrow the piece that Mr Bogdan Barovic has already mentioned and reminds me of - quote - "he sacks with corpses" which will return to Slovenia - before that we must not close our eyes, the war demands our sacrifice. Slovenians will be sent with such a government policy as, unfortunately, no one in the world knows us, to a country where Slovenia - who has heard of it? These bags, ladies and gentlemen, you'll have to take on your conscience. If you are willing to do this, each one of you, when you reject the proposal of the Young Party today, then your decision will be as it is, then you will continue to drag us into NATO. The proposal to implement the previous referendum proposed by the Party of Young Slovenia will, like other Slovenian National Party Members, support and give people the opportunity to decide on this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u178	My friend Jakich, the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u179	President, a very short replica. In fact, I would not like it to be said in this Chamber that anyone who thinks otherwise than the representative of the Slovenian National Party is a liar. The one who thinks otherwise as a representative of the Slovenian National Party is a different opinion and opinion. I don't even compare Mr Pečet with a liar when he talks about the things that I think - they don't seem right and, of course, I think they are - that there are certain policies at work. In this case, the demagogues. One such case of demagogy is, of course, how we must take it on our shoulders or we will have to take it if we choose to do so, including the victims, the potential victims of soldiers who are supposed to go into peacekeeping operations. Even now, the Republic of Slovenia is sending its soldiers, who are professionals and who choose to do this operation voluntarily. As is decided, of course, by other NATO soldiers who came to the areas and to the area we are talking about today; the area we want to stabilise is the Balkans, where they were, of course, exposed to the possibility of dying.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u180	Thank you very much. We have two more debates. So I take this opportunity to invite all my colleagues and colleagues to the hall, because we are about to vote. First, I give my word to my colleague Petan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u181	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear government representatives, colleagues and colleagues. I'll try to shorten this debate, but I'd like to point out some points of resistance. The fact is that the National Assembly first identified itself until the security links in the resolution of 1993. Also, in 1996 the Slovenian Parliament, in its views and conclusions to NATO, was seriously identified for security connections. The political parties represented in Parliament also clearly defined themselves in 1997 to the Alliance by a joint statement of parliamentary parties in support of Slovenia's integration into NATO as a priority. This document was signed by all the parties from which one later withdrew. In 1997 the National Assembly upgraded these serious intentions of joining the Alliance. In 1998, Slovenia adopted a national strategy for joining NATO. Our serious intention of joining NATO as a priority has been defined by the State in many documents. I wouldn't mention them all. I'd like to mention maybe the one I think is the most important, that's the membership action plan. This year we are already implementing a third such annual plan, which was adopted in 1999. These action plans have also been evaluated by the Allied authorities and have given us their own assessment and advice. Slovenia has taken construction and transformation seriously and would stress the reduction of its armed forces, taking into account and in particular due to the new situation. Here I mean both the new international situation and the new situation at home in Slovenia. In doing so, I would like to put first the fact that each country is building its own armed forces for its own sake, for its own sake, for its own safety and for the achievement of the highest possible degree of national security. But our integration into NATO can only affect this process, and I am thinking about the construction of our own armed forces, in the sense that all of what we have to do for ourselves will be done perhaps a little earlier, and I hope that it will also be better. On 16 January of this year, Slovenian policy also made clear its position towards integration into NATO at the public hearing of Slovenia before the NATO summit in Prague. In this process of ours, and in this process of integration into NATO, there is something interesting. For the first time, Slovenia has identified its approach to NATO seriously and supported by administrative acts in 1996. The government was seriously expecting an invitation to join NATO in Madrid. However, concentrated attacks on NATO and inappropriate comparisons began only in the second half of last year. I do not intend to go into the details and analyses of this process and this process, but it is very symbolic and can also readable, to some extent - I say to some extent, but of course my opinion is - I also include the request for a referendum on entry into the Alliance before an official invitation which can only happen in Prague. I personally do not believe that a referendum is necessary, not now or then, but I will respect all legitimate requirements for the referendum and this is one of them. In doing so, I will have in mind the reality of the demands. The subject matter of the requirement must be realistic and attainable. This objective, subject to the request for a referendum, is NATO membership, but at this point, unfortunately, non-existent, could be said to be virtual, there is only a very high probability that we will get an invitation; but even four years ago, before Madrid, it was said almost five years ago, there was a high probability, and only because of this high probability we have not yet received an invitation. At this point, we can only say that enlargement will be, but who will be invited, and how many countries will be invited, but we do not know at this point. This means that people would be asked about something at the referendum, which is not a fact at the moment, and it is not entirely up to us. We will be invited by others, we will be able to influence only by being prepared according to their standards. But we have to be ready for ourselves, not for them. In doing so, we should ask our people about something that is entirely, almost entirely, depending on others. For me, such an approach in such situations is totally unnecessary, I will say, inappropriate. Nor would such a referendum increase their credibility. The other way around, especially since nobody else did it. Entering NATO means upgrading, enhancing our security. The point is, when no one's threatening us right now, they can't hold on. Security cannot be addressed, but above all we must not decide on the basis of the current situation, security is planned for years to come. Because if that were not the case, the Member States of NATO would have entered and stepped out of this organisation because of the current situation, and no one has done so yet. Even the opposite! In the present time, after the breakup of the "bipolar" political and military division of the world, the situation is such that a large number of countries want to enter NATO. In view of the current situation, however, we might expect even the opposite. We can ask ourselves why. Apparently, other countries are building their security for the future in the long run. So we'd just be deciding on some current situation. That would probably be a waste of time, and not least: we're deciding on nato. There are 19 countries in NATO at this time, and the United States is one of these countries. We don't decide to become, I don't know, 51 federal states. So the argument that we don't like American politics that we don't like one of the American politicians is a little weird and maybe a little funny. Then there are 53 years, during which many presidents of the Member States have been replaced, many secretaries-generals have been replaced, but NATO still exists. It is said that the current situation cannot be an argument. However, we must admit that in Slovenia our generation has the opportunity, has the opportunity, has the honour to take the right, and in particular the responsibility to decide on our safety for the next generations. This was not given before us to the generations of that time. The question is also when will such an opportunity be again for generations to be able to decide for their own security for the future. The opportunity to increase our security to join NATO must be accepted. We must use such procedures to be credible. In my opinion, this would not be the case with the referendum. The opportunity we have to use it to our advantage. Our generation does not have this right to waste this opportunity, it is to increase our level of security and to join NATO. Given that I want to make a responsible decision, on the basis of realistic options, I cannot support the initiative for the previous referendum, this is said to be a referendum for the decision to enter NATO before our invitation to Prague. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The last debater is colleague Bernik. Once again, I invite all my colleagues and colleagues to the hall, because we are going to vote. Please, Comrade Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u183	Dear Mr President, Secretary of State, Secretary of State and guest from the Foreign Ministry, distinguished colleague and colleague. I'm going to try to be brief, we've heard a lot of high-pitched words and something, I'd say, mega-Romanian statements and so on. I think that NATO is needed for us, it is not a religious or any secular relationship, but it is a realistic one based on democratic values. I will not support the amendment or the proposal tabled by the Youth Party for one simple reason: they are young, they are energetic, but it bothers me that if they cannot figure out what NATO is and where they are standing and want to find out from people, it is a little paradoxical. Since they have energy, we could take a deep look into this matter and present ourselves what is NATO, what is not NATO, and why not NATO. However, this is not the case, and it seems to me that this is not the right proposal. However, their initiative should also raise some concerns for the government, because this is primarily about informing our citizens and informing them. In fact, this information is somewhat scattered or, as the English would say, "disjointed", and although this Natopis, which is supposed to go to about 700 houses or households, is still well written, I must warn the government that this should happen more often in a slightly simpler form, and also make sure that these pamphlets come to households. I didn't get it personally, my sister didn't get it, the people in the bishop's area didn't get it, a lot of people didn't get it in Ljubljana, and so on. This is said to have gone wrong somewhere; I recommend you find out. It also bothers me that the government does not have an inter-resort office or centre to coordinate all these government initiatives and government actions, because it seems necessary to establish a private relationship about NATO to implement what the government is not doing. That's not the way to do it. So it seems to me that the government needs to double its efforts and tell us what's right and what's wrong. If we come to NATO or if we don't come to NATO, it won't depend on anyone but ourselves. There are some conditions that the Slovenian state must meet, but we have never heard of this before, whether we are weak or not weak, but from some visits from the NATO Centre in Brussels it has been heard or at least understood that we are not trying enough. What is it and where is it, I don't know. Then I would also say that, of course, our democracy, as it is, sometimes excites beyond a few wonders. And, of course, if the country is not democratic, we in NATO - if others find out and some find out, we will not come. I hope we can fix this and get to NATO. I also wonder if our government has any problem with the exchange of information. As you know, Romania - which is interesting, that some have supported the Romanians for NATO already in Madrid - has now come to the fore of questions about having too many "Securitate" agents in the government. It would be interesting to know whether we already have principles in mind. And if there is, what we're going to do, because there's no state secret that we've had countless of these agents, and so on and so forth, and that they've been appearing somewhere else in high office. Well, Mr. Kacin has brought discussion to the graves and the need for the adoption of the graves law. I understand that such an agreement, even as it is and which we oppose, would of course help the government. Personally, I don't think this trick is gonna make this paper because it's a substance, not a form. I don't know what people can think outside if after ten years and the past forty years, after ten years, democracy couldn't handle this human issue. This is where I end up. But I do have another thought for Mr. Kacin. I would like to remind him that NATO was not created for anything other than then, for anti-communist defence, which was a global danger. Today, this is no longer the case when we are talking about Poland, the Czech Republic and Hungary, transition countries. They all condemned communism. Slovenia is the only country in transition that is assuring this to join NATO. That is to say, a little consideration should be given to this matter and to discuss that we are all in the same direction. Thank you very much, and I would say that that megalomy, how everyone will fly in small Slovenia, is completely unnecessary, is ridiculous, is what you would say, is hill. That's it. Let's not see over our own hills. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u184	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. Ladies and gentlemen, since no one wants to discuss this further, I am concluding this debate now. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: On the basis of Article 26 of the Law on Referendum and on Human Initiative and Article 230 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the State Assembly adopted the following decision at its 16th meeting, on 23 May: "A consultative referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO shall be held. Proposal for a regulation on the call for an advisory referendum on the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the relationship Then prepare the Committee on Foreign Policy and send it to the National Assembly for consideration and acceptance". That's the conclusion. I suggest we vote on him. This motion for a decision shall be put to the vote. Please. Just a minute. [[Can I get my card out there again? I don't know why.]] We're voting. Please. Whoever supports such a proposal should vote. 64 colleagues and colleagues are present. Nine colleagues and colleagues voted in favour, 53 against. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 53.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Since the hour is not yet 18, I would like to invite the National Assembly to make another brief point, and this is a proposal for a decision on the recognition of the independence of East Timor. Please. It's an additional decision. Please, just a moment. I'm sorry. We have three additional conclusions and we will decide individually that there will be no misunderstandings. I'm asking for peace. We will first decide on the following: "The National Assembly shall be informed by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia of the involvement of the Republic of Slovenia in the NATO Union." I'm putting the motion to a vote. 53 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the first proposal for a decision has been adopted. The second one reads as follows: "The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to accelerate activities related to the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into NATO, with particular attention to relevant and reasoned public information." We are voting on the proposal for a decision. 55 present, 48 for, 5 versus. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against the 5.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. And finally: "The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to take decisions on the tasks and activities of the State authorities for the integration of the Republic of Slovenia into the NATO Union and the National Assembly on them." We are voting on the decision. 52 present, 46 for, 5 versus. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that this decision has also been adopted. In fact, I am concluding this item on the agenda. I invite the National Assembly to decide on the 1st A-point, agenda, this is a proposal for a decision on the recognition of the independence of the Eastern Timor. This proposal was submitted to the State Assembly by the Government. Does the government want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The Foreign Policy Committee has considered and adopted this proposal. Does the president want a word? [[He does.]] Please, buddy Kacin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u185	Dear colleagues and colleagues! East Timor is the first emerging country in this millennium. And if we remember how we felt when we declared our country and waited and expected international recognitions, this is certainly a solemn event for this country. I would therefore ask you to accompany the outcome after the vote with applause, however, because it is appropriate to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-05-23-SDZ3-Redna-16.ana.u186	Thank you very much to the chairman of the committee. Do qualified discussers want a word? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the recognition of East Timor's independence. I'm putting the motion to a vote. We're voting. 62 present, 62 for. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia unanimously adopted a decision on the recognition of the independence of East Timor. I wish the inhabitants all the best! This also concludes this agenda item and interrupts today's session. We will continue to work on Tuesday, and the Internal Policy Committee will meet tomorrow, so that it can take place, at least between those agenda items, so that the State Assembly can decide on them next week. Thank you very much.
