ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u1	Dear Members and Members, ladies and gentlemen, a good day! First of all, I apologize for the adjournment of the 26th extraordinary meeting, which came to light from the meeting of the Commission on Mandate and Immunity. I begin the 26th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia convened pursuant to the second paragraph of Article 58 and the second paragraph of Article 60 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Some of our colleagues will be away today. This is colleague Kangler, colleague of the Possonec, colleague Petan, mag. Vizjak, colleagues Zamernik, Janša, Dr Bernik, colleague Ana Marija Tisovic, colleague Kacin, Partljič, colleague Irma Krebs and colleague Milan Kopushar. I also invited representatives of the Government and representatives of the Council of State to the meeting. When he joins us, I welcome him on our behalf. We turn first to the establishment of the agenda for the 26th extraordinary meeting. May I have your attention, please? The draft agenda shall be drawn up in accordance with the second paragraphs of Rules 58 and 60 of the Rules of Procedure. You received it with a reference to December 24th this year. I have not received any motions to withdraw a point from the agenda. We are moving on to a proposal to extend the agenda. May I have your attention, colleagues and colleagues, please? The Republic Election Commission has submitted its observations to the National Assembly on the terms of office of Members. On the basis of that meeting, I propose to extend the agenda of this meeting with a view to the termination and approval of the terms of office of Members. You have also received this material on the bench, and I ask whether the representatives of the parliamentary groups want a proposal to expand the word. If there is no such interest, we will decide on a proposal to extend the agenda with the item "issues relating to the termination and confirmation of Members' mandates". Please vote on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're in the middle of a vote. There's 63 of us. 52 of us were in and 4 against. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted. And we will treat this proposal as an A1 item on the agenda. May I have your attention, please? We will move on to a full decision on the agenda. We are voting on the agenda as a whole. 70 in attendance, 55 in and 5 in. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the agenda of the 26th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. So first we're going to go to the A1 DOT OF THE DAY, THE DETERMINATION OF THE CANDITH WHO IS IN ACCORDANCE WITH 14. He's a member of the law on missions to perform the function of a messenger instead of a messenger who performs the function of the government. The Republic Election Commission forwarded to the assembly a finding on which candidate has the right to replace Member Slavko Gabra, who served as Minister for Education, Science and Sport. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder, who informed the assembly in writing. Does her rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do Members or Members, representatives of the groups of Members wish to speak? [[They don't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "While Member Slavko Gaber, who has been appointed Minister in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member, he shall perform this function, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of that Act, as of today, Mr Janez Komljanec, born 7.4.1938, residing on Celje cesta 60, Slovenj Gradec." We're voting. 68 present, 61 for and none against. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving on to the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On 19.12. this year, the National Assembly found that the Member of Parliament, Dr. Janez Drnovšk, had terminated his term of office. The Republic Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly the finding that the mandate of the current Member, Dr Janez Drnovska, has passed on to Richard Beumann. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder, who informed the assembly in writing. Members of the parliamentary groups would like a word? If that is not the case, we will vote on the decision. We're voting, please. I note that Mr Richard Beumann, born 20.4.1954, resident of Raskovec 11, Vrhnika, has been confirmed. We are moving on to a conclusion on the termination of the function of Member, in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members. In the light of the decision just taken, Mr Richard Beumann is no longer able to act as a Member, under the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder, who informed the assembly in writing. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] I therefore take note of the following conclusion: "On the basis of the fifth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members Richard Beumann shall cease to act today as a Member acting under the second paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members instead of Minister of Mags. Janez the Digger." We are moving on to the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 14 of the Law on Members, acts as a Member instead of a Member acting in government. The Republic Election Commission forwarded to the assembly a finding on which candidate has the right to replace a member of the Magi. Mr Janez Kopač, Minister for Environment, Space and Energy. You've received a written report. Do qualified speakers want a word? If that is not the case, I am closing the debate and we are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: "In time until the MEP of the mag. Janez Kopač, appointed Minister in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 14 of the Law on Members, cannot act as a Member, performs this function in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 14 of that Act as of today Mr Jaša Zlbec Lukič, born 21.11951, residing on Vilhareva Street 9, Piran." We're voting. 67 present, 65 for and no one against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the appointment of a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, becomes a Member for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On 20.12. this year, the National Assembly found that the members of Dr. Lucia Chok had terminated his term of office. The Republic Election Commission has forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the mandate of the current Ambassador, Dr Lucija Čok, has passed on to Mr Mario Gasparini. The findings were addressed by the Commission's mandate-holder. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would qualified representatives of parliamentary groups like to speak? [[They don't want to.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision: "The mandate of Mr Mario Gasparini, born 23.8.1935, resident of Levstikov 2, is confirmed." We're voting. 68 present, 65 for and none against. [[The vote was 65.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I invite our distinguished colleagues to join in the work of the National Assembly, and I congratulate them on this. [[Let's hear it.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to one. Agenda item - Re-Decision on the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2003 and 2004. At its 2nd meeting on 24 December this year, the Council of State of the Republic of Slovenia decided that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, it would require the national assembly to re-judge before declaring the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2003 and 2004. I ask a member of the Council of State, Mr Jožet Ilc, to inform the National Assembly of the reasons for such a request. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u2	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members! The Law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2003 and 2004 in paragraph 1 of paragraph 1 explicitly provides for changes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003, the budget for 2004, the structure of the specific part of the budget, the specificity of the implementation of the budget, the debt, the guarantee, the real sector and the availability of salaries and the amount of appropriate expenditure. It is explicitly stated here that the law on amending the budget of 2003. The budget, we know, is the whole thing. If we refer this to Article 36, after which the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2002 and 2003 expires, I believe that the legal void applies here. This cannot be massaged with some interpretations of the competent authorities, as they would like to use them, because the budget as a basic financial act of the State must be clear and precise. In particular, this applies once we have taken into account the further content of Article 36, which states that, by adopting this law, the acts of law also cease to apply. This is, again, in contradiction with Article 5 of the current law, which states that the budget is implemented in accordance with the provisions of this law and by law. What are your submarital acts? It's completely unclear here. Only Article 13 authorises the Ministry of Finance to issue a sub-legislative act. We do know, however, that the basic rule of each regulated country is that the administrative authority can issue sub-legislative acts only on the basis of a legal mandate. It's not like that in this marriage, and the law is invalid for me. Furthermore, if we take the middle of the law, in Article 8, which provides for the sale of certain assets to companies, it is still envisaged where these amounts will be earmarked for sale, but I had two concerns. First of all, it's about economic operators. The money must be returned to the economy, not to other investments. Otherwise, the budget will lose its purpose because the economy will continue to deteriorate with such a sale. Then, when will this be done? Speaks, the 2003 projection, but if we only take the amendments to the Public Finance Act published last year, we see, if not 80 further, even a long-term procedure that can last for a year before this property is sold out. And how this economy will transfer or continue to be indebted. In the sense of the law itself, we have Article 25, talking about certain guarantees, while at the same time the law practically repeals the previous one, the law implementing the 2002/2003 budget repeals a certain code that regulates these guarantees. Finally, we must not go beyond Article 29, which governs the financing of local communities. The financing of local communities is one of the fundamental obligations and budgetary obligations. However, proposing an increase in the amount, which looks nominal only, does not in fact provide sufficient resources to carry out all legal tasks in local communities. Local communities are getting new assignments. They owe it to me to get them out, but there won't be any money. This basically means some prokrust bed that will have all the local programs on it. Finally, here is a reference to the question of Article 20 of the collective agreement on non-economic activities, after which appropriate coordination should be carried out prior to the adoption of the budget with regard to the mutual obligations of trade unions and their expenditure. For some reason, we propose to this national assembly that this law be decided again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. Councilman. He wants to speak to the chairman of the Finance Committee? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee considered the proposal of the Council of State not to adopt this law and found, on the basis of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, that there were no formal reasons why the law should not be adopted and proposed to the National Assembly that the law should be re-examined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman of the Board, colleague Pucko. I will now invite a representative or a representative of the government to the floor. Madam Secretary of State, would you like a word? [[No, no, ……]] We have two requests to present the views of the Group. First of all, in writing, a colleague of Dr. Andrey Bajuk. A colleague of mags. A little something, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u6	Thank you so much for saying that. Allow me to give the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the law on the implementation of the budget for 2003 and 2004. We will not support this law for reasons that we have already mentioned in the previous reading, and some we have not mentioned, and I will try to put them to the end today, because there was no suitable time at the time. We have not proposed amendments to this law in the New Slovenia Group. Why not? Because we have already tabled reasonable proposals for amending the law for the years 2002 and 2001, in order to make the implementation of the budget transparent, clear, but all proposals have been clearly rejected. So now there was no reason for us to pry again and kill you with such matters. However, you should be warned and made public. And which areas are concerned, in particular with the statements and reports that should be, but are not an integral part of the documentation in the budget. This is a report on outstanding liabilities to suppliers, a report on commitments to pay over the coming years and a conditional obligation, such as repayment. The contingent liability is also the amount of guarantees to banks for loans. This consumption has not been proven or will not be demonstrated. Since these documents, or statements and reports under this law, will not be available, because such a proposal is a law, we will not know what the actual deficit of the Republic of Slovenia is. We will not have a clear methodology, internationally comparable, accounting methodology and, most importantly, we do not know how much we have spent, but it has not yet been paid and has an impact on financial non-discipline in our economy. This year, an amendment to an article is also scheduled to be adopted at a meeting of the National Assembly, which provides, in a new way, that the extent of the State's indebtedness is not to be considered an obligation for the purposes of State management. Do any of us Members know what we mean by managing our country's debts? This concept is not explained in the introductory articles of the proposed law; if it were clear to experts, that is to say, accountants and financiers, then this exception should not be defined in the law, and the basis for proper reporting would be found in accounting standards or accounting. Why this provision this year? Is it because we want to show something different in the next two fiscal years? Is it because we want to continue to cover the wrong conduct so far and to do so in the next two years? Some powers of government are also not reasonable in the law in terms of changes, such as Article 12, that, irrespective of the change in the budget of the redistribution from certain items to others, for example item 6396 - additional liabilities to the pension allowance at the Ministry of Finance. Why is that not logical? Because this item is simultaneously reduced in the revised budget for 2003 and is a source of reallocation to other items, explaining that there is a surplus in the pension and disability insurance law. The Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, however, had to reduce its budget or budget with this correction of the budget at the assembly two days ago - or now a little more - and at the same time announced that it would start to cover its budget deficit in the past years in 2004 and beyond. The fact is that this uncovered deficit of the PSI is part of the country's budgetary deficit, as is the case with the health treasury deficit, as measured by European Union standards. The budgetary deficit of the country needs to be identified not only by the level of the state budget but also by the other two treasury and some state funds, which is clear, as it is financed by public taxes, mandatory contributions. That Law for 2003 and 2004 also does not provide for any more transparency than the previous years of the powers to indemnify the State budget, i.e. the narrower country, and in particular the public sector and other persons entitled to State guarantees. The National Assembly thus gives the Bianca the power to repay or potential budgetary obligations measured at billions of tolars, on the fact that it is still not clear whether these quotas cover the overall debt, which is internationally comparatively referred to as "public Debts" or public debt. Since the state's debt or public debt for the government so far will reach at least 40 per cent of Slovenia's gross social product in the coming year, we are not yet talking publicly about the aggregate amount of public debt that our current and future development allows. In this area of debt, we lack aggregate fiscal criteria or limitations for joint debt in gross social product, for the first time for a narrower, for the second time for a wider country and for the third time for the other public sector in which Darsa's debt is included, and for the whole public debt as a sum thereof. Obviously, we will have to wait for better times with these and other questions, in particular answers and arrangements. We may meet with these things when we consider the six-year budget implementation report. Of course, if the government prepares it at all, the National Assembly will put it on the agenda. This has not yet happened. Let's hope the new government makes a difference. In view of the above-mentioned law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2003 and 2004 for those reasons, we will not support the New Slovenia Group and we will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. The position of the Slovenian National Party Parliamentary Group will be explained by counterpart Jelinčič, behind him by colleague Kelemin. Please, Comrade Jelinčič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u8	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When I listened to Mr Ilco as a representative of the Council of State, I might even have believed him if he did not know the background behind which the Council of State had made a request for a re-decision on the law. The demand is of a very selfish nature. Gentlemen were very upset when the National Assembly took away certain funds from them and directed them to where they were actually going. In those areas that Mr. Ilc was talking about not getting them. It is interesting that the President of the Council of State did not find it worth reading a letter from the President of the National Assembly, which he had sent to him before the debate in the State Council on Tuesday this week, because gentlemen from the Council of State were so affected, only how could anyone who presents himself as a second home or as a Senate in a country that has a single-house parliament in its constitution, how could such gentlemen be resisted and given any financial credit they receive. In November last year, the Slovenian National Party launched an initiative to abolish the State Council in the National Assembly. And of the 20 signatures you need, fellow Members, we have only collected nine signatures with you fellow Members. You have all remained against this or you have not been able to explain to yourself and to say out loud that the actual state council is a blind bowel of Slovenian parliamentaryism, that they are doing nothing, that they are serving beautifully and that they are actually vetoing laws only when their own interests are affected. For when the Slovenian National Party introduced two laws on the protection of Slovenian national interests, the State Council did not feel worthy to discuss anything similar. No, no, no. It's none of their business. They are, of course, affected by this budget, which they are receiving from certain financial resources. And then, in November 2001, we also conducted a survey on the visibility and usefulness of the state council. 918 random phone subscribers were asked, and it turned out that 76% of the respondents didn't know the work of the state council. 52% did not know the difference between the National Assembly and the Council of State. And a good 73% of the respondents also felt that the state council was not needed by the state. This thing's just gone by, too. Unfortunately, because the National Assembly did not know how to use these arguments and these evidences, it was in order that, after all, the gentlemen of the Council of State would cut down slightly the financial poultry which are given large wings. The interests of the State Council in this area, I say again, are very selfish. This selfishness pushes them somewhere into an upgrade, into an illusory, glass dome that they built and that we helped build, because we allowed them to have their incomes, their wages completely untransparent - that, for example, the secretary of the State Council had a substantially higher salary than the secretary of the State Assembly. And because no one could ask, how is it possible that all the technical services of the National Assembly work for the Council of State? After all, they are also in our premises, and they do not allocate any funds for this. They do, however, allocate funds to travel around the world. And to say the case of the President of the National Assembly in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia [[I mean with the tripartite delegation]] there was already a ten-member delegation of the State Council, which was long and wide explaining how they were the other home, so to speak, the Senate and almost soon will take the decision in the State Assembly. This thing just has to stop. And I will take this moment to appeal once again to fellow Members and Members to come together and end this consumer of the state budget, who has not done a single positive thing so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u9	Mr Kelemin will present the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Comrade Kelemin, you have the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall. Comrade Kelemina has one word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Our Group of Members, the Social Democratic Parties, irrespective of the right of the State Council to vote on a veto on a proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2003 and 2004 - therefore, whatever this decision is, our Group against the adoption of such a law is, in particular, for reasons that this bill on the implementation of the budget is not actually worth coming to the National Assembly and that we confirm it. I mean, what's this all about? This bill, on the basis of which it essentially denies and nullifies all previous decisions of the National Assembly which have been legitimately adopted in the National Assembly and even a number of specificities which deny the legislation already adopted, such as the Public Finance Act as one of the basic laws under which the executive branch and the Parliament, as well as all the consumers of public funds in that country, then with a general provision, some additional negary provision has been adopted by the Public Finance Act and introduces a whole range of specificities, unnecessary specificities. And, of course, throughout this whole law, there is a red thread, quite simply said, a narrowing of situations to daily politics, just as some ruling elite at some point fits. This is totally unacceptable. And no matter what I say, the decisions of the State Council will be happy against the adoption of such a law. I can also give you some articles if you want. Just read Article 14, where it is well written that all national programmes, all the laws we have adopted in the National Assembly, legitimately having a financial impact on the State budget, are subsequently denied and no longer applicable by Article 14, paragraph 1, and will only be enforced at the level and in those amounts set out in the 2003 and 2004 budget. This is unacceptable ridiculous and underestimating for the National Assembly. The government and the ruling coalition should make such decisions and adopt such laws as would, of course, have some basis, a real basis for enforcement. If they cannot be implemented, shared by false promises and false expectations, both to themselves and to the Slovenian public, about the success and effectiveness and the wishes and priorities that this country is supposed to have and then fail to achieve, it is extremely unacceptable, and I think even an abusive and unworthy assembly. Then the next provision, if we look only in Article 20, which I have already presented in some way on the Finance Committee itself, where you say in the first paragraph that it is necessary to respect Article 25 of the Public Finance Act, and then by continuing the whole type of provisions you deny what the law states in Article 25 of the Public Finance Act, and allow specificities such as unargumented consumption, the acquisition of certain funds necessary for action and so on. We understand, we understand that it is necessary, perhaps in some situation, because of some emergency, some problem, to acquire some basic asset or material or to make some kind of investment, maintenance, but someone has to approve it. For this purpose, someone should have one modest commission, a subcommittee or an individual who would grant such an unforeseeable investment or expenditure from the Ministry of Finance system. This is the least that it should be, there will be no review of this, but just as "ad hoc" is being made available to someone so that they can spend unplanned funds. Then a very important provision, which I must certainly draw attention to, is, of course, in Article 29, a whole series of other provisions that have already been mentioned today, where the provision of funds or suitable expenditure or principals for the municipalities is referred to. We have in the strategy for the economic development of Slovenia, at least there, if not elsewhere, it is written that the system of financing our municipalities is unacceptable. And Europe's uncomparable. And that it needs to be improved. You have written this yourself in some documents, and we are now adopting the 2003 budget, where this definition in the national programme or national project is not being implemented at all and I am asking when it will ever come true. Obviously, this will never happen because you are not prepared to take this into account in the 2003 budget or in the 2004 budget. But you increase here the proper consumption or so-called principal per capita by less than 5 percent. Less than 5 per cent This is said, given your expected inflation, which you expect in 2003 5.1 and 2004 4 per cent or something like that, you do not almost increase this amount of consumption, the appropriate consumption per capita in the Republic of Slovenia. Because, in the final stage, it is true that very developed and municipalities that provide sufficient resources to finance all their needs would, of course, benefit those municipalities that are under-dimensioned financial institutions that are in some way in need of assistance to those municipalities, but this amount of appropriate consumption per capita would, of course, be useful if it were to be slightly higher, because it would also introduce an instrument of promotion, the development of less developed municipalities; and we are all talking about more coherent regional development, helping municipalities in difficulties that cannot provide their own resources or would require significantly more resources in order to provide certain needs and needs that are provided through the State budget in these areas. Unfortunately, we're doing everything that's said completely wrong. But, in addition to all of this, and all of the mistakes you have made with this proposal or with this law on the implementation of the budget, there is another element here, which is essentially a kind of, in our opinion, maybe even an attack on a legitimate constitutional category, that is to say, on the State Council. Rather, "ad hoc" is to be taken into account, but it is unacceptable to propose an amendment with which some organisations take financial resources for its operation. We believe that it would be necessary and right, as we always do, that saving is essential in all areas. Even in the National Assembly, including in the State Council, in all institutions, there is a need for substantial savings, and it would be right for all institutions, with a programme drawn up by the Authority, to make these programmes in good time, to reduce funds, to reduce costs and then, on the basis of this agreement, to find out which amount of resources a given institution needs for its toll of acceptable proper operation. It is unacceptable to take a certain amount of funds with your thumb. We agree that it would be wise to open a debate on what has already been proposed to discuss whether we need the state world at all, in this country, and whether we need a different solution. Surely we are in favour of opening this matter up and discussing it. But not that way. This, however, is humiliating and is also showing in some way the current intolerance of the ruling elite, particularly the LDS, against the state world and against the constitutional institution of this country. Insufferable hatred for an institution - perhaps because this institution is not formed in the current situation as it is most suited to it. However, when this institution was different, years ago, they were happy to support their operation, their mode of operation, and also to support the use of funds, at the level agreed at that time. It's unacceptable for our estimates. In short, as I said in the introduction, our parliamentary group, for many, many reasons, of course, of this law, will not once again support it. And we expect you to have some way of taking into account what the representatives of the Council of State have said, and that you will also regulate your intolerance and your hatred for this institution in a more democratic way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. Does any of the other members of the group wish to clarify their views? The DeSUS delegation, Comrade Kebrich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President, for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! We will support the law in the parliamentary group, as we did for the first time. Why? The macroeconomic reasons force us to reduce our spending, our expenditure, and on the other hand we cannot agree to postpone and implement the budget after the original, which represents as much as 5 billion more. The additional reason is, of course, when we examined the report submitted to us by the Council of State, and when we heard the justification for the procrastination veto, when we saw the report of the National Assembly compared to one year and two months against the five-year report, although it is about 30 pages longer, but the paper carries everything, we believe that only two, three data suggest that it is right to start saving, not only with the state world, but also with the government and with us as well as with all institutions down. For example, in two years we have adopted so many laws, no more and no less than we have adopted in 2001 and in these two months, over 70. On the other hand, only 12 laws have been proposed by the Council of State in five years. He gave 42 opinions and 12 opinions as well, he vetoed it 22 times, and we took it into account 3 times. On the basis of these statistics, compared to our work, I would hope to say that there would be no member for half wages who would not have gone to their place, but I doubt that they would have come to our place, even if they had paid for their salaries; I think they would have replaced after one month, as they are now. I will not delay with additional information which is clear that the work of the Council of State is, as it descends into certain areas that belong to the work of civil society institutions, that this work is actually too much. Therefore, once again, our Group of Members will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u13	From what I understand, we have exhausted the views of the groups of Members. A colleague of Pec's wants the word. Then any of the other colleagues and colleagues want it? Comrade Peca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u14	I would like to refer to the continuation of the position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group, in that matter, of the content that the law on the implementation of the budget for 2003 and 2004 is, of course, much higher material or more extensive matter than just and only the State Council. The position on the attitude or attitude of the Slovenian National Party towards the State Council was expressed by the leader of the parliamentary group. As far as the law on enforcement is concerned, of course, we will not support it in the Slovenian National Party because we cannot. As this gives us the continuation or green light for the rate or growth of inflation, the additional debt, bonds and the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia. And since we do not agree with the public finances policy that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is running in our country, this time we will also vote against this law. As far as this micro matter of the state world is concerned. Yes, and the attitude and the vote, at least around our party, remains the same. But the public finances are, of course, much broader and much more important. And we are convinced that it would be precisely for the title or for the sake of a better and more pacifying life in our country to meet again with a better law on budget implementation. So this time, we won't support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u15	Comrade Jerovšek and then colleague Tsukjat.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, representative of the government, secretary of state! At the outset, I must say that, as with the budgetary debate and the adoption of these laws, I also miss the Minister of Finance here, and in fact I find a rather unsettling attitude towards Parliament and on such important matters as are still being decided here today. Of course, the budget implementation law cannot be supported because I myself have been personally against the budget as such, its allocation, and I cannot be harmful to something that sanctions such an opaque, untransparent, poorly prepared and also to Slovenia. However, something needs to be said in this regard, which we are discussing today. The purpose of the amendment that caused this matter, this small constitutional crisis, I could say, was good. If only I'd been honest with you. However, if it were to be honest, the largest government party would certainly have mechanisms and the power to find and reach funds for the Western Border Defenders' monument in the regular budget. If he can grant some billion awards to some managers with his left hand. However, the purpose of this amendment, which is already so visible today, has been significantly more politically motivated. Specially, or personally, I am not interested in, or in fact, in some way could be a happy game within the coalition. And the trick of jealousy, the throwing of pollen under your feet. What we've seen the last time. The fact is that the main purpose of this amendment was to do so at the beginning of a certain mandate, a new government, you can immediately see that you are totally in conflict. And this way with intrigue, of course, is a bad journey and a bad promise for what will happen in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u17	Comrade Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u18	This shouldn't have happened that way. In fact, if we had this serious purpose, we would have assured the tigers that a monument would be built. In particular, this has now come to light, who were the real "spiritus agent" of Marsich's proposal. What important policy has stood behind, this information comes from both the government majority and I must condemn such a way of approach to work. This is a very bad trip. I'm saying it again. At the same time, the aim of all of what you have achieved is to, in some ways, try to bring the constitutional authority into line with some means rather than to start a debate on this, to reduce Parliament's reputation. Mr President, in today's Work, I am reading that in some introduction you have written that there should be an increase in Parliament's reputation for national interest at the threshold of EU integration. I agree with that, but the coalition in which you are involved is working in a completely different way. It is working entirely against this high objective, which should be of national interest. And this shameful event, in fact, which we are witnessing today, is going in this direction to further undermine the reputation of Parliament and the constitutional institutions in this country. And this is where you have to think seriously. The debate on the situation in the Slovenian authorities and the negative consequences that it has for the vital interests of this country and the vital interests of the citizens of Slovenia, such a way of operating this government coalition, should be of greater importance than this debate we now have. [[...]] [[Laugh.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u19	Please, Comrade Jerovšek, please, if you can finish the performance. Please. Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u20	In fact, of course I understand that you're a little nervous when you're in a transparent way. [[Laugh]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u21	Please! Comrade Jerovšek, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u22	in a transparent way, remove the fog from the scenes of these games. [[...]] And, as I say, these games, which you are also going to adopt in the adoption of the budget, in the adoption of the law on the implementation of the budget, are unacceptable to the reputation of Parliament, for the reputation of this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u23	Comrade Tsukati, behind him comrade Marshich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u24	Thank you for your word. Well, I am glad that Mr Jelinčič has somehow pointed out the essence of the problem of 130 million taken by the state world. In fact, 130 million is not a lot of money for the state budget, but it is for the state council. And I think that this is the core of the problem, that is, how this is happening and how state resources are allocated. He was very good at explaining and trying to justify this taking of money to the state world by saying that we don't really need the state world. There's probably a desire behind taking resources from the state world, some subconscious -- or some methodology, how can you push an institution to the ground or destroy it without changing the constitution or anything like that. We know that through state budget grants or by taking money, we can extend or destroy certain companies through this policy. The question of 130 million is certainly not about an extremely motivated search for money and investment in economic recovery, education or the construction of a new oncological institute, but it is about an object, building a monument that could wait a while longer. It is by taking money, where we can hurt an institution, hurt a particular enterprise, terminate it or a certain layer of entrepreneurship, crafts or agriculture, or we are stretching out, or exhausting such a policy, that I think we can only work in the case of what is happening with us, where, forgive me, we are seeing some political privatisation of the state budget. Gentlemen, this is already a serious matter - the political privatisation of the state budget. The Coalition should be aware that these are state funds and not privatised party funds, and that in this case it is not possible to take the matter in such a way that we can employ a certain range of people by means of these funds, by state resources, by extending certain undertakings and by somehow exhausting certain institutions. So much political tact in European democracy could be expected and demanded from the government coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Three others have asked for a word. My friend Marshich, Pukšič and finally Rokavec. My friend Marshich first.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will say that, of course, I will reconfirm the law, regardless of the fact that, of course, the 130 million tolars that we have taken away from the State Council with the amendment and dedicated them to the budget line of the Ministry of Culture have aroused so many serious blood and spirits. I think the basic purpose of the veto of the State Council was precisely this way. On this occasion, I would say that, of course, there was no intention of weakening any relations between the National Assembly and the State Council and that there was no "spiritus agensa" behind those four or signed under the amendment. And let me remind you here that at the time 35 Members voted in favour and only 2 were against it. And that they voted in favour of this amendment and added to the budget, both by the position or by the government parties and by the opposition. Mr Jerovšek himself said he voted in favour. Now, of course, it is too late to repent after an act has been committed and point to a conspiracy. And I don't think it's delicious. It is therefore necessary to take decisions and to take responsibility for the decisions that took place at the time of the vote. But it is true that when we looked for a source for that project, we also went to look at the functioning, functioning and rational use of the resources the State Council has. We have not gone down and we have also played the role that the State Council has by the Constitution in accordance with the law. And when we saw data that did not come from that publication, perhaps something different, that the Council of State, perhaps also legitimately, organised 74 consultations and public debates, 53 lectures and published 29 publications to pay personal incomes or compensations, awards that are not in accordance with Article 62 of the Law on the State Council, which says that a member of the State Council has the right to make up for lost earnings for the time of office and the right to reimburse the costs of performing the function, here we are likely to see reserves that the State Council will probably have to consider in the next term, to think about its own way of doing things, to change a little in this sense, and to find some mechanisms that it will also operate on, as well as all other state authorities, to find some reserves that it can operate on. I think he has the means to function in the following year. And that, of course, they might show up and prove themselves in this term. And I think that this will be an opportunity for the next budgets, where, of course, if they do, they will have more resources than that. I would not go into what in those debates and debates and public debates organised by the Council of State and we also received invitations to the National Assembly, in which they all set out. However, I think that there has still been, and there is, still a lot of reserves, by which the State Council has the resources to function, but it will really have to, of course, it can be organised differently and with these funds allocated to it can function in the following year. So please, let's talk about what was in the background, what was meant. As I said, the consensus was great, and now we simply have to agree to the decision we made at the time, and take all the responsibility with it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. My friend Puksic. Sorry, colleague Pukšič, because colleague Jerovšek was specifically mentioned in the performance by his colleague Marcič has the right to a replica under the Rules of Procedure if he wishes to object to any of the remarks made by his colleague Marcič. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u28	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u29	Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u30	My friend Marshich has paraphrased my words. Of course, on the basis of what I have heard, and on the basis of what I have heard from the relative or very metric mouth, I say that there was a political purpose back here. Once again, I would also like to vote in favour of the building of a monument for Western border defenders today. But that wasn't the primary objective of this amendment, I'm problematic today.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u31	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u32	Don't make me gesticulate. If it were a serious intention to launch a reasoned debate on the situation and role of the State Council, which I would strongly agree with, I too am in favour of opening and problematic, then the biggest government party could do so in a different way and in a timely manner also point out certain structural imbalances in the budget or in the draft budget. The aim, however, was to achieve political objectives and, at the same time, to be not entirely honest, in my view, at the position of setting up a final monument for Western border defenders, so the tigers, although it is far too late, far too late that you did not have the courage to have your client at the time, at least in the 1990s, act clearly against those injustices that the tigers suffered because the party banned the right role of the tigers in order to make it known to the public that they were the first fighters against fascism in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. You didn't do it then. It's a good thing you recognize the mistakes and do it today. On the other hand, I would also like to know whether you are sincere about the fact that there will also be defenders or fighters on this monument for independent Slovenia, because the predecessors in your party signed another statement in those days, which went completely underground, against the defence of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u33	Look, I suggest we not go over the lines of discussion. I gave you my word for a replica based on Article 70. This provides that you have this right if your discussion has been misinterpreted or interpreted and your replica is limited only to the necessary explanation. I think we've cleared that up. My colleague Pukšič now has the floor, followed by his colleague Rokavec, and then, I think we can go to the vote. Please come in, buddy Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u34	Thank you very much. It does not seem right to me that today, with the veto voted by the State Council, some of you are actually attacking the State Council and discussing how effective it is and how much it is needed or not. The fact is that in its report, the Council of State also stated that Article 29 of the Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2003 and 2004 sets out the amount of eligible expenditure per inhabitant of the Republic of Slovenia to finance the legal and other tasks of local communities. And the fact is that representatives in the State Council who defend the interests of local communities have been sufficiently effective and also convincing that, together with others who represent other interests, they have voted veto and in this proposal for a decision, why is ZIPRO so bad that it is necessary to vote against it, have had sufficient arguments and know the problem, not only in the heart of Ljubljana, but also the issue of the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, as these representatives also come from the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The fact is that before the appointment of the new government and in the discussions on the 2003 budget, namely the 2003 rebalancing and the 2004 budget, there were so many speeches on coherent regional development - and, of course, this is not felt in the budget, in fact in no items or even more - indicates an even greater degree of disparities between the rural and the centre and even greater differences. Today we have over 100,000 unemployed in the Republic of Slovenia, today we have over 30,000 families living on the brink of poverty. Local communities, as we well know, some political parties are wrong to have so many municipalities that in 1994 a law on local communities was passed and, of course, they are now trying, in a way, to restrict resources for appropriate consumption per capita, in fact, to abolish smaller local communities. Already, birds on the branch are sizzling that the resources of local communities after this appropriate consumption per capita in small municipalities are not sufficient, but not only in small ones, even in larger ones, they are not sufficient for the statutory and constitutional tasks they have in the municipalities, since in this very national assembly much legislation has been passed which imposes certain burdens on local communities, but I do not give them the resources to carry out these activities. The fact is that even if someone listened to Dr. Buchar last night, who clearly said that after 12 years in fact, not that we did not achieve what the inhabitants and the inhabitants expected, but that we were, in fact, even worse, because in the one-party system, they knew, except for what, of course, they didn't know what the secret official papers were, but they knew who was responsible for what. Today, however, a large proportion of these people have been distributed by government parties, and this is how this is going in this direction in order to achieve the political goal that some have set themselves. This is, as far as the veto is concerned, a proposal for a decision by the State Council to discuss this, in fact, the abolition of municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia. As my fellow Member had already said at the outset, regarding the second paragraph of Article 20, which says that, irrespective of that first paragraph, funds can be used for the acquisition of basic funds and for the implementation of investment maintenance - the fact is that it is a free opportunity for the government to continue to spend resources, such as those for the purchase of a radar that has been standing for more than eight years, for the purchase of a police boat, which is on a nonstop service, for the purchase of a government aircraft, for the purchase and purchase of a residence that is just before, it seems, of course, different Mercedes and so on. In short, a warning from the state council this time and in this crew apparently raised some dust. If the world continues as it has begun, it will actually more than justify its existence and its functioning. Let us hope that this will also be the case with government parties and that the debate of the Council of State will be taken into account at some point, which will then become a decision of the national assembly itself. The fact is, a number of decisions that have been in here and that have not been lifelike, if they have not gone with the veto, have, of course, been rejected by the people at the referendum. That is why, of course, I myself will not support this proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u35	I have three more applications: a colleague of Rokavac, a colleague of Shirco and a colleague of Mojet. First, my friend Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u36	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members. I will not support the draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 and 2004. This is not due to the reasons or backgrounds stated by him, which may have been heard in the decisions of the State Council as well, but mainly because the transparency of the public debt in the Republic of Slovenia is in fact further blurred and the conditions for improving the liquidity of the State budget are further reduced with ZIPRO for 2003 and 2004. I am convinced that, as far as these issues are concerned, there is a substantial, substantial lack of speech in this House and that this issue has a significant underweight. It'll explode when it's too late. Now, perhaps at the end of the day, there was a lot of talk about this background. I would suggest, Mr President, that we actually convene a discussion with the leaders of the parliamentary groups, including on the issue of the relationship between the National Assembly and the Council of State. I am convinced that this precedent, which has taken place, can actually lead to a deterioration of relations on the relationship between the Council of State and the National Assembly. That's probably not good. I'm sure it's not a coincidence that there was such a content of this amendment. It can also take account of the current composition of the state council. Therefore, I am sure that passion should be calmed and that one correct agreement should be made at this level as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u37	Comrade Shirtz, you have the floor behind you, Comrade Moge. I'm asking if there'll be anyone else? My friend Kelemin. Anyone else? We still have our debates. Please, Shirtz's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much. Perhaps my predecessors overlooked one fact when they spoke of the fact that the tigers were in history, that the mark of their actions was too late or not at all. Let me remind you that the first monument to tigers was set up by the historical profession itself, when, I'm not going to say, it was to reinterpret history and their role, but to put them in a place that it had not given them in history. That's what happened before 1990. In 1990, in all the articulation of their role, let me mention the efforts of historian Bohincheva, in the construction itself, as well as the monument, before 1990, as you know with a smaller mark on Nanos. However, I came forward to warn, or even to direct, some kind of partial treatment to my impression, both in the State Council and possibly in Parliament, when you decided to amend the 2003 budget or in the State Council when you decided to reject both budgets. Firstly, I think that it was in the state council for some kinds of alibis, at least if I read the report, given that some selfishness was hiding with an alibi when, with arguments that were placed entirely in another field, for example, care about how the state would know, could or hoped to use funds from the sale of state property, care about how budget users who do not have new, no abolished or no changed purposes would benefit from or benefit from budget cuts. At the same time, in the national world, the councillors did not ask themselves how all those budgetary consumers would be, and I will only give an example in the area of culture, where they have 4 billion less valuable resources, as far as they are being set up or conditioned by the laws we have adopted here and of which the Council of State has not spoken against them. On the other hand, I also see a certain selfishness in the amendments themselves, not so much because of the monument itself. After all, if anyone, then I can express my own lack of respect for the 90 and more old participants, the first defenders of Slovenian resistance, but also the first to take action against the threat of Slovenia or fascism. After all, very few are left, and those who are can still remember these times with tears in their eyes. However, in the very means of preserving all monuments in Slovenia, the Ministry of Labour has 280, and they have been reduced, millions of values. And this is the custody of all monuments abroad, which are said to be covered by international obligations. It's the custody of monuments from World War I, from the second, from the last, and it's just maintenance. I think and I hope that in 2003 and 2004, we will also face the consequences of a law that unfortunately did not get an epilogue this year, but that it is a law on war graves, where we have always wondered in the discussion of this law how to minimize the use of those little marks, so that too much expenditure would not occur. Some of the features have not been set or are not as they might wish they were, both in the Kočevský Horn, elsewhere and elsewhere from Ljubelje down. In any case, I am talking about the disproportion that arises at 130 million for a monument that does not have any greater consensus, and in the end, the government has never included it in its programmes, but at the same time is being built, and the disproportion to those monuments and the preservation of monuments, both at the Ministry of Labour and at the posts of the Ministry of Culture, where there is a shortage of funds for almost 3 billion, in the broader sense of preservation of monuments. What I'm trying to say is that this is a matter of some kind of partisanism and seeing you, I'm going to say, small or personal questions, not whole. In this sense, it is only necessary to look here at which selfishness is less harmful. It is clear that without a revised budget for 2003 and at the same time a confirmation for 2004 I do not see positive possibilities for the functioning of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u39	My colleague Mogue, behind you, colleague Kelemin and Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u40	Thank you very much, President. For the first time, "ad rem", if we are going to say, we are talking about the opinion, the demands of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for a re-decision, I must say that I trust our legal service and also our working body, the Committee on Finance, which have undoubtedly said that this requirement in the points presented by the respected colleague Ilc, is unfounded. So that's why I'm voting for this law. If I go, secondly, 'ad personam', everyone is elected somewhere, and everyone here in the National Assembly complains repeatedly that the whole thing is extremely centralised and that the perimeter is not supported. The law, which we will be deciding about today, will point to who supports the creation of the second financial pillar to redistribute the power of capital across Slovenia. And as an MP from this area I certainly would not have hoped to come among my constituents steaming, I broke the ground for somehow supporting the allocation of at least a few financial flows in the country of Slovenia. For this reason, I will also personally, 'ad personam', vote and support such a law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u41	My friend Kelemin.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u42	Thank you so much for saying that again. In addition, I would just like to explain that it would not be misunderstood that we support or personally support any unnecessary increase in the use of any institution in that country or body, perhaps through the ability or even unnecessary spending of any kind of money. Not at all. I have said this before, but once again I stress that we are certainly in opposition, and I have personally pointed out many times that a system of savings should be put in place, but a truly transparent and efficient system of saving at all levels. That's a fact. Why am I saying this? This is because I have a lot of experience in this area. Not only do I find that in fact funds in a number of institutions are spent needlessly or even that they are spent at individual levels. I know that myself. In addition, many times, various officials from directly or indirectly from the state administration, from the local level or from the state level, even from the state level, including from individual ministries, say, as I have said, directly or indirectly, that this authority is in fact immensely wasteful and that there is still a huge amount of money spent on irrelevant things. And if employees say things like that themselves, then we know there's a lot of things wrong here. This power has no energy, has no power to open one broad debate on how and at what levels and at which segments to actually approach a planned system of saving and to eliminate everything that has been dragging and completely unnecessary for years and years, and maintains the system because of itself. That's a fact. And you don't want to do this program. And you don't want to suggest that. And you don't want to open a debate on this, but you're only performing demogosically, both with the Prime Minister and with the finance minister, their secretaries and so on, how you save on individual segments. I'm not going to say that maybe not somewhere, at some tiny piece of work. Logically, you're just trying to think of it as some sort of savings, but that's not what I want, what the public wants, what taxpayers want, what we actually expect from this authority. I am very interested if I also replicate to some of you who have been here, how positive this law on the implementation of the budget on regional development and on the backlog of the Slovenian countryside and so on, I am very interested in what these effects will be in 2003 and 2004. I'm just curious, and I'm looking forward to finding out and doing an analysis to figure out what actually happened in this area. I'm pretty sure it's nothing. We will only become even more distinguished, even more difficult, even more backward rural areas and absolutely nothing else. If this proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget is different and if I am wrong, I will gladly accept this mistake and also make it public. In short, I expect, even in view of what I have just said, from the authorities, from the ruling desire that you prepare an effective programme, a savings project at all levels. Both in the National Assembly, in the Government, in all institutions, in the State Council, to discuss it and then to acknowledge it as a whole and to take it as a basis for the government to be able to propose budgets, to spend resources, including those measures that we will take into account in the preparation and to take into account once public finances as transparent as our taxpayers want them to be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much, colleague Kelemina. There are three more in my schedule: colleague Juban, Pece and Horvat. Please, Comrade Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'll back the law myself. Before the day we adopted both budgets and the law on the implementation of the budget, which should then be concluded. Today, a representative of the Council of State has given us a number of arguments to reject this last law. The debate that is going on here today is completely different and a lot of nonsense is being told, which is not at all among these arguments - I apologize for the expression. Yeah, you don't have to. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u45	Please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u46	And today’s explanation of votes is unusually long, which has not usually happened in the vetoes we have experienced in the past. In the end, all the arguments of the Council of State are concentrated in a story that is said to affect the function of the Council of State so far as the question of the functioning of the Council of State is concerned. In this way, in public or through the media, we had the opportunity to listen to the reasons that have always ended this way. It is true that the whole weight of the budget of the State Council is such that it is not so great, because after 500 million we, with various referendums, threw several times through the window and no one worried. However, if we go to the last show led by Mr Bobovnik, where colleagues Marsic and the President of the Council of State met, an essential question was raised, which we will be deciding today, whether the role of the State Council is really affected, as some of you have said. It's not true. Nothing's gonna get hurt. The question is whether - now I will use the vocabulary of my colleague Pukšič - whether 75,000 per hour is enough for a saint or 35,000. That's the question. And whether or not the function of the State Council will really be affected through this problem. Not to mention social demagogies, but I will use another comparison: whether the monthly salary of the textile worker is comparable to the hourly salary of the state councilor or if only half of the salary is enough. This is an important reason enough for me to back up the budget implementation law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u47	Before I give the floor to my colleague Puksic for the replica, because he was appointed during your debate, let me say that the status of the debate on re-decision under the new Rules of Procedure is different than it was before. Earlier, as you know, the Rules of Procedure did not allow the debate, now allow it, and we are in the middle of this debate. Comrade Puksic, you wanted three minutes for the replica. Please stick to the explanation at the point when you were mentioned.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Of course, I have no answer to the question raised by my fellow Member, Mr Juban, because I do not know these details. What I do know, I warn you. I would point out, however, that the wage of the worker is far too low, that 85 000 and some of it is far too low as the financial compensation per capita in the Republic of Slovenia for the provision of legal and constitutional tasks in the municipality, that with such a budget the beginning of the abolition of municipalities and that the awards in Elan are far too high, enormous and that the colleague of Juban, who has been in power for ten years, has all the possibilities, all the instruments in his hands to make a difference here. The fact is that neither the LDS nor the ruling coalition has done this in ten years, nor colleague Juban.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u49	My friend Peca, then my friend Horvat. Does anyone else want a word then, or I will close the debate and we will go to the vote. Then I find that after colleague Horvath there will be no more debaters, at least for the moment, and I invite colleagues and colleagues to move to the vote. Please, my friend Peca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u50	The title of today's hearing is the Law on the Implementation of the Budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 and 2004. I would like to point out that the National Assembly is simply talking about whether or not it agrees with this country's financial policy proposal. It is very demagotic, in this case, for Mr Mojet, to talk about the New Maribor Credit Bank in connection with the PBS and the performance of Members later on in relation to regional development. The same would be true of us, or of any Member, whether the Slovenian National Party, in order to use only my party to say that those who support this law on the implementation of the budget support the structure of the tax revenue in order to support the growing inflation that would support it. In short, there's a lot to talk about connections, why support why not support it, but let's stay on the real ground. And the argument why this law is not supported is that we do not agree with the financial picture of this country, because we are convinced that this does not lead us anywhere into a better future, a better future, with less costs, less public spending, I think this is a good argument why we should agree to this. However, I cannot agree with the theory that in this case it is exclusively a matter of connecting the Maribor Bank and the PBS, without the behaviour of what will happen next. Are we going to sell both banks that are going to be after the new one if they're going to be united to a foreigner? With this, perhaps, of course, I speak one option, create a good seller and an even better foreign buyer. And I find it very inappropriate on your part, Mr Mohe, to try to pressure individual Members in this way. If you've been able to afford this insight, I'll say, this law will be supported by those who want more taxes in this country and those who are in the interest of higher inflation. And given that inflation is not in the interest of the Slovenian National Party, including tax policy, we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u51	Thank you. Clarification by Comrade Moge.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u52	A brief explanation. I spoke only for myself and only for myself, and I didn't mention anyone, nor the Maribor Credit Bank. That my things hold, let the esteemed colleague take a look at Article 8 of this Law, point 4, or, let's say, let's also look at Article 8 paragraph 3, where it says that the purchase from the capital investments of the Vrhnika Region will be given half a billion dollars for compensatory measures of the agricultural structural policy and to increase the purpose of the public fund of the Republic of Slovenia, that I am not talking about the Soot and all others. So, because of these good things that this law brings, I will personally support it, but I am not talking about other Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u53	Also, colleague Horvat asked for the floor, then, I note, we will conclude the debate and move to a vote. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u54	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, distinguished councillor and distinguished secretary of state! For the introduction to my brief debate, I would first like to say that I will try to comply with the rules of procedure or that I will follow my understanding of the Rules of Procedure. On the agenda we have a re-decision on the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2003 and 2004, as requested by the Council of State, so I will not go to the general debate on the law on the implementation of the budget and even on the budget, nor in the general debate on the situation and role of the Council of State and the attitude of the Council of State towards the National Assembly. I will also try to refrain from making statements that would provoke further objections or debates, because I think that doing in such a form is completely unproductive. First of all, I want to say that I will support the bill. I think that's what my colleagues and fellow Members will do. The reasons are as follows. Firstly, the country needs the budget as well as this law, which is an integral part of the budget. That's essential. Secondly, given the request of the State Council and its arguments, and if we take this into account and believe - and I have no reason not to believe - the arguments of the legislative and legal service that this is not a matter of such ambiguity or impreciseness in this law, that this would be a reason not to back up this law, this is a strong enough argument to make us act in a way that we support the law. Veto was, even in my personal opinion, motivated by an amendment that reduces funds on a specific item of the State Council. Personally, I am not sure that this was the wisest solution, but this is also not a strong enough reason to reject this law - and I would not now comment on it - if this amendment, which has been adopted, was still a problem, I am sure that it is possible to find a solution, if not otherwise, even with the rebalance of the budget. But that's what I'd like to conclude, given that the debate on the State Council has opened. I believe and also this debate reaffirms today, colleagues and colleagues, that there is a need to have a serious, responsible debate on the role, the situation of the State Council, either in the context of a constitutional debate or in other forms, here in the National Assembly. The fact is that this case also points out once again that some things are not right, as they are set out. Many discussions with colleagues from all parliamentary groups in recent months or even in recent years have shown that we are not satisfied with the situation as it is. Moreover, interviews with members and members of the national council have shown me many times that the saints themselves are not pleased with such ones. And also representatives of the public, the media and so on. I think that, above all, it is a task, not just a relationship or a problem between the Council of State and the National Assembly. This is the result, not the cause of the problems that arise. There could be some subjective causes, I don't say. But the basic problem is in the very function of the state world, in its jurisdiction, in its way of working and so on. And this is what requires a serious debate if we want to have a situation that will not lead to situations like this and if we want to have a rational and effective functioning of the political system in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Can I close the debate? Then I'll finish it. We're moving on to decision-making. I would like to remind you that the National Assembly, when re-decision is taken in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, must vote in favour of that Act 46 or more. Anybody else want to explain their voice? Dr. Bayuk's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u56	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Like he's already a magician's colleague. Janez Drobnic mentioned at the beginning of this debate, our parliamentary group and I will not personally vote in favour of this law, as we have not voted before. All of these things, which have been the subject of this debate today, are in fact of a secondary nature. We note and regret that the State Council has also not been at the level of a real debate, what is actually going on with our public finances, and that they have probably decided on such a step only because of the amendment already mentioned several times. The fact is that the great coalition continues its flat-rate approach to public finances in Slovenia. Until the Slovenian public and this National Assembly have received a clear report on outstanding obligations to suppliers, until we have a report on the commitments made for payments in the coming years, until we have a clear picture of the conditional obligations that this country has already accepted, either through these laws or through some other or just in the home, we cannot support any budget and we will not support it now. Until we understand clearly what the government is thinking by giving itself very broad and loose limits on the future of the entire country's debt, not only the larger, even the wider, and the whole public sector, until we do, we have reached a serious debate in this national assembly on Slovenian public finances. We will vote strongly against this and, once again, we regret that the State Council has also not been against the real open issue in our society and in our country, and this is the state of our public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u57	Anybody else want to explain their voice? My friend Peterle.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. I regret that the Council of State went on its own as well as the coalition itself, and I do not count on any different attitude towards public finances after this vote. The new president of the country will not be able to drive in a good car by the former president of the country and he is already laughing at the best Mercedes we will see soon after the new year. Here you go. Thank you very much. I'll do it myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-27-SDZ3-Izredna-26.ana.u59	Does anyone else want to explain their vote, or can I put it to the vote? I note that I can put to the vote, in re-decision, in accordance with the second paragraph, the said law. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote, peace in the hall. 72 present, 51 for, 17 vs. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 17.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before I conclude the meeting of the National Assembly, I would like to say something that was partly the subject of discussion by my colleague Jelinčič and some others. This is a relationship between the Council of State and the National Assembly. Let me say that I sent a brief letter Tuesday to the President of the Council of State, Mr Sušnik, and suggested that we meet in the light of some of the issues that have opened up between the National Assembly and the Council of State in recent days. Today I received his reply, where he agrees with the invitation. I think it would be useful if the Council of State and the National Assembly would discuss some of the issues in this way and arrange things for the good functioning of both institutions. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly, and I wish you well over the holidays. Thank you very much.
