ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! We begin the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and cannot attend today's meeting of the following Members and Members: Franz Čebulj, Vojko Čeligoj, Jelko Kacin, Jožef Kavtičnik from 17:00 p.m. on, Bojan Kontič from 3 p.m. on, Yuri Malovrov to 12.00 p.m., Rudolf Moge, Aloyz Peterle, Maria Possonec, Pavel Rupar, Franci Rokavec from 3 p.m. and Andrej Fabjan. Given that the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy has just finished its work and that the report is in preparation - it is not yet on the table as we know it is in reproduction - in my opinion it would be reasonable to start with the 2004 budget and, once all Members have the material in hand and can examine it at that time, they would return to the 2003 budget and then end this matter, the harmonisation amendment and so on. Do you think that - just because of the use of time to not wait for half an hour now - we might start with the 2004 budget. Does anyone object to this proposal? [[Nobody.]] Thank you very much. Then I think we agreed to go to 4. PERIOD OF THE DAY - A DEFINITIVELY SUPPLEMENTED DRAFT BUDGET OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA FOR 2004 The Government of the Republic of Slovenia submitted an updated draft budget for consideration by the assembly. The government representative has already carried out the presentation of the act on the previous agenda item. The supplementary draft budget was addressed by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy. I ask the chairman of the Committee, Mr Cyril Puck, to present the report of the Committee [[five minutes]] . Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u2	Thank you very much. Mr Vice-President, colleagues and colleagues, and a representative of the government! The mother labour body addressed the 2004 updated draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia, prepared by the Government in such a way that the total amount of revenue and expenditure does not change, nor does the original volume of the budget deficit change. However, the structure of budgetary expenditure, namely in the Ministry of Finance, where expenditure is falling, is being changed with the Ministry of Defence, where the volume of budgetary expenditure is increasing to the account of increasing funds for fire safety, with the Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, where expenditure is also increasing and additional resources are devoted to secondary and higher education and to reducing the educational deficit. The expenditure of the Ministry of Culture is also increasing, especially for programmes in culture and for investments in the immovable cultural heritage. There is also an increase in funds at the Ministry of Transport, with 316 million more tolls for state roads for road construction and a billion 684 million tolls for investment maintenance. At the same time, the restructuring of funds within this Ministry also provides funds for the repair and maintenance of the airport radar. The development programme plan, which is adapted or followed by the amendments mentioned above, is also complemented. In particular, it is important to amend the additional appropriations for state roads. The general debate drew attention to a number of issues or areas for which, of course, more resources should be allocated in 2004 and which, according to the introduction, was not possible or possible. Forty amendments were tabled in accordance with Rule 160 of the Rules of Procedure for the completed draft budget. On the committee, we were informed of the government's definition of all the amendments tabled, and since the government did not support any of these amendments tabled, the Committee adopted or supported two amendments, namely the two parliamentary groups, the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Group and the New Slovenia Group of Members, which further increase certain resources in specific areas, namely, the other - it is said - in the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members - to increase funds for the sub-programme of incentives for the conservation and opening of new jobs - this is a matter of increasing funds to help disabled companies. This is a change that reduces in the same part for the same asset user, and the Committee considered this to be a smart or good change, while also supporting the amendment of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, which allocates an additional 150 million dollars to the mining fund of the Republic of Slovenia on the basis of an amendment adopted by the Committee or approved by the law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2003, 2004. The Committee has not supported and proposed to all the other amendments, my fellow Member, that the National Assembly should follow the decisions of the national working body, at the same time, if there was no objection, I think it would be good to vote in the package on such an amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First Mr Ivan Kebrič, DeSUS, then Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Nova Slovenija.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u4	Thank you for your word. We're giving up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u5	Thank you. The word has Dr. Andrej Bajuk, Nova Slovenija. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! 2004 budget. When we first addressed the two-year budget, we warned this town about the futility of building a two-story house when the foundation is not solid. Of course, all these warnings mean nothing, we have actually moved on and proved to be in all the debates we had at the time, and so far, that such an approach, otherwise welcome, is certainly welcome to start thinking and programming our budgetary policy with a broader horizon, has actually been subject to a lot of changes. To deal with this 2004 budget today, I would like to reiterate that such a budget will be subject to major changes again, because these changes are necessary so that we can bring all of this together and bring it into line to the extent that the reality of our time requires. Of course, we are at the threshold of entry into the European Union. The free movement of goods and capital will require our economic and financial policy to actually, because we will prepare things so that we will not be left behind as a second-rate country, but as a member of the European Union, but outside the European monetary system. Of course, the opposition's warnings fall on deaf ears, perhaps it would be necessary or at least interesting for those who are willing to listen to something else, what our future partners in the European Union are telling us about these matters when they analyse our economic and financial situation. Just a few words on the fifth periodic report on the progress of candidate countries for membership in the European Union, which has been published here and available since October 2002. And what do they tell us? They're warning us of inflation. Of course, we are reminded of the high level of inflation and say that this changed mechanism of wage and pension indexation and the deindication of short interest rates is important, but - and I stress here - a late step in anti-inflation policy. Of course, we don't even have an anti-inflation policy yet. About monetary policy. What do they tell us about monetary policy? The aim of monetary policy is to gradually reduce inflation and the stability of the real foreign exchange rate, which, of course, is excluded in the short term. The growth of the M3 monetary aggregate is well above the upper limit of the corridor set by Banka Slovenije as its goal, but it is not a policy of slowing down nominal depreciation of tolar and maintaining inflationary pressures. Such a exchange rate system
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u7	I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u8	[[...]] [[Incomprehensible.]] capital flow, increasingly difficult to maintain. [[...]] Mr President, if possible, I would just forward for a magnetogram, because I still don't know if this is even possible under our rules of procedure. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u9	No! No! We'll ensure peace in the hall. We have rules of procedure. And those who do not just respect the rules of the game - I will suspend the meeting for as long as it takes for peace to be in the hall and that we will move on. Well, now it looks like it will. Here you go, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u10	Thank you very much. Well, about the price liberalisation. Despite progress, price liberalisation - regulated prices are increasingly contributing to inflation, such as their share in the Life Needs Index. The key reason is that the transfer of the control of prices of municipal services to the local level was also not accompanied by the liberalisation of these services. Personally, I would add: the fact that the restructuring of these companies, which would allow for their long-term economy and greater efficiency, is not among the government's priorities. It's about fiscal policy. Under the medium-term fiscal policy, which aims at a fiscal balance, the state has adopted a two-year budget - here we have it - which has, of course, been assessed as a step forward in terms of transparency and supervision of public finances. But - and here it is crucial that we also be aware of this - the credibility of the multiannual budgets must be limited to the extent and number of their changes. Of course, what does a two-year budget do for us if we change it every two months. So just a gesture of cosmetic character, which, of course, enables fine speeches by those responsible for this area. For the public treasury, here I continue the opinion of the European Union, there is a significant high share, more than three quarters of fixed expenditure, making it difficult to maintain the planned public deficit in the face of the cost pressures arising mainly from wage increases in the public sector. Therefore, in order to achieve the medium-term objective of public finances and to increase fiscal flexibility, these pressures need to be reduced. Another chapter, very interesting, is the external trade with the European Union. They note that Slovenia's link with the European Union remains high, although the share of trade with the main trading partners has been declining in recent years and exports to the countries of the former Yugoslavia and the former Soviet Union are increasing. The high export growth in recent years is thus not attributed to the improved competitiveness of the Slovenian economy, but to the growth of markets in the region. I would like to remind my fellow Members and colleagues that in the November report of the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development, which we read in the November Survey No. 11, we find an assessment that is not in line with what we have heard these last days, and that the price competitiveness of Slovenian processing activities has deteriorated and the cost competitiveness has been improved in the short term, and we are warned in the same breath - and here I quote - that the trend and the year-on-year comparison point to its longer-term deterioration. So slightly different from what we hear from the government at these presentations here in the National Assembly and, of course, Slovenian public. Finally, there is another assessment of the business climate from the European Union. This is also very interesting in the light of the discussions and also the hearings that we had in this national assembly, which were reported to have been no questions at all, that they were not in place and, of course, that this is the weakness of the opposition. We will see if you will listen, but what is the assessment of others who are watching, of course, with friendly eyes our reality. There are very few innovative, knowledge-based high-tech companies between medium and small enterprises. Administrative barriers, however, make it difficult to obtain resources for development and research. Progress has been made in this area - adoption of a programme of measures to promote entrepreneurship and competitiveness. Of course, we write nice books. However, there is still a need to strengthen coordination between ministries and public administration and the business sector so that small and medium-sized enterprises are better prepared to join the European Union. Interesting. Of course, in these areas, when we write different policies and strategies, and then their assessments, the government notes that we have - as I have mentioned several times, and to repeat this beautiful word - an implementation deficit. Now we will certainly have a coordination deficit. So another word they can use after they explain why nothing is happening or not enough. I would also like to mention that for this two-year budget we also have analyses of Umarje and Banka Slovenije, as regards the projected economic growth. I must point out that the overall economic growth estimates differ less from the forecasts of the individual macroeconomic factors on which the rate of economic growth depends, and this is all the more so with the uncertainty or risk of government economic growth forecasting. For example, according to a government estimate, exports are projected to increase by 4.6% in 2003, which is higher than the forecast of the economic union, as is the European Union, and takes into account in particular the higher export growth to the markets of the former Yugoslavia, the former Soviet Union and CEFTE. It is worth noting that it exports Slovenia economically to these markets not only with a large trade surplus but also, of course, with guarantees from our country. Forecasts of inflation - and here is the key problem. The government as Banka Slovenije announced that in the planned economic growth and proposed budgetary spending, monetary and exchange policy could be achieved in 2003 reducing inflation, which is a key word, below 5% - below 5%! This is in these documents that we now accept. However, the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development in its autumn assessment predicts that if all these reforms are actually implemented, we can count in a year by 5.1%. Slovenia has [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u11	Dr. Bayuk, I say goodbye. You've announced ten minutes, and this time is up. Then you have 35 minutes to discuss.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u12	So I'm going to the hearing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u13	It is common for this to take place within the ranks, as announced by your parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u14	Allow me, Mr President, to go to the hearing if you'll allow me, colleagues and colleagues.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u15	If that's what it takes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Well, about inflation. Slovenia has far the biggest inflation among ten candidates to join the European Union. Slovenia should reduce this inflation strongly below 4%, because otherwise it will not be accepted among countries with a European exchange rate mechanism, ERM-2, in which it has to operate and fulfil the conditions of each candidate for at least two years in order to be included in the euro area as of 2007. This obvious inability, until now, to reduce inflation by the Government and the Bank of Slovenia will put us in a second-rate position among candidates and at the very least delay the possibility of being involved in the use of the single currency of the euro after 2008. However, the question is if, under the conditions of free movement of capital and goods at the time of entry into the European Union as a second-class member, Slovenia could reach this criterion at all. In our opinion, it would even jeopardise the fulfilment of the other two Maastricht criteria, namely the level of the budget deficit and the public debt and the independent management of monetary and exchange rate policies. But here we only have a few changes. I would like to point out that we have recently read, in Del, an analysis where we were reminded of some statements made in 1997 by a Belgian professor and writer of numerous professional and often quoted professional discussions, often quoted by the author in The Economist and Business Week, who tells us that "Slovakia can reduce inflation in seven years from 9% to 2%, and you need a decisive approach and a prime minister who will say that the government is committed to reducing inflation, and that the central bank should also be directed to this. Very many countries have already done so, and Slovenia is indeed not so special in this area that it could not do so." Well, now we have a Prime Minister to warn us about these things. However, the gap between the words and the actions that we have already been accustomed to, but it only wakes us to see that in the last five years, since we have seven to nine percent inflation, the government has not taken this issue seriously. By its budgetary spending, by forecasting or planning inflation in state budgets for salaries and pensions, it raised inflationary expectations and thus encouraged inflationary spirals. In 2001, it certainly contributed to inflation more VAT increases than government macroeconomics have announced and contributed mainly to inflation expectations in the economy and, on the other hand, did not bring the expected increase in VAT payments to the state treasury. Of course for a variety of reasons. The government, aimed at reducing inflation, should not decide to increase VAT, should at least reduce budgetary spending or reduce the budgetary deficit in the share of gross domestic product. It did not do so because of its political calculus, since it also had to recognise a hidden budget deficit in the previous years in the financial year, resulting in an ongoing budget deficit in the 2002 rebalancing budget, reaching 2.6% at the time of the VAT increase. Finally, as much as it would have been, we'll find out. If it remained in the same consumption and unchanged VAT, the current budget deficit would exceed 3% of the gross domestic product, which would mean that the second maahstrchtsu criteria would be violated. The whole government's attitude towards inflation is the story of missed options - fatally missed options. The government should also cut down decisively earlier to abolish the basic interest rate or move to nominalism. However, nominalism, which is introduced together with an interest rate this year, limits the actual basic interest rate or expected inflation, which means that such an interest rate cannot contribute sufficiently to the reduction of inflation. This means that this year's steps in the field of interest rate reduction are not sufficient. In our view, the government of this mechanism does not do so mainly because it would reduce profits in banks. Thus it is understood from the consultation of the Slovenian Banks Association in Portorož at the end of November 2002, and information was published that Slovenian banks estimate their profits by 40% in 2003. In our opinion, however, the government and Banka Slovenije do not go further in reducing inflation due to the short-term interests of banks - they also confirm the 2003 and 4 budget data. The Ministry of Economy, which, in the framework of the budget programme - I quote here - "encouraging foreign investment and promoting internationalisation, allocates 919 million for 2003 and 1.013 million SIT for 2004. "And why? To offset interest. This is a programme that is of direct benefit to banks and exporting companies exporting to the markets of the former Yugoslavia and the former Soviet Union. These companies export by first securing the Slovenian export company claims on exported goods financed by these companies by the tolar loans leased to them by Slovenian banks. The country, through the Slovenian Agency for Economic Promotion of Slovenia and Foreign Investments, intends to repress the costs of Tolar funding in the budget.This way, the already mentioned increase in exports to markets that do not stimulate the restructuring of the Slovenian economy, as the European Commission also notes in this October report, which I have already mentioned. The government's inability to take real and decisive action to eliminate inflation, with the short-term benefits of banks and bad companies, can have major long-term consequences for the Slovenian economy, which will be revealed as soon as the European Union joins in future budgets. Inflation is also an important contribution [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u17	I'm sorry to interrupt you again, Dr. Bayuk. I'm sorry to interrupt you again. [[...]] Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament! Sitting in this room isn't mandatory, but I'm asking you to knock outside. This is an extremely unworthy act to limit the speaker in his right to say what he thinks. And you're talking and acting like it's not appropriate. There's room outside for this, for cell phones and everything. Next time, I'm gonna break up because there's no point in doing this. If you're not interested, go know. I'm sorry I've been so cruel to you, but it's no different. I'm sorry to interrupt, Dr. Bajuk. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Of course, inflation also contributes to a significant rise in the price of state-owned monopolies or under state control. This is the liberalisation of prices of non-competitive municipal services. This is also a warning from the International Monetary Fund and the European Union. So, what about our inflation? The Commissioner tells us about a programme that we do not know, of course. And today, here in this space, I would like to make it clear on behalf of New Slovenia that we expect and require such a programme to come to this national assembly for some comprehensive treatment. We are very concerned that programmes such as these, based on what we already have and which I mentioned in my presentation, that the government is not actually planning such an anti-inflationary programme, which will really enable Slovenia to enter the European monetary system Since we are already, in the warnings below, we find possible explanations, which do not have the right basis from a professional point of view. We refer to that, on the basis of the effect of the so-called "white balasses, Samuel's effect", Slovenia will be allowed to have a slightly higher inflation, which Umar is expected to convert between 1 and 2%. Of course, we must be aware that the European Central Bank has as its essential objective the stabilisation of prices and that it has set this stabilisation to some loose target, between 0 and 2% of annual inflation, measured according to a specific index, which is not yet completed or technically justified. However, the fact is that Slovenia is not expected to receive any special permission. Why would I get that? As long as the European Union and its monetary system adhere to these objectives if they allow higher inflation to be allowed by Slovenia, this means that someone else will have to lower it further. And even if they let us do that, what do we get out of it? What will be the Slovenian economy, as is the future of the Slovenian economy in such an atmosphere - when we have greater inflation than can actually be sustained for our well-founded and sustainable development. So far, the government has not referred to it. For the first time, we hear this, and I can assure you that such an exception will not be allowed. But if we were allowed, we would be crucial to our future. So we have to lower inflation and we have to lower it strongly below 4%; in 18 months we should be the most out there - moving - about 3.5%. From our assessment that Slovenia will not receive such a permit, we also find support in a statement from the last meeting of the Committee of the European Union's Finance and Economic Ministers this year, which addressed the November report of the Brussels Monetary Directorate for Economic and Financial Affairs and have found out about Slovenia - and here I quote and ask you to listen: "In Slovenia, economic growth is lagging behind the potential, the problem is the persistence of inflation, in the future also the balance of state finances, especially since inflation is also linked to it. The forecasts show a rise in prices that go beyond the objectives of the central bank." So we expect and demand that we get a credible program. I have a personal confidence that the new Minister of Finance, Dr. Marble, will do the same. Whether it is possible or not, it will depend on political decisions that will not be easy. Mr President, as long as we do not have such a programme, any debate on budgets is in fact empty and meaningless. Today, with full responsibility, I can tell you that in the coming months we will get a balance sheet not only on the 2004 budget, but definitely on the 2003 balance sheet. And if there is no balance, it may be possible, on the basis of this very loose law on the implementation of the budget - the government will have to cut down on all these issues thoroughly. However, the responsibility of this national assembly, which the Constitution also imposes on us, is to follow these things, to understand these things and to codecision on these matters. If we wash our hands today and trust the new government to handle these matters on its own, it is also our historical responsibility. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Ferry Horvat, United List. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the government, in a small number, respected colleagues and colleagues! While the apparent conclusion of the adoption of the 2003 budget changes and the 2004 supplementary draft budget is somehow in the shadow of the appointment of a government with a new President, these two budgets are particularly important. They are important for Slovenia's accession or entry into the European Union and at the same time a new team is accommodated as a traveller to the new First Minister and his new team yesterday. Teams - a time that will be filled with challenges, trials and also uncertainties. Changes will be obvious, predicted by reading the latest forecasts of the most prominent world institutions and individuals, with the greatest certainty in these predictions being uncertain. They're referring to the weather forecast. We believe that these two budgets, despite the heritage that almost all the parties here have been present in the National Assembly in various coalitions during the years of independence, except - that I am honest - the Slovenian national parties and the parties of young people who have not been in coalitions or governments so far. Despite the constraints and reduced rates of economic growth in recent years and the still large fixed part of expenditure, this budget - or both - is more development-oriented than the budgets of previous years. This is a quality that promises, even if objectively, cannot meet all the desires and needs, not ours, and allows a solid readiness to join the European Union. Of course, there are still a number of open problems that await new or other governments and coalitions in the coming years. Satisfied with our participation in this coalition, in the government, with our social democratic programming guidelines and actions, we contribute to the content and direction of the budget, which more than ever takes into account the orientations of the economic development strategy, the state programme and the principles of sustainable development - I am thinking of the balance between economic growth, social justice and environmental care - we will support this proposal. It is not ideal, in our view it is real within the framework of the possible and known. It is good that the volume of the budget is lagging behind in the growth of gross domestic product and the expected inflation. The projected one-per-cent deficit rate - it must be acknowledged that a more developed country wants such a deficit. In the composition of budgetary expenditure, it is important to increase the level of education resources as an essential factor of quality development, for technological development, where we have so far been lagging behind, support for increasing competitiveness and the development of entrepreneurship, restructuring the economy as an important part of preparation for the European Union, it is important to increase investment funds, in the road programme, in housing and other purposes which will also have positive economic effects, in a culture that means enhancing the identity and visibility of tomorrow in the European Union and in the world. With these guidelines, we think we need to place particular emphasis on some areas where more emphasis is needed, both in the provision of funds and in the improvement of the policies and activities of the Government, the National Assembly and others. It is also about the highlighted priorities of the new Prime Minister and ministers or ministers in their presentations. In particular, I think of the urgent reduction of inflation while ensuring the conditions for economic growth, which will hamper the catching-up of more developed and the preservation of social security. The further increase in funds and the effectiveness of regional policy, which has been a lot of talk in these days, which has so far not given satisfactory effect to all governments and coalitions, let us be honest, despite a number of activities, in particular in the last period. There has been a more significant increase in funds only in the last three years for this purpose - this is said at the time of this coalition - but the basis in previous years has been too low and in this is certainly one of the basic reasons that we cannot be satisfied with the results. In addition to funding for a successful regional policy, more efficient organisation and integration, including the involvement of European Union funds, which, as we know, allocates 45% for agriculture and 34% for regional incentives in the next year's budget. The new Prime Minister's announcement - not only once in this Chamber - is encouraging - that this will be one of the top priorities of the government. It rightly raises high expectations of strengthening the government team with a new Minister without a portfolio responsible for regional development. Her presentation was promising, but if we are realistic, success will depend on the whole government and on partnership and cooperation with the local and regional levels. It is also important for an effective policy of coherent regional development to develop landscapes as soon as possible, through the decentralisation of resources and competences, in particular for the preparation of development programmes and projects for cross-border cooperation and the like. An even greater emphasis will be placed on active employment policies, in particular to reduce youth unemployment and the hard-to-work categories of the unemployed, including additional surpluses in restructuring. Given the important role of exports as a factor of growth and given the lack of growth in key markets, it will be necessary to strengthen and improve export growth activities, both in traditional markets and in the markets of the European Union, where we see changes in the export structure of this Union, and that is true because we are too focused on a small number of countries and, of course, also on new markets. Membership in the European Union opens up new possibilities here. It is interesting that the Vienna Institute for International Economic Comparison notes that Austria has achieved very good results with its expansion to Eastern and South-Eastern Europe in the enlargement of the European Union. Therefore, it is no coincidence that, in recent times, Austrian economists have demanded, among other things, that their similar establishment, such as our export company, be more engaged in this area. [[This is also confirmed by the data.]] . Economic and tourism promotion will need to be strengthened, the efficiency of the representative network abroad will be enhanced and the important role of the Slovenian export company will continue to be strengthened. In addition to exports and investments themselves, this is also important to ensure better visibility of Slovenia in Europe and the world. In relation to exports and structural changes, more emphasis is needed on services. Data show that the share of export services declined from 1994 to this year. It is important to round up the reform of the state administration and local self-government, including the formation of the provinces. It is very important to continue to promote the social partnership for greater payment discipline and thus to help small entrepreneurs in particular, and it is also important to strengthen payment discipline. It will therefore be important to adopt the amendment proposed in the law on the implementation of the budget. However, there remains a range of open tasks that we will have to resolve and provide additional resources for some purposes in the coming year and even in 2004. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is given by Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party. No, no, no. Mr Roberto Battelli on behalf of the Hungarian and Italian nationalities communities, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will try very briefly to repeat some of the concepts that I have already mentioned in the 2003 budget debate. It's the next one. I repeat and underline. Certain basic activities of the national communities shall be financed exclusively from the budget. Only from the budget1 These are those activities which relate to rights, as defined in the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in legislation and which also stem from international obligations. Where there is protection of national minorities, things happen exactly as defined in our regulation. It happens that when the government presents the budget on an item that finances the structural activities of a minority, which is, say, for both national communities, 200 million, it comes with a proposal that lacks 40 million. In short, things are kind of incomprehensible. I therefore imagine that it is likely that we should conclude a pact whereby these structural activities are indexed in the way that the overall budget is indexed. We have already had such situations, and the national communities, which are aware of when it is necessary to "split" and so on - just as such needs - have not objected in any way to such philosophy. And there was no amendment even to the budget. This is my 14th or 15th budget I'm putting through in this role. This happened and the agreement was that for a certain financial year matters should be reduced. The whole country did it, and so did we, without any objection. So the pact is supposed to be that it's indexed. However, if the operators of these structural activities had a specific project or programme to implement, something that would mean a new quality that would be found to be useful to deliver certain effects and so on - that would be negotiated. This could be agreed and agreed to be financed by additional funds for this or that financial year. In this way, the area of funding of the national community would have been settled, as we have settled slowly in that country's remaining areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr Cyril Pucko, Liberal Democracy [[You've announced five minutes.]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia welcomes the immediate reaction of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which has responded to changing circumstances, economic circumstances, in the European Union and elsewhere in the world. In doing so, it is essential that the basic priorities of the 2004 budget expenditure remain unchanged. On the contrary, greater selectivity and the necessary rationalisation of individual expenditure are even clearer and visible budgetary priorities in the years ahead. The main objective of the public financial policy is thus to: to actively adapt the country's expenditure to the available revenue, thereby achieving a gradual reduction of the public financial deficit; to set a target structural deficit on possible use in: a further defined and limited cyclical deficit of the budget in an unfavourable economic situation, allowing, to a limited extent, the automatic calculation and alignment of cyclical movements and thus the management of the government's anti-cyclical economic policy [[...]] [[We've heard about this in the past few days. What are the directions of the new government?]] . At the same time, public debt financing costs will be reduced, taking into account liquidity, security and profitability criteria. The Liberal Democracy Club estimates that the 2004 budget clearly reflects the determination of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to achieve these goals. In addition, it is essential that the share of public expenditure in the coming years, including in 2004, will be reduced in the domestic gross product. The share of the budgetary and public financial deficit and the public debt in gross domestic product will also be reduced, reducing public debt financing costs and releasing the necessary resources for more ambitious financing of budgetary development priorities. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia particularly welcomes or highlights the following priorities which the government has given special attention to in the 2004 budget: this is a significant increase in resources for science and technological development, the continuation of accelerated investments in knowledge and education, the increase in budgetary resources to promote and support economic activities, the promotion or enhancement of the competitiveness of the economy, the active employment policy and, as a result, the reduction of the number of unemployed, further priorities are several resources, in particular investment investments in hospitals. We welcome the coordination of pensions with the inflation rate, which the government has always followed. A: increasing funds for local self-government. As a result, we expect that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, together with all the authorities in its composition, will monitor or empower all institutions in 2003 as far as possible, that the absorption capacity of the State will be as high as possible, that the influx in 2003 will be the basis for the 2004 inflows and that, on this basis, the proposed changes in the 2004 budget will be so much more favourable over a certain year, and that we will also, in fact, show that we are mature for full membership in the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger, Youth Party Slovenia, has the floor, 18 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. We have the 2004 budget ahead of us. The importance of this document in view of Slovenia's envisaged inclusion in the European Union with effect from 1 May 2004 does not need to be highlighted in particular. Last year, when the budget for 2002 and 2003 was adopted, the Youth Slovenia Party supported adoption for two years in advance, since it is possible to ensure greater transparency and transparency of public finances, in particular investment. At this time, however, we are wondering how we can accept the 2004 budget if it is still not clear exactly how much Slovenias will receive from the European budget and how much less we will be obliged to pay. The draft budget before us only includes estimates of projected expenditure. So we will now adopt a budget that already knows in advance that we will have to change it next year. However, in order to get the 2004 budget rebalancing on the table for the second year, it not only proves that the budget flows between Slovenia and the European Union are disregarded, but mainly that the government has re-planned, in our view, unrealistic economic growth for its revenue and expenditure forecasts. The 2004 state budget proposal was prepared on the assumption of 4.1 per cent economic growth in 2004. We wonder how the government can claim with such strength that economic growth will indeed be so high. Is there not a greater possibility that the index will be smaller, that we will achieve a half percent before 3 and a half percent than 4.1 - as some economists warn us? Hasn't the government drawn up a budget again with expenditure, which it already knows will not be possible to achieve, just to deceive the public in some way? In particular, the level of economic growth must be questioned because the former Minister of Finance has now stated at the Economic Policy Conference that the key challenge of the Slovenian government in the coming years will be to reduce inflation in particular. That this is too high and that we cannot join the European Union with such high inflation, we are also warned by the European Commission in its reports. Under the Mastricht criteria, the new members will also have to meet the criteria of high price stability. Which is certainly not going to be possible with such high inflation. As the process of integration into the European Union is one of the highest priorities of the government, we expect it to try to reduce inflation as much as possible and to approach the percentages required by Europe. The government has also been trying this for years with the so-called soft method of combining monetary, income and pricing policies, and it is failing to do so. This is also evidenced by the annual inflation rate, which fell to 6.7% in October 7.2 November. This does not mean that the price hikes were not but that the decline in the price of oil in the global markets eased this increase and therefore the inflation rate was zero in November. This percentage is already higher than the government forecasted last year. Other transition countries wishing to join the European Union have also cooled down over inflation. While they managed to reduce inflation to an enviable level by decisive measures, these measures, in addition to what they wanted, have also brought a number of undesirable effects, such as lower economic growth, unemployment and the like. It is therefore feared that Slovenia will face a similar fate when it comes to a more determined policy to reduce inflation. Even all Western European countries that are already in the European Union and have low inflation do not achieve such economic growth as Slovenia does. Export, which is the main generator of the Slovenian economy, flourishes with high inflation, but we wonder what will happen then. It is expected that the maximum amount of value added tax and excise duty will be brought into the 2004 budget. These so-called domestic taxes on goods and services are expected to bring about 60% of all revenue into the budget, which is expected to be 4.4 percentage points more than in 2003. However, since these taxes depend on the consumption of the population and also of the country, we wonder whether the changes in 2004 will be such that they can count on such a high percentage of the increase in income. There may be no doubt about the consumption of the country. What about the consumption of the population? Is the amount of income that VAT is expected to bring to the 2004 budget based on increased consumption when the first round of the housing savings scheme is released, so that people will take advantage of the benefits that this scheme offers them and buys and rebuilds apartments and build houses? The problem is that there is likely to be no housing envisaged, since despite other claims from the housing fund, no special accelerated housing construction is observed. As in the second, the largest revenue in the budget, the government expects income from the income of the inhabitants. This appropriation is intended to cover approximately 250 billion tolars in the budget. The economic situation in Slovenia is expected to improve so that, according to the Government, wage growth is expected to be so high that it is precisely the fault of a larger influx from this title. And, of course, from the envisaged amendment of the Income Act, which is expected not to bring additional relief to the population, but, above all, to restrict and delete some of the other benefits that citizens have so far. And, of course, they'll be taxed on those few benefits that they haven't been taxed on. This means mainly work through student services, scholarships and the like. In addition, let me mention that the new system-wide income law promised by the government is still not put into the legislative process and if the government is counting on a new income bill in 2004, it will put pressure on the adoption of this law as quickly as possible. I therefore assume that there will again not be enough debate and opportunity to present different opinions on this subject. In the presentation of the budget, we were able to hear how developmental it is and how much we are going to invest again. The Slovenian Highway Cross should be completed in 2005. And the end won't wait for 2010 or later. Investments in health care are at the disgraceful level of the hospital receiving the necessary equipment only through donations from companies and through charity events. That health care is a mess and that the situation is chaotic, we have also heard from the minister himself. Health reform is therefore urgently needed and changes in the pension system, which we have been waiting for several years. Pension registers are getting more and more debts, fewer and less active residents are supporting more and more pensioners. All of this leads to a situation where the system that the government has put in so much praise will collapse itself. As a rule in the implementation of government policy, it is persistently neglecting the young generation. In the area of pension reform, you have succumbed to the pressures of the largest electoral base, i.e. pensioners. The working generation is already now and will pay very dearly in the future all the votes you have bought through such a policy of a generation-unbalanced pension reform. In investing in knowledge and science, the matter is similar. When presenting the budget, you will be victoriously aware that the funds in these areas are increasing and that these areas are the absolute priorities of all budgets, but all those working in science as well as European comparability show a completely reversed situation. For these areas, much too little and what you are aiming at is spent irrationally and in those areas that do not provide the necessary effects. Thus, gaining knowledge becomes the privilege of the rich. Universities have already noted that they will also be forced to introduce school fees for regular students, as they are chronically lacking funding for the smooth implementation of study programmes. Best scientists keep going to work abroad. However, research activity has stagnated and deteriorated with such a stepmother’s policy, as it simply does not have the basic working conditions. The country's scholarship policy is not changing. Stagnire and in no way takes into account the suggestions that we have been trying to explain over the last two years with our amendments to the funds for the establishment of local community scholarship funds. Apparently, your much higher priority is ammunition for the Slovenian Army, rather than allowing capable students and students to study smoothly and also help the economy to provide in time the necessary personnel for normal economic development, whose main generator is certainly an educated cadre. The arguments that the possible adoption of this amendment would not threaten the professionalisation of the Slovenian Army, since we are only talking about a few cases of 7.56 caliber ammunition or a few grenades for a 120 mm mortar. In the area of increasing resources for defence, you are actively increasing funds as a result of joining NATO, despite the fact that inclusion has not yet been identified by citizens on this important issue. What will you do after the citizens at the referendum refuse to enter into contact? Finally, if I summarize the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Slovenia towards the 2004 draft budget: we will not support the budget, because we do not want to assume responsibility for the budget, which our opinion has not been taken into account, despite the large number of amendments that we have tabled in particular in order to draw attention to those areas which we consider to be the time for them to settle. You are taking responsibility for government parties, who, given how you have set up the budget, are probably already preparing a budget rebalancing which is not said to be the only one, because you obviously cannot or do not want to realistically plot a public financial situation not for three months in advance, let alone for the next two years, as persistently but unfortunately without success, you have been trying for the last two years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Kelemina, Social Democratic Party [[10 minutes]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! If I say my own personal comment first, I don't know if I can speak at all or hope to speak, given that I spoke a little too much last night, but they cut two tires at night. Unfortunately, this is a consequence of our political culture and our political system. And then I wonder if it was the political mafia or the cowards or the bastards, or maybe even someone else, I don't know. In short, one doesn't know if he can speak or not. Anyway, I'm gonna take this right on behalf of the Social Democratic Party. Yesterday we adopted the 2003 budget or the rebalancing, today we are adopting the 2004 budget, an important document for sure. I think you all agree. Not long ago, we also installed a new finance minister, but apparently he has no interest in attending and listening to the adoption of the 2004 budget as the most important documents in these two years, since in these two years he will have to carry out the projects recorded in these documents as the most important minister. In his presentation, he gave some documents or views, but we only received them from Members, members of the Committee on Finance, and no one else. The other MPs are asking me in the bench right now, what do you have for one poll list? This is a document by a representative or a new finance minister, where he presented his specific views and actions that he should have tried to implement as Minister of Finance in these two years. But he's not here today. He sent a secretary of state here, and I salute her, and there's someone else, but he's not. And I don't think that's right. I do not know how he will then provide all the other Members with information, his views and how he will implement this policy he has set up. All right, let's move on. According to my assessment, as far as we know in the Social Democratic Party on these matters, there are basic strategic documents to define budgets for the next two years, if we have such a policy: a regional development strategy, then an economic development strategy, as well as a development programme plan for the years 2002-2004, if I am not mistaken, and then some other strategic documents. However, we note that when all these documents are carefully read, all these documents are not fully implemented in the 2003 and 2004 budgets, 100 per cent or more. If we just look at the regional development strategy, we have talked about this a lot in these days, but despite the fact that some people are praising this coalition today, that it has contributed a great deal to the fact that regional development is given a more important role, a more important impetus, even in a financial sense, of course, but, according to our assessment, this is far beyond what is written for the first time in this regional development strategy, and of course also far from what is enshrined in the law on more coherent regional development. We've already warned about these things, now we don't want to. We would, of course, like this new minister to reorganise in this area, in this area, and to also bring them together from existing staff, which are at individual ministries. We hope that we will get this organisational scheme so that, based on its experience so far, as we know it, we will only make some new organisations again and employ a whole range of new people, and, of course, the effects will not then, because they will work, as we have found yesterday, the rebalance of the balance and so on, to correct various documents. We don't need that. Of course, we need concrete projects, concrete results. That's all that counts. The other is totally nothing. The next very important document is also the economic development strategy. I am firmly convinced that I do not know how many other Members have examined this document. I studied it. I note that these things, which are theoretically recorded in these documents, are not, in fact, reflected in these budgets at the level set out in this strategy. There is also no time for each individual project to be worked out, but then I will explain a few things further. If I just look at one segment. We have also written down firmly, of course, in this strategy, that the funding of municipalities in our country is inadequate. Also in the light of the comparisons of the European Community and so on. It is also stated in this strategy that this document will need to be corrected or modified by the Community funding system. This was also said by the new minister in his short document, which he presented as inadequate and necessary to correct the system. I expect you to fix for the better, not for the worse. Because if we make it worse, no, they can't be worse than they are now. I expect that, in the next year of this project, we will also start immediately at the beginning of the year, and that we will develop such a system of funding for municipalities that will allow these municipalities to, even if the establishment of regions as such does not occur, have sufficient financial resources for the municipalities to, or know, then to, find and provide certain funds for those joint regional and inter-regional projects, without amending the Constitution and imposing on them an organisation as possible, which may not be the most useful in any case. The Community funding system needs to be improved so that we can be on the spot, because there is absolutely nothing to help us if we show, with our macro-economic indicators, to Parliament, Slovenia and Europe, that our macroeconomic indicators are as good as they are, certainly for some planning, for the theoreticals say much, on the ground, and in practice these things do not reflect as deeply as they might notice that these movements are really positive. Where we live, we find that things are getting worse on the ground, not improving. And that's for sure, and the rest of you could see these things. In the economic development strategy, all those living in rural areas or in smaller areas find that the economic momentum of our economy, at least in some sectors, if not almost entirely, with the exception of a pair of towing horses, is getting worse. There is simply no financial means for restructuring, no financial resources for development and such a deterioration of our material base, and then no inefficiency in the long run, because it is absolutely no help to us if we also develop good products if we can make them if we cannot sell them. Because the essence of this is that we cannot sell good products in the European Community today, because we know it is some kind of recession, because the market is full and there is simply no order. And you can't sell if no orders or orders are falling and you need to know how to look for new markets. And that, of course, should be done by our diplomacy, without us going to some high policy. I've said this a number of times, and I'm sure our client is in favor of it. We should give significantly more, as has been said many times before, the importance of our diplomacy in opening doors to us in the economic field rather than going to some very high policy. Time's running out, we haven't made any proper savings programs anywhere, at least we haven't noticed it, so to speak. Perhaps it is being saved in some areas where it should not be saved. There's only one case I'll tell you. Certainly too much is being saved or nothing has been done to improve things in the area of police, law enforcement. These systems are fed - yesterday I showed you this article, I hope you've all read it, where certain people speak, see, "criminalists have gone to pay." We do not have capable people to prosecute crime, we do not have, and more resources will have to be allocated here in the future if we are to ensure that our criminals and our institutions, who have to take care of control in this country, are better qualified. Since there's no more time, I'll be done, thank you very much. Our Group of Members will not support this draft budget.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u29	Thank you. Procedural, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u30	Mr. Vice President! Yesterday, a large number of colleagues and colleagues were cut in front of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, from various parliamentary groups. That is why, in fact, last night's vandalism needs a conviction, not to forge political points. The tires were not cut off by Mr Kelemini, and he spoke on behalf of himself, not on behalf of the parliamentary group, he made a personal comment, and he would like us not to make a policy out of it. Vandalism must be condemned, yesterday, a large number of colleagues, including from our party four, were cut off - also to him, because I am talking about it, Mr Jerovšek, I am talking about not making a political story out of vandalism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u31	I agree that it is not possible to do this, but Silence, please! [[...]] Can we agree to do this outside? Mr Kelemina, look, Mr Kelemina has started with a personal opinion, and I know that this vandalism of conviction is worth it and I condemn it. At the same time, I am taking advantage of this opportunity to point out that the protection around this house is so clavatory that we should have done something smart a long time ago - because it is not the first time, that is, it has happened many times. Yeah, let's say we can't provide security, you know, that's ridiculous. These are contradictions that I find difficult to understand. On the one hand, we have security when we enter the house and X-rays, but I don't know what else to do, and on the other hand, we pay very well to protect the environment, they don't know it, they can't, I don't know, they go home at six or sometimes. In short, these are other things that aren't for this part. But I agree with you, this vandalism must be condemned and condemned. Mr Janez Podobnik, Slovenian People's Party, is therefore the last presentation of the parliamentary group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! I agree, Mr Vice President, with your opinion on this vandalism. This has also happened to one of the fellow Members of our Group and I support your position in full. Colleagues and colleagues, when I represented the position of the parliamentary group towards the revised budget for 2003, a good week ago, I announced in my presentation that it was already a mag in advance. The robbery spoke of two budgets, 2003 and 2004, and I will also present some macroeconomic and other conditions that are the basis for both documents. I'm not going to repeat them today. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u33	Can you please finish this rubber thing outside the hall, Mr. Kelemina? I believe you've been very hurt. Maybe it'll help if we ask those who protect them to pay these costs. Mr. Kelemina, please. I'm sorry, Mr. Squirrel.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much. As I say, I will not really repeat my performance. As it is known, then, after these performances of the parliamentary groups, this meeting was suspended and our performances fell into quite empty space at the time, but that is not our problem. At the time, I highlighted the Group's position that there are some strategic issues that the Slovenian Government will face in the next two years. I mentioned the continuation of the reform of the pension system. I mentioned the need to reform the financing of health care, the further need for labour market reform and the education system. I have particularly touched on the situation of science and research activities. I presented in more detail the view of the Slovenian People's Party on the development-oriented economic programme, then concluded with the need to modernise the area of regional development in the Republic of Slovenia, and I highlighted the view that we expect the government to plan to promote economic development in a way that will not be central, but that it will be at the regional level as much as possible. Then I have completed my approach and today I repeat that the Slovenian People's Party will support the 2004 supplementary draft budget. Some concrete views will then be discussed by my honourable fellow Members. One important news has happened since then, truly essential, welcome, fresh, full of content, and this is the performance of Professor Dr. Marble. Dr. Marble, if I saw it correctly, yesterday he fought very wisely for 60 days. He says 60 won't make statements. But Dr. Marble should be in Parliament because he's a finance minister. But he doesn't have 60 days for Parliament. That'll be his fault if he doesn't come. In his performance, I was once again very attentive to the idea that I would like to make here. When commenting on the issue of fellow Members of Parliament, they were mostly from the opposition, and it was on this Committee of Finance that the opposition colleagues asked substantively good questions. Read this stenogram. That was a great hearing. Here is the truth, in this document is the truth. Dr. Bajuk, colleague Visjak and the others you spoke about. It was also a question, then, to the candidate for the Minister of Finance, what his views on the two-year budgets and on the budgets so far, and in particular, what his views on the next two years, 2003 and 2004. And he said, he said, "I, as a conservative financier, believe that it is necessary for all budgets to have reserves." They don't have the current budget. And whenever it happens to you that you have to fix it back up, because you don't have a backup, you have to neutralize it with an extra debt. This is one of the most important thoughts. When you're okay, you make a supply when you're sick. And since we know that there has also been a rather good negotiating outflow of our negotiating group during this time, 2004 will also be very important when it comes to the issue of this additional reserve. This is where it goes to Dr. Marble, because from Dr. Potočnik's performance it is clear that the 2004 budget will be fairly well closed on the basis of recent negotiations in Brussels. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u35	Thank you very much. We are done with the presentations of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate on individual parts of the complementary draft state budget. As individuals, they are, as we know, a general part, a specific part and a plan of development programmes. We'll follow this order. We are moving on to the consideration of the general work of the supplementary draft budget. Who wants a word? Nobody? Yes, Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u36	Thank you so much for saying that. [[...]] [[It's a mutual conversation.]] I understand, I understand your tendency and your efforts to be expedient, but a few words would be worth speaking. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u37	Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that again. We have tabled several amendments to each of these specific parts of the budget. These amendments show where our guidelines and objectives are and where New Slovenia aims to increase the share of funds for economic activities or for the economy, to promote economic activity, to restructure businesses and all that follows from this restructuring, as far as necessary. We know that we still have certain sectors to focus on. In doing so, we are not stressing the quantity that I have already said several times, the money that is distributed, but how it is distributed. Because the government does not have the most suitable hands: environmental protection, water, environmental regulation, and so on, we are still facing a major flood problem. And then, on that basis, compensation. Opening new jobs, protecting older people, planning hospital activities, investing is a proposal or topic of many debates, paediatric clinics, oncology institute, which has been going on for twenty-five years. If only a prediction of how we will do so is not followed by action, of course there will be nothing. That's why we made the amendments. Investing in high school. Veteran organisations, with the aim of ensuring equality of veteran organisations. One thing to consider, the other not, I don't know how appropriate it is. However, at the same time, I wonder, of course, when we have already discussed the 2003 budget, that before this period occurred, we have changed it. I wonder how many times this government will present the budget balance before the start of 2004. If this is the way it is done, I wonder what the purpose of the budget is in such a way that the budgetary memorandum is sufficient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much. However, I must warn you, Mr Drobnič, this was a debate for a special part. In general, there is only a balance of income and expenditure. But anyway, this will also apply to the next group. Mr. Kebrič, you have a debate on income and expenditure or on specific work. We're talking about three things that are different. You can't do that.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. It's the next one. In these three parts I have predicted it is better for us to speak together because they are directly related. I'd like to point out the following. The main problem is that it has to be planned. Those of us who have had the opportunity not only to study theoretically the area of planning, which we have also seen practically in the planning economy, are aware that every market economy is also planning. And in this general and concrete parts, there is an expression that we have been used in our history of adopting budgets for a certain division of the social product, to which sector, as a percentage, we will allocate a share of the social gross product. If we want, and it is clear that we want, because the situation is changing, that we want to increase the share of the social product for knowledge, for new technologies, for new advances, but we need to be aware that the social product as a whole is always in the index 100 and its distribution, as soon as you increase the share, you need to reduce it to another. I advocate that we really give those areas an advantage, which will contribute more to the increase in the social gross product, but not to the social charge, not to the account of what has been said, but not to the issue of pensions as far as the social sector is concerned, because this generation has not had any opportunity so far, and that which will come into retirement in the next ten years will not have any possibility of any transfer to the second pillar. I would like to stress the following: we agree to agree to agree within the framework of the Economic and Social Council, where such workers, employers and governments work, to find compromises, without intolerance or social or other conflicts and problems. I think it is right that we are particularly faced with the perspective that opens up to us with the inclusion in the European Union in 2004, that in the first years, when we are not yet net contributors, we will make the most of the resources available. The social gross product is distributed differently across the European Union. The European Union does not aspire to a model that all Member States should have the same percentage distribution, but leaves specificities to each country. In our country, this is left to us, so I think it is right that we have a 2004 financial plan, which is the basis for framing individual resources. Of course, he will have to adapt as circumstances change. That is why I think it is right to accept this plan in general work as such in a global way. However, I agree that certain corrections under the amendments are certainly an expression of the specific gravity of the particular force of the particular area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u41	Thank you. Mr. Visjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives and representatives of the government! I must also point out first that I miss the Minister of Finance here. I think that we are accepting a very important document, and as we have already seen, in the past few days we do not have a real interlocutor in front of us and, of course, we will speak in the microphone behind the magnegotra, unfortunately. In the Social Democratic Party and personally in the idea of introducing a two-year budget, of course, we have been lagging behind this measure, because somehow it provides one system of multi-year planning, because we know that a number of investments are difficult to make in one year if we do not think for a year after that and, of course, even on the medium term. That's why I think this multi-annual budgeting is good. However, I would point out that the methodologically applied system is weak because it requires a detailed cut, both expenditure and revenue for a year 2004, which today is in the light of both the revenue side and the expenditure side of the budget quite a vague year. We don't really know exactly what's going to happen. Therefore, the methodology for preparing this budget, which will be revised once again next year and probably rebalanced in the current year 2004, is inadequate and would apply here to the Ministry of Finance to impose a correction to the existing methodology and also to the legislation that will regulate this planning for the year to come. What's with the fog? Practically no institution dealing with the forecast of economic growth can say something tangible for 2004. Here are the assumptions, forecasts, which are, in one way or another, based on accepted and established methodologies, of course, a forecast adopted. The institution is talking about different numbers and each decimal means a lot for the Slovenian budget, the good 5 billion Slovenian tolars is 0.1%, which of course means that the forecast can be half a percent difference which can be a strong thing for the budget. I think it is very, very difficult and ungrateful to talk about both economic growth and these planned revenues. I would like to highlight another important matter that I think should be addressed. These are our legal and fixed obligations that we have for the coming years. Of course, in this national assembly, everything is too easy, without serious financial analysis, we adopt laws, and we are somehow extending this amount of resources, which will be a legal obligation in the coming years and will not be discussed, and, of course, narrow down that manoeuvre space of investment and some soft part of the budget, which can reflect some of the government's priorities and of course some programme of government. That is why it is also followed by this observation that it is very difficult for the government to come to terms with some priorities, because this space, the financial space for the implementation of these priorities, is almost gone. We are faced with one such practical indexation of some events from past years. I don't think that's good. I think we should do a serious audit. We proposed this two years ago and one year ago and again today. To make a serious revision of all the rules that represent this Slovenian budget of this legal obligation and to see what things are covered, which are not covered, what is meant to change with the aim of reducing this fixed part of the budget and increasing this soft flexible part of the budget, so that we can also meet those memoranda or that the government will be able to meet those memoranda of interest after the development or by creating more favourable conditions for the development of the economy in terms of developing new technologies, increasing competitiveness, increasing the share of added value and so on. We are talking about this, and the real numbers are not in the budgets for this, and they can't be in the budgets. At the hearings, I asked quite a few questions to the current minister, but unfortunately I didn't get any answers. In particular, I would like to draw attention to one problem today. This is a problem of tax collection in Slovenia. This problem has, of course, been going on for many years. According to my assessment, the tax service is becoming more inefficient year after year. Mostly because of some negative staff selection in these services. And last but not least because of, in my opinion, the overpowered first man of this service, which no financial minister has ever done, except of course with the exception of the Bajuk government, has hoped to do more seriously. I think that our tax service is becoming, as well as the collection of taxes, and, of course, also some system, a single system of financial burdens on a major issue, is becoming very opaque and ineffective, according to my assessment. This is also evident from the percentage of taxes collected according to the law. I think that a medium-sized company is equipped with financial experts who outrank tax inspectors. And walking on the edge and on the edge of the legality of these companies is obvious. Of course, the result is that those little ones have to pay, for those'small ones', of course, it is necessary, but for the larger ones it is sometimes complicated. I would also expect Mrs State Secretary here to answer two questions. The first question is: What will the government do in the future in the area of changes in the multi-annual budgeting methodology? If she does anything. Secondly: Why, or when, why is it not yet and when will some serious revision of the legislation adopted, which increases the fixed part of the budget in the coming years and reduces this room of manoeuvre that we are not actually talking about at the annual budget? For we cannot and must not talk about the fixed work that is conditioned by the legal obligations, we can talk about this soft work, in which priority we will direct it. And that's a matter of policy. It is not a matter of policy that it takes on the State Council, which is a body established by the Constitution and by law, the thing is that it takes and gives to those who are in that soft part of this something 10%, which is just left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u43	Thank you very much. Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'll be very brief. [[Advertise a member from the bench.]] Does Anderlich have a word? I'd only ask one question that stems from what was said on "hearing." In fact, I would like to ask where in the expenditure balance we can detect or know that it is not recorded now, but I would like to know, or Members, the items that the Ministry of Regional Development will benefit from. Indeed, at her presentation to the explicit question, the Minister replied that she was aware that it would not be possible in the 2003 budget to do anything special, that this matter was just before implementation, but that she was convinced that the 2004 budget needed to be converted. And to the additional question of what the mandate holder had promised in this regard, I did not get an answer. However, if the Minister of Finance were here, I would ask him with great interest, or I would like to hear his answer, what this Ministry of Investment would actually have at its disposal to promote economic development in the regions. To this ministry, the government has now set extraordinary expectations at the confirmation stage in its propaganda. In this ministry, she was somehow getting rid of herself, she was collecting ratings, and now she would actually be on the basis of items, on the basis of what the government has already said, because this ministry is now a fact and I hope that it will not only have an office, a ficus and something else, but that, if it was established, it will actually have some means to promote regional development, in particular so that it can also promote economic development in the regions that are undernourished. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u45	Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Dear fellow Members and Members! I do not know if the Secretary of State will then answer all these questions because I would like to ask a very short question. I am not an economist and I do not understand all these numbers, but I understand very well what the Commissioner has promised here, namely that he will halve inflation for the next two years. See, last night we adopted a 2003 budget rebalancing of 1,394 billion and a few million, and we are increasing the 2004 budget by 7.4%, which is to 1500 billion 498 million. If this mandate holder's promise to halve inflation over the next two years, I ask why we are still increasing the budget by 7.4%. Is this not essentially expected inflation and, in fact, the forecast that inflation will increase by 7.4% in 2004 as compared to the 2003 budget. Or, most likely, if I answer this question on my own, it is that neither the mandate holder nor the new finance minister believe, neither in the balance sheet nor in the 2004 budget. It is said that we accept some blank documents, some piles of papers, of which budget users do not actually benefit the most, may benefit only the paper shop in all these mountains. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u47	Anyone else want a word? Just an explanation, Mr. Sok. We didn't accept the changes yesterday, but it's their turn today. It's not about the balance sheet, it's about the budget changes. However, the balance sheet is for the current year and the 2003 budget will continue to be rebalanced. Thank you. Anyone else want a word? Madam Secretary of State, perhaps? Please. Then we will proceed to the vote on this general work. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Some specific questions were addressed to me. I'll try to answer those directly addressed to me. I will not talk about the opinions and visions of the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister. It's about Mr. Vissiak's questions. I agree with you, Mr Vizjak, that there have been some shortcomings in the system or methodology for preparing two-year budgets. We set things up in good faith in the way we set them up. I remember, the discussion on the Finance Committee was very constructive when we adopted the new JJF on this subject, and somehow we thought that, as it was set, things would go very well. It has proved to be a lot of good things, as well as some shortcomings, and we have a strong intention of amending the Public Finance Act in the coming year to complete this methodology in this sense, as you yourself have discussed that we are not going too far into detail when we are planning for two years ahead, because it is difficult to predict these details precisely, but we are drawing up a two-year budgetary policy, because then it is clear, even when we are going to a detailed level, that is easier to implement or produce further, on the basis of some European countries of course. I therefore count that, if not a change in the budget for 2004, the 2005 budget should be proposed on the basis of amended legislation in this area. As far as marriage or fixed obligations are concerned, for many years we have known that this is relatively large. Somehow we cannot find the will to reduce the scope of fixed or legal obligations. I recall a few attempts by the government in the National Assembly when we wanted to reduce fixed obligations and the result was an increase. I think that the new finance minister has also talked about this, that he has serious purposes to review all legislation in the field of fixed obligations and try to do something about reducing these obligations. I hope that in the coming year this will succeed and improve the structure of the budget in the sense that, as you yourself have said, it will be possible to introduce several priorities into the budget itself, which the government has drawn up over time as its objectives. With regard to the balance issues that have been raised, we will see. Maybe we'll need a balance sheet. I don't see any harm in that. I don't know why the balance, like in other countries, wouldn't be taken as something normal. Why is the balance supposed to be a threat to this country? Sweden accepts two rebalancings a year and sees this as the most normal act. Of course, it is a matter of discussing what this balance brings and where structures change or what changes on the income side and what on the expenditure side. But this is a rebalancing discussion. It is only the fact that the balance is needed, but in fact it does not seem catastrophic to me, but it should become a normal act in this country, because only in this way would it be possible to do what the Members themselves say is wrong that the government has too much power to change the budget. If we do not give these powers to the government, then it is only necessary to agree that we will have a rebalance as a normal act in this country, otherwise very much power must be given to the government. More than we're predicting now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u50	Thank you very much. I would just like to emphasise, once again, what I have already said in my presentation, the nonsense of this work today. Look what actually happened to us. We now have a new government in Slovenia, which is not very new, but which in this area has started its work with completely different, at least statements. As I have already mentioned in the past, we have not heard from the former Prime Minister of the Government any concerns about the rate of inflation in Slovenia. Moreover, we have actually boasted about how good everything is and we have always found some transition country that has a higher one. And that was the subject of this debate. Here we now have one Prime Minister who is supposed to realize that this is a serious problem and how serious it really is. But once again in this area a gap between words and actions. Because this same gentleman sent this document to the National Assembly for consideration. And this document has very strange assumptions. Otherwise, different ones, such as those already available today. Why is all this nonsense? We have now formally done this thing. Since the government had no powers and could not actually give an opinion on the amendments, we made the government confirm, this national assembly confirmed it yesterday, not with our votes, but. Now let's move on. But the point of the problem is to adopt a budget for two years, when we already know that it is unsustainable and will not achieve these objectives. In our assessment, this budget is not in line with the fact that we will achieve a reduction in inflation, as it is predicted or at least a public commitment by the Prime Minister. The new Minister of Finance has not yet had time to present a concrete anti-inflation programme. I understand that. But then what are we doing? And we're going here some planning for 2004 when we know it's completely empty. Dear Madam Secretary of State! I don't care about rebalans like that. This is about scale and what it actually means in its essence. This means, above all, that we represent completely different images when these documents are accepted, knowing that we will change them in a very short time. And we really know that today. In its autumn communication, the UMAR tells us "if we do", "if there will be fundamental changes", and I quote this, "in the case of unchanged economic policies, both in monetary policy, foreign exchange policy, fiscal and income policy, as well as in price regulation policy, inflation at the end of 2000 would reach 5.9." But if we do all of this, I would add other things that I also mentioned, for example, I think we need to start talking as soon as possible about Slovenia, about bank restructuring, we need to force them to actually lower those margins, for which the government has no hearing and continues to operate and guarantees that these gentlemen will live very well. Yeah, of course, bankers are very interesting people. If they're allowed to do that, they'll use it. But there's no listening to that. And then we brag about how successful we are. We know that at best there will be 5.1 percent and 6 months later there will be 3.5 percent. What are we doing? What are we doing? That doesn't make any sense. It is pointless that we are sitting here today to have, I don't know what kind of speeches and speeches about such and other details from 2004, when we know that if the government is to present, in effect, an anti-inflation programme to our society, and not least, at this national assembly, that there will be a lot of change in our country. The budgetary policy will need to be changed. It will be necessary for all citizens to understand what it means if we continue to deceive ourselves that it is possible to solve this in one way or another. I ask you which government in the world and also the government in Slovenia will actually take those steps that are required six months before the elections, if the new government does not present this programme in the coming months, then we can say goodbye to this and we can prepare ourselves for the big problems that we will have so that we can enter the European monetary system at all, or prepare ourselves for very high prices. Of course, shock therapy in this area is always effective in the short term. But the prices are very high. If today we are looking at the possibility of a high social price for the anti-inflation programme, it is only necessary to attribute irresponsibility to previous governments that have not been able to deal with it and have not prepared this society for these things that we must do. In the meantime, we went out of our way to make sure the bankers got a nice margin. Now, slowly, for the sake of slowness, this is supposed to be Gradalism. This isn't Gradalism. This is a conscious policy that does not want to face the reality of our economic problems and our common future. I expect and, I repeat, I also demand that this be achieved, that there will be a clear and thorough debate in this national assembly, that we can also support the government, because it will need some more support so that we can do so in our country. As an opposition, as a constructive opposition, I am ready to accept these things. But I am not ready to tolerate this empty talk when they show us, we will accept documents where there are talk of such and different rates of inflation, when Umar tells us that it will be higher. Where are these decisions in the new direction of economic policy? You can't have them yet. That's why it doesn't make sense that you pressure us to accept these documents because I know what that means. Next time, however, the debate will be shorter and they will do everything at home, as they are used to. However, such a programme that Slovenia needs will not be effective without very broad support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u51	Thank you. Anyone else? Mr. Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u52	Thank you very much. I only hoped that at this time, Mr Podobnik and I myself had also called for a financial minister to come to Parliament, but I see that he is not, and yet I just want to say something. Look, it's true that the finance minister at the "hearing" said he was a conservative politician and a financier or a financier and, as such, advocates a reserve. This means that when we look at 2004 and the 2004 budget, that the expenditure would only apply to a little bit more restrictively, and have some room of manoeuvre for unpredictable things that could happen in 2003 and which could also mean a solution for maybe today and then in 2004 the real revenue shortfall. That is why I also expected because he had time, and we, as the opposition, demanded that this budgetary debate come, when we have a confirmed government and a confirmed finance minister, that this finance minister will also come before us today, through qualified candidates to some of the measures that would lead in terms of this conservativeness, which would lead in terms of cleavage of certain expenditure for 2004 and which would, of course, establish this conservative planning forecast for 2004. But I don't see it. Not only that, I don't see him here either, to comment on how he intends to implement this prediction and the vision of planning for the future. I think that's bad. I think that this is also almost underestimating for us Members, because we expect answers because we are concerned about public finances in the future and we are also concerned about whether we will have to read back to the Minister in two years' time, that he has made a lot of promises and he has made little fights, as we have done at the "hearing" and here at the plenary session. The Secretary of State, Mrs Kamnareva, has said what she can say as the State Secretary responsible for the budget, but she cannot say and comment and advocate or predict the financial minister's strategies in the area of the approach she advocates is a conservative approach. And I am very sad that I do not see the application of this forecast and policy for the future. Finally, we have other problems here. Not only do we have problems with the 2004 budget balance, but we still have a big problem, this is inflation. I would not say that we are expecting a concrete anti-inflation programme, of course. It would be very difficult to support this budget and I will not support it in particular because we do not receive and we have not received any answers to the key questions so far - how to implement a policy that will be healthy for Slovenian public finances in the long term. There's an opportunity when we're talking about 2004 to talk about this to get some explanations to get a vision, not get anything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u53	Mr. Bayuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I would like to mention something else because I listened very carefully to Mrs State Secretary's answers to the questions raised by colleague Vizjak. Mr Vizjak also asked about the tax debts, and there was no answer again. It's not the first time, it's always like that. The problem of even having a problem with tax debts came on a day there sometime in the summer of 2000, coincidentally because it was also recorded in the budget.In 2000, the budget predicted some extraordinary income and this about unpaid taxes. About 8 billion were expected at the time, but only 250 million were actually made in the middle of the year. When we started asking these things, this thing came in a day. The Slovenian public has been faced with this fact that there is one large tax debt. Well, fellow Members of Parliament and Members, you will find nothing on these tax debts in these documents - budgets, not for 2001, not for 2002, not for three and not for four. On specific questions, what happened to it, they told us that it was already in these paragraphs. Well, look, we can go to these different games and, of course, depending on the ability of the speaker, it's found or it's not found, and this thing can go away for a while. The fact is, however, that tax debts in a small country such as Slovenia are a major social problem. How can we imagine that this company will accept that it will have to push a lot into the future because we have to put this economy on competitively firm feet if the government does not guarantee equality before the law, and above all before the tax law. That there are some gentlemen who can continue to play, or companies, a company that doesn't happen to them. And if anyone is responsible for this, it's the National Assembly. We must ask the Slovenian government, now these restored old governments, to actually make this clear and loud. And the fact that there was no answer to my colleague's question again deeply bothers me. Because it is just evidence or the arrogance of this government, which in fact does not only answer this question, but then allows itself to speak publicly that the opposition does not know how to ask questions. Where are they and what happened to the tax debts in the Republic of Slovenia? When will the Slovenian government ensure the equality of all citizens and citizens before the law, especially before the tax law? That's a legitimate question. I demand an answer to that question. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u55	Thank you very much. Mr. Kebrich.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen of the court! It's the next one. We all condemn that today there is not a financial minister present who hears a lot of good, a lot of smart, and especially useful. I'd lay it on his heart: we're all for saving, but on the whole front. Not at the expense of one or the other that the other is more likely to be affected, but one is privileged. The money is lying on the road, and if the finance minister listens to what we're saying today and we're still gonna talk about it, he could take where he needs to go and how he needs to arrange for this money to be collected. If it is up to us, at the National Assembly, to adopt or improve some laws that have holes to make them rich - I will be very specific but not populist - to drive employers in businesses, self-employed with Mercedes and all, and contributions and taxes pay from their minimum wage, because income is given in many other ways to calculate and appropriate. This, if there is a hole in the marriage, is his business to warn us, and his business to make a proposal to improve such a law. We have many of these things, and we have already talked about these matters in this House, and so far no financial minister has taken this matter seriously, because he may have been afraid of it - I will say under the terms - 'rich lobby'. These are the facts, and that is what the citizens are talking about. It is our sacred duty to listen to them and to endure this and to demand that something change in this area. Tax policy - not just to raise taxes. This is the easiest solution - from today to tomorrow. How acceptable this is for citizens, but of course it is another matter. I think he will at least read these magnetograms, which will certainly be a useful orientation for his work. He's been saying it for 60 days. We accept that. But after 60 days, he will be making accounts before this National Assembly for those demands that Members rightly expect not only but also require. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Bajuk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much. I decided to ask more questions slowly, because obviously, when there are more global presentations, no one listens and then you get some global answers. I would also like to remind my fellow Members and colleagues that there is no data in these documents for 2003 and 2004 on what is happening with the Group of the New Ljubljana Bank. The mandate-holder, the former Minister of Finance, replied in one of his answers to some of the questions in this National Assembly: "If you are interested, this is at your disposal." I would suggest that today, through these representatives of the government who are here, perhaps Mrs State Secretary, if you could tell your Commissioner on behalf of all of us: yes, we are interested to send this as soon as possible, to understand what is going on, how the state will actually comply with those provisions of the Public Finance Act, which say that we will use this purchase to reduce public debt. In addition to here, we do not have any statements, a formal document to actually understand what the government is proposing. And speaking of demands, there's something else I'd like to say. The Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia needs a thorough review of what is happening in this tax administration because we are not aware. The only thing we know is that the tax revenues are falling and that, of course, we have some explanations here, why a certain line has fallen, why not, various professional discussions from Mr Bolet and others, and also in the Ministry of Finance's professional documents, explain that this is supposed to be related to macroeconomic developments - the fall in personal consumption and so on and so on. Of course, this is partly true, but it is not the whole explanation. Is it not the opinion of colleagues and colleagues that it is time for us to at least once examine what the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia is actually doing, how effective it is, and if in its work it really ensures what is essential in each tax system, and this is, as I mentioned earlier, the equality of all before the law, and above all before the tax law. I am sure that we are ready in Slovenia, too, and that all citizens and all citizens will be ready to postpone a variety of things in order to put our economy on firmer feet. However, I am also sure that this will apply in Slovenia - we are prepared to continue pushing this wagon, but we are not prepared to tolerate that some will sit on it while others are "mature". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u59	Thank you very much. So I note that it will probably not be possible to continue working today because there is no mood in the largest parliamentary group that is constantly causing unrest and is not interested in these things at all. All you want to know is the vote, obviously. And as President, I must conclude that this is not serious enough, unfortunately - I do not know how many times I have warned today - but it is also rude. But, well, this is more your picture. Can we go to the vote now? Okay, I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the general part of the supplementary draft budget. Let's vote, please. [[It's a technical problem.]] It's not working, you say? Try again and you'll see quickly. Is it gonna be now? Sometimes something jumps. Have you checked, Mr. Wolf? Good. Again [[first]] We vote. Let's vote, please. Of the 51 present, 40 votes in favour, and 9 votes in favour. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I note that the general part of the supplementary draft budget has been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. Who wants a word? Mr. Christmas, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Representatives of the government are warmly welcomed, including colleagues and colleagues. Again, I will also talk in this budget about what I said in 2003 about that part of the Ministry of Economy, which is implementing the law on the prohibition of production, the sale of asbestos products too slowly. Indeed, the response I received from the Ministry of Economics shows that the second year, this is to say, at the end of 2004, will not be applied under a law that will expire in 2004. And people are waiting for compensation. And I think that when we talk about the implementation of the budget, in Article 22, we will have to specifically point out that the Ministry of the Economy has to pay compensation, as the funds of the reserves can also be used for this purpose. The reserve is 3 billion 200 million. And let programmes that will be made by then, but not in 2004, in 2003 - people who have been waiting for a solution to the request for a year when they have been medically examined have been shown to have asbestososis to pay them compensation. Such waiting is, to put it mildly, the worst thing the government and the National Assembly can allow. We promised people, we accepted the law, they fulfilled everything, now they have to get compensation. And that in 2003, despite the fact that it is still in 2004 but only for those who will submit applications in 2003 and 2004. However, for those who have been waiting for months or a whole year, this payment should be adjusted in 2003. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Anyone else before we go to the amendments? No one else. Since no one wants to discuss any more, we are moving on to a debate and a decision on the amendments to the specific part of the supplementary draft budget. They are recorded in the review of the amendments of 9.12.2002. We will lead the debate through individual sub-programmes within the framework of the individual budget user, to which amendments are tabled. We will first vote on the amendments of the parliamentary groups and groups of Members, and then on the amendments of the home working body. So, if we're just going in order right now. If you would like to take a look at the material, a review of the amendments of 9.12.2002. As the first user, this is the user of the Office of the Republic of Slovenia for Nationality. Here we have the subroutine: support to the nationalities. The first and second amendments have been amended here and you have this on the table. Who wants to discuss it? Here you go, Mr. Battelli.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u62	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. These amendments, I'm sorry, these amendments have been changed. The source is no longer that unfortunate forestry service or agency. The amounts are slightly lower, so that the explanation, unfortunately, no longer holds, is no longer about preserving the realization of 2001 and 2002, but rather. The amendments are in line with the concept of the budget and therefore I ask you to support them. However, they apply to both national communities, except in two cases where the amounts are very low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u63	Thank you very much. Anyone else? Mr. Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u64	If I could, the chairman, ask if the government could give its position on these amended amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u65	Thank you. Can the government take a stand on this? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u66	The Government does not oppose the amended amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u67	Thank you. Anyone else? No one else. I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment under order number one. So we're at the office, it's about nationality, it's a subroutine: support to nationalities, it's the first amendment. We're voting, please. Of the 49 present, 42 votes in favour, 1 against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. Let's go to the second amendment. We're voting, please. Of the 50 present, 43 members and Members voted against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] The amendment was accepted. User of the Drug Office - subroutine: Drugs, here's an amendment. Who wants a word? Yes, Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u68	Thank you for your word. I want to explain my voice. I will vote in favour of these amendments, because, as we know, drugs are a major problem in today's society, and these funds are intended primarily for local action groups for preventive action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u69	Thank you. Anyone else? No one else. I'm closing the debate. We're moving to a vote on the amendment in the drug subroutine. We're voting. Of the 51 present, 18 to 24. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 24.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Next User - Office for Slovenian Language. An amendment. Who wants a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate and turn to the vote on the amendment in the sub-programme: Maintaining the Slovenian language. We're voting, please. Of the 50 present, 15 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 30.]] The amendment has not been accepted. The following user is the Ministry of Economy, Subprogramme: Social protection and compensation for the restructuring of production. We've got a few amendments here, three. Who wants a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate and move to a vote. First, on the first amendment in the sub-programme: Social protection and compensation for the restructuring of production. Let's vote, please! Of the 50 present, 6 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting, please! Of the 49 present, 9 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting! Of the 50 present, 11, 38 voted against. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. New sub-programme, Enterprise restructuring, page 5 above. An amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We're voting, please! Of the 51 present, 11 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The following user is the Regional Development Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. An amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. We're voting, please! Present 41. That's not gonna hold. Obviously, we have to vote again. We're voting next time, please! Of the 47 present, 7 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The next amendment is the amendment on page 6, the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, the sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. But here we have seven amendments. Who wants to talk about all seven or each one? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to the vote in order. To make it clear where we are, we are on page 6, the user of the Directorate of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads, the Sub-programme Investment Maintenance and Construction of State Roads. Amendment under order number 1. We're voting, please! Of the 47 present, 11 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Amendment under order number 2. We're voting, please. Of the 47 present, 11 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3. We're voting, please. Presence 45. We are voting on the amendment under order number 3, secondly. We're voting, please. Of the 46 present, 6 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was 6.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Fourth Amendment. We're voting, please. Of the 46 present, 9 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Fifth Amendment. We're voting, please. Of the 47 present, 8 Members and Members voted, 39 against. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're at the sixth amendment. We're voting, please. Of the 48 present, 9 Members and Members voted, 38 against. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. And the seventh amendment. We're voting, please. Of the 47 present, 7 Members and Members voted against. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are on page 10, Ministry of Environment and Space and Energy, new subprogramme: Planning for water protection and management, one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on this amendment. We're voting, please. Of the 50 present, 11, 38 voted against. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 38.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The following user is the Environment Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, sub-programme: Planning for water protection and management. We have two amendments. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We move to the vote on the first amendment. We're voting, please. Of the 49 present, 7 Members and Members voted, 40 against. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the second amendment. We're voting, please. Of the 46 present, 11, 33 voted against. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The following user is the Management Board of the Republic of Slovenia for Mining, sub-programme: Designing a strategy in the field of mining, one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We're voting, please. Of the 46 present, 33.8 votes. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u70	We continue to vote on the amendments. User of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Subprogramme: Incentives for the conservation and opening of jobs, New Slovenia's proponent, the government does not support it, the committee supports it. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We decide on the amendment. We're voting, please. 46 present, 32 for, 11 versus. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 11.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Subprogramme: Programmes of veteran organisations, New Slovenia's proponent, government and amendment committee do not support. Anybody want a word? Comrade Petty Officer, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u71	Thank you. So it's true. The government does not support it, but I wonder why the government does not support why the government does not support equal treatment of veteran organisations. This, in the name of equality and righteousness, would be good for him to arrange it, not to deceive himself. This program is a good program, amendment. Equivalence. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u72	And Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. I am calling to register this amendment for the seventh time, which, of course, will also be defeated for the seventh time, and I would like someone to answer that question, and that would probably be the Ministry of Labour and Secretary of State Znidaršič, why so far seven of the same amendments have been defeated. Like I said yesterday, I didn't get any answers so far and if [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] I couldn't get it myself, so the citizens couldn't get it. [[...]] This is one great shame and it's actually against our constitution -
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u74	Please, if you finish, Dr. Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u75	That's all I'm saying is that this is now, this is the seventh time, and there's probably going to be some other measures that need to be taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u76	Thank you. I'm sorry, it's like this with the scheduled time. Your time for the task force is up. Anyone else want a word? Nobody. We'll make a decision. We're voting please. At 48, the vote was 12, at 36. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment didn't get any support. Subprogramme: Scholarships. The proposed Youth Party, the Committee and the Government do not support the amendment. The young people's party, unfortunately, you haven't checked in and you don't have the time. I close the debate. We're going to the vote. An explanation of the voice? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. I will support this amendment. I also call on everyone else to support this amendment. This is about scholarships, establishing scholarship funds in local communities. The argument, as expressed on the committee, that this would endanger the Slovenian military's professionalization project, does not hold true even below the point. We also saw this yesterday in the vote on certain amendments where we took these items. And one more thing. I haven't found any explanation in the rapporteur for what these funds are going to do, so please if I can get that answer today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u78	Only the explanation for the vote was possible. The debate is closed. We'll decide that. An explanation of the voice? I'm calling off the vote. The result will not apply because before I put it to the vote, he asked for the floor to explain the vote of his colleague Podobnik Janez. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u79	I won't support the amendment. I have already said at a meeting of the Committee on Finance, when I was an alternate Member, that the Member is always in a dilemma when he receives scholarships and ammunition. But the government is responsible for both scholarships and ammunition. And we should look for other sources. I won't support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u80	Thank you. We can now go to the vote. We're voting, please. There's 46 present. The vote was 12, against 27. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 27.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Subprogramme: Social protection of disabled persons, proposer Social Democratic Party. The government and the committee do not support the amendment. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I'm making a decision. We're voting, please! We're voting! A little more attention, please. There must be more of us in the hall. We'll re-vote. We'll vote next time! 12.47 we will vote for the third time. Ten minutes' rest.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u81	Ladies and gentlemen, 12.47, this is the third time we've voted. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the third time we've voted. I don't know if there's any new rules to this, but we're going to be voting any minute. So we are on page 13 and 14 — the social protection of the disabled. An amendment. This is the third time we've voted, please. Of the 56 present, 14, 36 were against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 36.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Subprogramme: Social protection of the elderly. An amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Yes, I'm calling off the vote. Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. I'd like to explain my voice briefly. I will vote for this amendment, of course, because it is logically understandable. Indeed, the 2003 funding in 2004 is actually falling for the protection of the elderly, although we know that the number of older people is increasing. This is completely illogical by the government not to support and I do not know how these social security institutions will also be maintained. Absolutely this government proposal, which is budgetary, does not work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u83	Thank you. Can we get to the vote now? Yes, you can. We're voting, please. Of the 57 present, 14,40 voted against. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] The amendment has not been accepted. Ministry of Health, Investment Investments in Hospitals. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? But now I'm Valentin Pohorec? My last two, three votes have been attributed to Mr Pohorc, I hope there is nothing wrong. We didn't replace the card. I'm sorry. So who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move to a vote. Voice explanation, Mr. Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u84	From words to deeds, says this amendment, for which I will vote and confirm it. Investment investments in hospitals, in a pediatric clinic. From words to actions. So a lot of words from the ruling coalition, how it's going to be built. That's an act. If we're going to do this, then we have to back it up. I'm expecting backup. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u85	Thank you. Can we get to the vote? We're voting, please. Out of 58 present 15 for, 37 versus. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are on page 15, Ministry of Education, Science and Sport, subprogramme: Scientific Research in Public Research Institutions, one amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving to the vote. We're voting, please. Of the 58 present, 15,37 voted against. [[The vote was 15.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. It's a primary school subroutine. Ladies and gentlemen, here I remind you of the new text you have on your hands. Don't look at the one that's in this remake, but look at what's on your special sheet. Who wants a word? Mr Battelli [[This is a proposal from the Italian and Hungarian national groups.]] Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u86	This is one of the amendments I spoke about earlier, and it is the same as the two that have already been adopted in the line of the Nationality Office. I'm asking for your support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u87	Thank you. Anyone else? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting, please. 52 present, 30, 13 versus. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 13.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Subprogramme: General, secondary and vocational education, we are on page 16. And there are several amendments, so there are three. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We move on to decision-making, in order, we will first vote on the amendment under order number one. [[we're on page 16]] . We're voting. Out of 51 present - 9, 33 versus. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on the amendment under order number two. We're voting! 55 present. 7 for, 39 for. [[The vote is seven.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are voting on amendment number three. We're voting, please! 52 present. Ten for, 35 for. [[It's 10 for the vote.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Subprogramme: Help in secondary education. An amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on this amendment. We're voting, please! 53 present. 13 for, 33 for. [[The vote was 13.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Subprogramme: Study aid. An amendment. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting, please! 48 present. 12 for, 31 for. [[The vote was 12.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Youth Office, Subprogramme: Youth programs, page 19 to make it easier for you. We have six amendments here. Six amendments. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. First, we are voting on the first amendment, page 19, of the Youth Programme sub-programme. We're voting, please! 48 present. 11 for, 31 for. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're moving on to the second amendment. We're voting, please! 52 present. 11 for, 32 for. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 32.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We vote on the third amendment. We're voting! 52 present. 11 for, 33 for. [[The vote was 11.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Fourth Amendment. We're voting, please! 52 present. Nine in, thirty-six in. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Fifth Amendment. We're voting, please! 51 present. Nine for, 35 for. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 35.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. Another sixth amendment. We're voting, please! 48 present. For nine, to thirty-one. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 31.]] The amendment has not been accepted. We are on page 22, user of the Ministry of Culture, subprogramme: Other programs in culture. We have an amendment here. Who wants a word? Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u89	Thank you very much. I don't know if I specifically warned you that this was an amendment, yes. Just a moment. That this is an amendment, a new one. It's not the one in the back of the paper, but it's on a special paper sheet. I'm sorry if I didn't specifically warn you about that earlier. But Mr. Secretary of State has explained the matter. Mr. Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, it's about a change of amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u91	That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u92	And the source is the Ministry of Finance, it's a changed source, it's not with the Ministry of Agriculture. That is why the government has previously said that it does not oppose this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u93	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Strnad.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u95	Yeah, that one's not up to date.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u97	It is now said that it will be quite clear what the government's position on this amendment is. Please, if you could just say it again. Well, I would like to know if the government supports this because Mr Battelli's opinion that the government supports it has now been said no to the old text. I want to know what the government's position is. Madam Secretary of State, perhaps.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u98	Thank you very much. So, Mr Battelli's amendment is not opposed by the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Anyone else? If not, I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Let's vote, please. 53 present. 49 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have thus concluded the debate and decision-making on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the specific work completed - no, this will not be right. Yes, on the specific part of the supplementary draft budget as a whole. We are therefore deciding on a specific part of the supplementary draft budget in full. We're voting, please. 52 present, 45 for, 5 versus. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the complementary part of the draft budget is a specific part adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. This is now the last part of this set, the development programme. Who wants a word? Nobody. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision-making plan for the development programmes. We're voting, please. Of the 52 present, 43.4 votes. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against four.]] I note that the development programme plan has been adopted. We have completed our decision on the individual parts of the supplementary draft budget, so I ask the representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, of course also the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, whether the draft state budget for revenue and expenditure and for parts is coordinated? Please, Madam Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much. In view of the amendments adopted, therefore, the 2004 draft state budget is not harmonised in general and specific work, and I propose that the Committee on Finance adopt the harmonisation amendment. We need about half an hour to prepare the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u101	Does Mr. Pucko want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I suggest, given what has just been said, that you take a 45 - minute break. For a solid lunch.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u103	Excuse me, Mr. Pucko. Perhaps it would be good to know whether there would be a committee meeting at that time?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u104	It will when we have an amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u105	I mean, when and where? Right after lunch or what, I mean. Excuse me?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u106	1:30 a.m. big salon.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u107	So 13.30 a large salon, but we could continue to work until then because we have some work to do with the 2003 budget. Is it - you formally proposed a vacation? 45 minutes' rest. So break 45 minutes, 13.50 continue in this room.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u108	Colleagues and colleagues would continue to work on the following schedule. We'd have moved on to five. agenda, proposal for a law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2003 and 2004. In the meantime, you will receive a multiplicity and at the table of the 2004 harmonisation amendment. And then we will end up deciding on the 2003 budget, 2004 budget and ZIPRO. I give the floor to a representative of the Government to further explain the bill. Please, Secretary of State, mag. Helena Kamnar to take the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Members, honourable Members. At the time of adoption of the budget for the two years, the law governing the implementation of the budgets for those two years should also be adopted. That's why this law is before you. Its content is set out in the introductory articles. In fact, the content does not differ significantly from past laws. The only important difference is that this time, in fact, it contains only those provisions relating to the implementation of the budget for the two years. It does not contain, as we have been accustomed to in recent years, provisions which fall within another law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u110	May I have your attention, please? Let's not disturb the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u111	In particular, I am referring to a chapter that dealt with the sale of state property, which is now in the Public Finance Act. The law lays down the structure of a specific part of the budget, assigned revenue, expenditure, rules on the reallocation of funds, the transfer of direct spending rights over the years, the extent of government debt and guarantees and the whole public sector, and certain specificities regarding the availability of remuneration resources. The amount of eligible expenditure for 2003 and 2004 is also set in accordance with the Community Financing Act. To a greater extent than before, the law before you is extensive in the work that sets out the assigned revenue and expenditure of the budget, which is mainly used to finance investments and other needs in the field specified in the law itself. This is about Articles 7 and 8 of the Law. These revenues, of a nature intended, are revenue from a fee for the decommissioning of used motor vehicles, revenue from the Mining Act, taxes on carbon dioxide emissions and water rights and water reimbursements under the Water Act. In doing so, I would like to draw attention to the specificity set out in the law on the implementation of the budget this time. This is the fact that the dedicated revenue of which the resource is intended to cover the overall budget expenditure and the part which is intended for a specific type of expenditure shall be allocated in such a way as to ensure first the budget is charged and then to provide expenditure for the supply of expenditure rights which are the intended source. This is simply because budget users who are in charge of recovering these funds and at the first stage also planning their scale often do not do everything to recover the planned amount, so we wanted to encourage budgetary users to do so to the full. We believe that this measure will work. The second part of the law, which is important, is the means of purchase. This part is linked to the sale programme of real and financial assets or predominantly financial assets. Some companies that have been in this year's sales programme have not been realised, some sales have been made, and we plan to see this happen in the next two years. This is in particular Talum or capital investment in Talum, Vrhnika leather industry and Luka Koper. The sale, i.e. the purchase of these capital investments, is specified in Article 8 of the Act. Thus, there is a partial change in the principle of redistribution of spending rights, i.e. this is the power of the government to implement the budget. In the Government's view, we are establishing a more transparent system and, above all, a less complex system, which, at the same time, in the global context, means strengthening the powers of the government by the National Assembly, but on the other hand, allows greater flexibility at the global level of the budget. Just as in 2002, we are holding back the possibility of an increased level of indebtedness in cases where economic movements would prevent the implementation of the budgetary expenditure approved in Parliament. This power is given to the Government to the same extent as in 2002, i.e. up to 15 billion tolars. The total amount of debt in 2003 is estimated at 214.5 billion tolars, of which 38 billion tolls to cover the budget deficit. The remaining appropriations from the commitments will be earmarked for the payment of principals. A total of EUR 270.6 billion is foreseen in 2004, of which EUR 57 billion is a net debt. The flexibility of the budget, which is linked to the adoption of a two-year budget, which will allow us to implement the budget for the first year of entry into the European Union in accordance with the rules also provided for European funds, may also be worth stressing. This is related to those provisions of the law on the implementation of the budget, which means that budget users can make public calls for all projects, including for the value that will follow in the coming years and conclude contracts for multi-annual investment projects. I think these are the main points. Perhaps it is only with the assistance of the amendment or as a result of the amendment of the Committee on Finance, which has amended the provision on payment deadlines, that I think this law will make an important contribution to improving payment discipline. That's why I suggest you support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u112	Thank you, Secretary of State. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. Does the chairman of the committee want to present the committee's report? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and distinguished colleagues and representatives of the government! The working body has held a broad and substantively rich debate on the proposal for this law, and the committee proposes to the National Assembly the adoption of several amendments to improve the content of the law. This is mainly about the amendment that the Secretary of State has just spoken of, which, as if we knew at the time, announced that something good was going to happen here - given the announcement of its programme for the Minister of Finance or the current minister, we have seen this earlier that it would be good. And based on his scale in defending the improvement of payment discipline. Personally or personally, we believe that it is possible to even go even further to tightening the payment deadlines by the state budget. Maybe I'll talk more about it in the debate. At the same time, on behalf of the Committee, I propose that the assembly support the amendments proposed by the Committee because we believe that they significantly improve the content of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u114	Thank you, chairman of the committee. I give the floor to the Group of Members to present the views of the Group of Members. First of all, the DeSUS Group, Ivan Kebrich, please - which is cancelling. The New Slovenia delegation group, Dr. Bajuk - has the word mag instead. It's a trifle. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u115	Dear colleagues and representatives of the government! The Law on the Implementation of the Budget for 2003 and 2004 - in reviewing this Act, we note that we should make the same or similar comments or amendments as we have made to such laws and their amendments for the previous years, 2001 and 2002, which are considered irrelevant to the requirements of the great coalition or their representatives of the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee. In the general debate on the issues which remain inadequately resolved in this law, in particular in respect of compliance with the rules of financial clarity, transparency, the new rules of procedure on the Committee could not even be met. The law should prescribe that the Government should propose certain budgetary statements or reports which should not be an integral part of the budget documentation and also be an integral part of the budget implementation reporting. This year this year, the International Monetary Fund found out when it first checked the fiscal transparency of our public finances. Let me just remind you of some of them: a report on outstanding obligations to suppliers, a report on commitments made and conditional obligations. For example, this latter, renewed contingent liability is the amount of guarantees to banks for loans granted for the Tama recovery failure. Since this did not pay them off, the State budget did not have the planned resource under the name of contingent liability in the State budget, simply this expenditure was not shown. This budget expenditure is not part of this budget deficit but is shown as a newly approved loan to Tam in bankruptcy. And since we do not know these types of data, we cannot, among other things, calculate how much our budget deficit is according to the European Union methodology, which is different from our budgetary or accounting methodology and, most importantly, we do not know how much we have spent, but has not yet been paid and has an impact on our financial non-discipline in our economy. But we do know what it is like to have a payment discipline in the economy and how terrible it is for businesses to operate and how they fail. The one who won't listen to me would ask him to get out so he doesn't mind. Otherwise, he can calmly close his ears, for some are likely to want to hear. And a warning about that. Other candidate countries have been showing their budget deficit for the past two years and also publishing it according to the European methodology. Our government is supposed to trust this information only to the EU institutions, not to our Members. This warning can also be found under note, in the Economic Mirror of Umar. And if, yesterday, 19.12. on public television, the press conference of the International Monetary Fund was properly reported, then the representatives of the IMF could not have obtained this data, explaining that the current employment with the replacement of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia was the reason. This is, of course, an explanation that clearly indicates fiscal impossibility and data adaptation. The transmission of such data does not require ministers, not State secretaries, but independent officials of public budgetary accounting. At this meeting of the National Assembly, we should also repeat the amendment to the Article, which states that, to the extent that the budget is indebted, no expenditure paid or financed under the Basic Development Programmes Act - TRP should be considered. We did not give it because the government or its finance minister said that it was so established in 94 years in a special law, the law on TRP. But what does this law have to do with systemically regulating accounting according to our budget reformer 99 or 2000? Nothing. It is not because of this kind of concealment in budgetary spending that we have been warned by the International Monetary Fund. Thus, of course, Falcone does not need to be shown as budgetary expenditure. We don't even know when it's gonna be necessary. I've asked the Minister of Defense twice. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Mr President, if you allow me to [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u116	Finish the thought, five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u117	I think there is still some time available for the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u118	There are no reports of others for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u119	Yeah, well, then the rules of procedure limit me to tell you the rest of the stuff.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u120	Not the rules of procedure, but the application for discussion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u121	So I interrupt this on behalf of the Group of Members and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u122	Thank you. I give the word "magic." A visionary for the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. He's not here. And Ivana Bozič, the position of SLS.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u123	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So the Budget Implementation Act will be supported by our Group of Members for both years 2003 and 2004. The law is very abundant, but we have also received materials where the Committee on Finance has changed it considerably and I think it has been very well changed, so we will also support these changes in the Group of Members, as well as, normally, the amendment that all four coalition parties have given to Articles 7 and 8. In fact, we are most pleased to see the change in payment deadlines in the burden of the state and municipal budgets adopted by the Finance Committee. We've deleted the word "at least" so now the payment deadline is 60, 30 and 90 days. And I think if this really happens, it's one of the steps to greater financial discipline in the whole country. Secondly, the budget funds I spoke about in both 2003 and 2004 budgets, namely the budget reserve, are used for earthquake recovery and for the payment of drought damage from 2000 and 2001. But I think and I suggest that this is also used for payment, for overpayments made by the planned Ministry of the Economy, for asbestos, or for compensation to patients under the law banning production, the sale of asbestos products. [[...]] I don't think that if it comes out of the reserve, no one in the National Assembly will ever criticize it. The Budget Implementation Act also makes clear the level of guarantees that can be made in 2003 and 2004 by 90 billion sieves and, despite the fact that we were a little dissatisfied on the Committee, in VI. a section where the amount of appropriate consumption per municipality received is 85 thousand 948 tolars in 2003 and 89 thousand 902 tolars in 2004. On the board, we thought it was small, but the government, the ministry, convinced us that was enough. As I have already announced, our parliamentary group will support the implementation of the 2003 and 2004 budget. And I hope that the government will carry it out as it was written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u124	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. I give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. Who wants to discuss it, please? [[Nobody.]] Can I close this debate? And we would go to a second reading of the draft law on budget implementation and at this stage, at this point we would break this item of the agenda, because we will first adopt the budget for 2003 and then 2004 and then the law on the implementation of these two budgets. But since we're waiting for the 2004 budget harmonisation amendments, we're also going to skip this time, and we're going to go to 6. PERIOD OF THE DAY, PROPOSAL OF THE PROGRAM OF SALE OF THE STATE AND FINANCIAL REAL INVESTIGATION FOR 2003 AND 2004. The draft programme was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give my word to the government's representative, Master Helena Kamnar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u125	I suggest that there is no introductory presentation of this document, because I do not think that it is necessary and that we should, in fact, devote time to the debate on the individual points of this document. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The proposal for a programme was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. There is no rapporteur, and I therefore assess that he does not wish to present the report of the Committee. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Novi Slovenije Group will be presented by Dr. Jožef Bernik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u127	Thank you very much, Madam President. Government representatives, ladies and gentlemen! There's been a lot of talk about this, and there's no words to lose, because since Bled's villa is no longer on the sales list, things have gotten a lot easier. We will support this proposal and we will wait to see what else the government will pass on next time to sell. We would like the government to be open to all sales, including capital, and explain things to us from behind. Unfortunately, we don't usually get that. So, we will support this proposal, and this concludes my presentation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Party's parliamentary group is to be presented by the mag. A visor that's not there. I give the floor to Mr Janez Podobnik for his presentation. She doesn't want to. We have therefore concluded the presentations on the positions of the Group and are moving on to the debate of Members and Members. Mr Ivan Kebrich has the floor first. She doesn't want to. Dr. Andrey Bajuk. Not at all. Mr. Sasha Patch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u129	Very briefly. We will not support the programme for the sale of state property in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich. You don't want to. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. He's not here. Mr. Ivan Christmas. Mr. Christmas, you want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you very much. I therefore conclude the debate on the proposal for a programme. We are moving on to the debate on the amendments tabled, to be led by the amendment review of 20.12.2002. Could I have your attention, please? Today you received a review of the amendments to the proposal for a programme for the sale of state financial and real property. Right now, I just want to wait until you get another motion from the amendment proposed by Blaž Kavčič. I'll wait long enough for the amendment to come to your table. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members, I think it is time for us to move on to the bench of the amendment. Please, let us now focus on the review of the amendments to the proposal of the programme, which bears the date of 20.12.2002. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment to point 2.4.2.2. - The new Maribor credit bank, d.d. I ask, investors are four parliamentary groups. [[..]] Anybody want a word? Nobody. I conclude the debate and move on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 39 votes against 5. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I am putting forward an amendment to point 2.4.2.3 in the debate. - The postal bank, d.d. The candidates are the same parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision on this amendment. We're voting. There are 47 of us present. 41 votes against 5. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall place the amendments tabled in the table of the divestment programme under order number three 2.3.2.4 in the debate. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That's why we're moving on to a decision. The proposer shall be the committee. We're voting. There are 51 of us present, 42 votes against 6. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against six.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. In the debate I am putting an amendment under four, this is an amendment to a new last paragraph at the end of the programme text. Anybody want to talk? No, that is why I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. 42 votes against 5. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now moving on to the debate on the amendment that you just received on the bench, which is proposed by Mr Blaž Kavčič. Anybody want a debate? No, that's why I'm closing it and moving on to a decision on this amendment. We're voting. There are 50 of us present, 39 votes against 7. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And the last amendment to the title. Anybody want to talk? No, no, no. I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 44 votes against 4. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the sales programme for state and real property for 2003 and 2004 as a whole. We're voting. There are 52 of us present, 42 votes against 7. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to the last two left. On the day-to-day basis, this is a defensive proposal for a law on amendments and supplements to the health service law, an urgent procedure. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. With regard to this law, the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal for a law should not be considered further. I give the floor first to the representative of the government. Let's just wait for him to join us. Members, I think we can proceed now. We also get a harmonisation amendment on the bench. We will also be able to carry out the vote on the harmonisation amendments in a smooth manner. We are therefore continuing to consider item 2 of the agenda, which is the urgent procedure by considering the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medical Services. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Minister, I warmly welcome you and ask you if you can provide an additional explanation for the bill. Dr. Dusan Keber, Minister of Health, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u131	Madam President, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u132	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u133	Madam Members and Members of Parliament! [[...]] The Labour Relations Act, adopted this year, has reiterated the provisions of the current law that the right to a day’s rest is for every citizen in that country 12 hours. In contrast to the existing law, he added an exception to certain professions which were known to have been known in the past and it is also known today that the 12-hour daily rest provisions cannot be taken into account unless such professions become part-time work. We have in mind, in particular, a medical profession, which not only can't get into the tourist work, because of a well-known small number of doctors, but we don't know the case anywhere in the world for doctors to work on the tour. Knowing that the new law would enter into force on 1 January and aware of the fact that the illegal situation had lasted since 1992, the amendments to the Law on Medical Services in June 2000 had proposed a tightening or reduced possibility of rest for doctors, not every 12 hours, but only after 24 hours of continuous work. Of course, within this 24-hour period of 16 hours, it's on duty. On-call also includes so-called ineffective hours in which a doctor may rest. In this law we have therefore also defined what the concept of duty and everything else is known to you from the process of adopting this law. We knew that even 24 hours in health care was difficult to reach, but there is always the right of an individual to rest. The question is, how long can a doctor work continuously to avoid the issue of the possibility of a mistake at a time when he is overworked? Let me also draw your attention to the debates at the time of the sentence, which have discussed this aspect in particular. In the "24 Hours" provision, we have therefore added some articles on the feasibility of this, in particular the beginning of work in the afternoon, in one fifth of the cases. Let me mention that some departments or hospitals have been able to fully implement this provision. For example, the hospital in Nova Gorica has been fully in compliance with this law since June this year. However, towards the end of the year, despite our active work to reduce the number of duty stations and some other organisational proposals, some smaller departments in the country are unable to implement this provision, even though, as I said, the conditions for doctors are already tightening. It has been shown that these sections would best fit the existing situation. The current situation is, if I say it simply, the work of the morning, the duty of duty in the afternoon and at night, and the work of the other day again, a total of 32 hours. Since on 1 January the time will come when it will be necessary to switch to the provisions of the new law, this means that doctors in such departments would go home in the morning, because 24 hours are running out, so there is a possibility that one job would not work in such a section - one station, that may be an ambulance, that may be less doctors in the department, if it is a hospital - so we have proposed this article, an amendment to this article by emergency procedure, which introduces the possibility of working up to 32 hours. We have made sense of the fact that these 32 hours necessarily mean an intermediate period of duty of up to 16 hours. So before you is an article that allows for the implementation in smaller departments to make sense, while it is important to be aware that in the future it will also be necessary for healthcare professionals and doctors to reduce this burden; that the future is certainly not the same as some atavism, but that the doctor can work continuously for 72 hours, while special appointments are made, for example, for bus drivers, trucks, on a completely different working time. So this is the reason for this law, or amendment of the law before you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u134	Thank you very much. This is followed by a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by mag. Janez Petty Officer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u135	Hello again! Allow me to present the position of New Slovenia to amend the law on medical care. We received a rapid proposal, following an urgent procedure, for changes that were not coordinated between the social partners, were forcefully coordinated. The reason, however, was to prevent the severely remedial consequences of the law that we adopted six months ago. Thus, this law was adopted following the amendment of the Labour Relations Act, so that it was known already when we adopted the previous law and submitted by the Government for adoption in order to anticipate these consequences. It is therefore quite irresponsible that we are now discussing each other one week before the law on working relations is in force. However, it is not possible to continue to do so. This marriage and the consequences of the room have been under-examined. This is opposed by the union, the chamber and the medical association. We cannot support such a bill and a way of adopting it in the new Slovenia. Therefore, we propose that the National Assembly at this plenary session adopt such a proposal as was formulated by the Home Committee, that the text of this Act be adopted as inappropriate for further consideration, which means that the Government, with the participation of those who are needed in cooperation, namely the social partners, prepare a text providing adequate health care for patients and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. So clean for a while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u136	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Stanislav Brenčič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u137	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. In our group, we cannot ignore the fact that the content of the amendment to the medical service law is such that, in view of the situation which the government, especially the lack of doctors, is impossible to implement in a whole range of health areas or that the law as such will be violated because, given the ethics that ultimately dominates the profession of a doctor, these doctors will have to do the work in accordance with their previous attitude towards work in advance and the law as such. Therefore, it is also worth understanding a number of arguments that have arisen on the part of interested institutions such as the Medical Chamber, such as the Fides Trade Union, such as the Medical Society of Slovenia, such as the Association of Health Institutions of Slovenia. The arguments must, of course, be heard and taken into account. However, in view of the situation we are in, we believe in our parliamentary group that it is virtually impossible at this point to remedy the situation in such a way that it is entirely appropriate. We are aware, however, of the fact that, as far as the latest novel we are correcting the previous novel is concerned, we do not accept it, realize it, do not interfere with the medical service law, that we have been horrifyingly exposing the health officials or directors who are essentially in charge of legality. They are responsible for legal functioning and legality as a whole in their collective. The fact is, unless we accept these novels, they are practically breaking the law with all their knowledge of 1.1. They are essentially in violation of the law and, as such, they are powerless to influence it. That is why we will vote in our parliamentary group against the proposal for a decision submitted by the mother's working body to the plenary for decision. We believe that this is the most that we can do at this time to adopt a proposal for a law, otherwise as amended by the proposal, as it has already served with a solution on the committee itself, despite the fact that this proposal does not yet contain the law as a proposal, but it will be included in the re-examination on the working body, this is on our committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u138	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party of Slovenia will be presented by Mr France Cukjat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u139	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! When we adopted the amendment to the Medical Services Act last July, with which the Ministry wanted to set a uniform working time for doctors throughout all hospitals, all departments and all health care units, there was no warning that the regulation of the schedule did not belong to the law and that uniforming at state level was unnecessary and even harmful. That you rejected all the opposition's comments did not surprise us, but you blindly ignored the warnings of all Slovenian medical associations and even heard that it was obvious to doctors only for money. That's why they acted smart and shut up. It is not the job of physicians to resolve the imported health policy, especially if those responsible for this policy reject each of their initiatives. Health policy did not go away until regional hospital directors warned that the implementation of the novel would result in a 20% drop in the productivity of Slovenian health care. From yesterday's letter to the Clinical Centre, however, we understand that the Clinical Center was coming forward with a gradual change of working time before the law was amended, in agreement with the unions, and that it is now practically complicated only because of July's adopted novel. It is not the first time in this mandate and this department that we have been correcting poorly thought out laws after a few months. What we have somehow become accustomed to is the immediacy of rapid procedures and the inadequacy of the work of the legislative branch of power. That's not good. As long as the proposal is only a proposal, honourable Members shall bear the full moral responsibility of the proposer for his harmful provisions. The moment you press the buttons, the minister can raise his hands and say, "That's the law they passed." At that moment, you, honourable Members, take full responsibility and all blame for the bad consequences of such a law and such a policy. I am convinced that, as legislative authorities, we have not only the right but also the duty to demand a more qualitative approach from the applicant to solving the problem, which is not only due to the lack of money and the lack of doctors, but mainly due to the lack of social dialogue. We have a right and a duty to demand an approach that will solve and not create new, even greater problems. However, July's adopted novel is problematic in many articles and the current proposal, which touches only two articles, does not in any way eliminate all the harmful consequences of the law. It would be more appropriate for the Minister to propose an extension of the deadline by which time employers are obliged to organise the schedule of working hours, in accordance with the adopted amendment in July. But that wouldn't solve the complications either. This deadline should be postponed for at least ten years, as the amendment adopted in July introduces such changes, which, according to hospital directors, require a drastic increase in costs due to the employment of new doctors who are not and will not be for at least ten years. Therefore, due to the lack of money and personnel, we will not be able to implement the adopted novel in July, which therefore needs to be thoroughly changed. Not just in two articles. But if we reject the Committee's proposal, we will only continue to amend the two articles, even now that other articles need to be amended at the same time. The ministry could prepare a new integrated proposal over the holidays, which would also be in line with the Labour Relations Act, with the European Working Time Directive and agreed with the social partners, with doctors and directors, not only hospitals, but also health homes. Of course, only if we confirm the Committee's conclusion that the current proposal is an inappropriate basis for further consideration. By approving the decision, the Ministry would therefore be given the opportunity to propose deleting in July the adopted provisions on the working time of doctors, those provisions which do not fall within the law, but into the collective contract, the internal acts of the individual hospital and individual contracts with doctors. If so, they include provisions that define the working hours of the on-call service and the working hours of hospitals and ambulances, and that is the case, not in the law on medical care, but in the law on health care. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party's parliamentary group - Mr Jelinčič is not available. The position of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Mrs Majda Širca. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u141	Your Honor! On the Committee, a proposal was adopted on the home committee that the proposed amendment was not a suitable basis for further consideration, in order to draw attention to, in fact, the interpretation of this inappropriate ground. After all, we have met or are meeting this moment with two conceptual approaches to addressing this problem. On the one hand, the proposals, on the other hand, also support this law, which you have also received from Members with a message from representatives of public institutions, as well as hospitals, as well as a message from the Head of the Clinical Centre. And, on the other hand, by a different conceptual approach, which was forwarded by the social partners to the Committee itself. And they are moving to a completely different starting point, which is also possible for Members themselves, to be somewhat overlooked and to be considered in future or in any decision. There has been a very significant situation, or a dual situation will happen when we meet in January with a law that globally regulates the issues of working relations that will come into force. And another law that regulates specific, but inappropriate, issues that are not adequately addressed for the medical profession. The amendment seeks to address these issues, but it is undoubtedly true to highlight the following. One of the fundamental differences, I think that when we think about how to regulate working relationships in a specific field, such as health care, is whether we solve such a problem in a specific one, in short, in a law that is linked to the activity itself, or whether it can be resolved in a collective agreement, as the social partners would like. Remember, in the National Assembly, when we adopted the Labour Relations Act, we have already met this issue in another area where we have received clear instructions that legal and legitimate relations are, in so far as they are specific, and that also the Labour Relations Act dictates, a specific issue is solved in its own sectoral law. The new Labour Relations Act provides that the specifics of regulating working time and rest may also be regulated by law and not only by collective agreements at the level of activity. The Constitution itself provides that the rights and obligations of citizens and other persons may be determined by a national assembly only by law. Thus, the law also regulates the specifics of working relationships - I appeal, for example, to the question of artistic professions within the law on the implementation of public goods in the field of culture or in the law of education and education. You also have schoolchildren, we have a specific starting point in the law, which are specific, outside the labour law, and then they are successfully resolved in the collective agreement. The collective agreement is by definition an agreement whereby workers' representatives and employers' representatives agree to lower the permissible level of mutual rights and obligations in the working relationship, and essentially merely complements what the law implements. However, with the right of doctors to rest as an irresistible right of all employees, in view of the new labour law on employment, it would prevail over the constitutional right of citizens to health care, which is contrary to the wider social interest that the state must provide by law. In this sense, we have Members in front of the long-term - because we have the long-term benefit of the country, we are responsible for eliminating this contradiction of fundamental rights, so that the established one would not go to the detriment of the established other. In short, the right of citizens to health care from the Constitution will only be guaranteed if the right guaranteed is to be permanent and, therefore, must be exercised in a balanced manner. If I shorten, I appeal that the arrangements that are open here be complemented in a way to ensure that the issues are still open in detail, not to throw them away and put their solution into a completely different non-core act.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Igor Štemberger will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Youth Party of Slovenia. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u143	Thank you for your word. The government seems to be in a great hurry in this law, so the urgent procedure is just before the end of the year. In early January, the Labour Relations Act will enter into force, which commands workers the maximum number of working hours and the number of hours of rest. The working time of physicians should be adapted to their activities and to the fact that doctors are severely understaffed. Solutions must be such as to enable normal work in all health care institutions, to be organised continuously with medical care and, above all, to ensure that patients are not harmed. However, we adopted previous amendments to the law in July. The government has also had six months to align the changes it now proposes with the unions of doctors and doctors, the Medical Chamber and others. But she didn't do it. Why not? I guess you should ask the minister. All these associations sent letters that the amendments had been received too late and that they had to be identified at the last moment. A responsible government, a government that thinks about the welfare of doctors and thus indirectly of patients, would certainly not do so. The attempt to reach agreement decisions is useful for everyone and is a reflection of democracy, not of the will of a minister who thinks that with such "ad hoc" solutions it prevents disaster. No, no, no. Such solutions only increase the gap between the minister on the one hand and all healthcare workers on the other. We will not support proposals that will not be the result of constructive dialogue in the Young Slovenia Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u144	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentation of the views of the groups of Members and are moving on to a decision on the next proposal for a decision. An explanation of the voice? Just a moment before I read the proposal for a decision that we will decide on the Procedural Proposal before taking a decision? [[...]] That you'd like a vacation? Here you go, Mrs. Shirca.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u145	Thank you very much. In view of the fact that the decision should still be brought into line with the proposal, I would like to ask for a 10-minute recess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Before we go to decision-making, on behalf of the LDS Club, 10 minutes' rest. By making your decision and, of course, by explaining your voice, did you want to explain your voice? [[...]] We'll continue at 3:17 p.m. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u147	Dear Members, I ask you to join us in the Chamber, because we will move on to a decision on the following - I very much ask for peace in the Chamber, that those who would like to hear what we are going to decide will hear it. We will move to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Medical Services, an urgent procedure, is not suitable for further consideration. I ask the representatives of the party who asked for a recess before the decision - Mr Anderlič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u148	In the parliamentary group and above all in the coalition, we have consulted and found that the problems related to the implementation of the law adopted last July with the entry into force of 1.1.2003 exist and that it is necessary to consider how to establish the conditions for this service to function. It is therefore necessary to reject this proposal for a decision by the Committee and to draw up an appropriate solution for the benefit of both employees and patients. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u149	Thank you very much. So we're moving on to a decision. He wanted to explain his voice to Mr. Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u150	Thank you for your word. Well, I certainly hope you're aware that this is just a matter of barely mentioning the worth of correcting the length of the on-call time, the time of duty for doctors. However, the Labour Relations Act and all the regulations apply to all health workers and on duty three times as many nurses, by number, do not resolve this. Other profiles, other personnel, are also on duty, so this novel does not change or solve the problem of health care. Secondly, I would mention only one example, namely, look. An example of a Eurotransplant. These are activities such as this activity, which is linked to European activity - Slovenians are members of the Eurotransplant project, this is said to be a collection of organs across Europe and implanted at the time of need, a transplant is being carried out. In Slovenia, for example, we have only two liver transplanters and these two experts are working everywhere else and are not waiting for the moment when this activity will have to be carried out. And you'll be able to do the on-call job and, of course, at the end of the on-call service will come a call from Vienna, here are the liver, you have a patient, you have a transplant. These are specifics, gentlemen, in this Slovenian space and far away will not solve the problem with this novel. This novel needs to be thoroughly processed, only then can we say - we have preserved and not disrupted the Eurotransplant programme or other health programs in Slovenia. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] That is why I will vote in favour of the Committee's proposal. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We are therefore moving on to a vote on the proposal for a decision as presented. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 17 votes against 39. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. That's why we're gonna break this agenda. And please allow the president of the home labour body to read it to the end, because the rules of procedure provide for such behaviour when the decision is not adopted. [[...]] The mother's working body is expected to meet to prepare a complementary proposal for the law. Minister Keber, please. The procedural proposal has been made by Mr Minister, I would like to propose something with regard to the procedure. He raised his hand in front of you. If you'll excuse me, I'll give my word to him first, then you, Mr. Petty Officer. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u152	I'll be brief. In accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that the debate and decision be postponed to the next meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, this proposal will be decided by the National Assembly, but an urgent procedure has been proposed, which, of course, involves three hearings at the same meeting of the National Assembly. On the proposal of the government representative, I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Does anyone want to be defined for this proposal? [[Nobody.]] That's why we're moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 51 votes against 5. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. Therefore, this item will be postponed to one of the following meetings. We are moving on to unfinished agenda items because we have been waiting for the harmonisation amendments. First, we're going to continue with break three. Agenda item - Defence and vote on the 2003 amendment of the approval to harmonise the amendments to the national budget We have a harmonisation amendment on our hands, which is proposed by the Finance Committee. I'm asking the chairman of the board, does he want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The opinion of the Government is also given. Does the representative of the government want a word? [[Not at all.]] I give the text to the representatives of the groups of Members if they wish. [[They don't want to.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise changes to the state budget. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. 39 votes against 9. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. Thus, we can move on to a decision on changes in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the year 2003. Explanation to the vote - I interrupt the vote - Mr Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. I will vote in favour of this budget, but with a big lump in my throat. I expect that there will be a way in the process that 2003 will also be a normal year for the functioning of the State Council. I am convinced that the way in which the majority of the National Council of State have reduced the resources for action was not good. I hope and expect that the state world will not react in the way it could. I therefore expect that there will be a way for the state world to function normally. As it is said, I will support the budget and hope that we will not make amendments in the future decisions of the National Assembly in a similar way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u155	Thank you very much. We therefore move to a vote Explanation of the Voice, Mr Diaci. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. I will vote against the budget, without the navel in my throat. I hope that from the Slovenian Army General Staff line, we will buy this appropriate ammunition, which we obviously need so badly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] That is why we can now vote. We're voting. There are 55 of us present, 41 votes against 13. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that changes to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2003 have been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before the conclusion of this point, on the basis of Rule 163(3) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the Assembly that it adopt the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly authorises the President of the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, Mr Cyril Puck, and the Member of Ferri Horvat and Mr Petar Levic, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legislative and Legal Service of the Assembly, on the basis of the decisions taken by the Assembly, to draw up the final text of the 2004 State budget. Anybody want a word? As no, we are moving on to a decision on the proposed decision. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're going to break four. TIME OF DAY: we are continuing the meeting of the assembly with a view to discussing and voting on the amendment of the Committee for the Coordination of the Draft State Budget for 2004. You also have a government opinion on the table. I'm asking the chairman if he wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] A representative of the government? [[Not at all.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the amendment to harmonise the draft state budget. We're voting. There are 54 of us present, 41 votes against 6. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against six.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We can move to a decision on the draft budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 as a whole. We're voting! There are 53 of us present, 42 votes against 10. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 10.]] I note that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2004 has been adopted. Allow me once again to propose a proposal for a decision to authorize the National Assembly, in cooperation with the Finance and Monetary Policy Committee Chairman, Mr Cyril Puck, Mr Ferri Horvat and Mr Petr Levic, to prepare, in cooperation with the Ministry of Finance and the Legal and Legislative Service, the final text of the 2004 State Budget, on the basis of the decisions taken by the Council. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] We will therefore vote on this decision. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to five. Agenda item - Discussion on individual amendments and members of the supplementary draft law on the implementation of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for the years 2003 and 2004. We have two amendments on the table, namely the amendment to Article 7 and Article 8. The two proposers are four parliamentary groups of positions. First, I am putting to the debate Article 7 and the amendment of the four groups of Members to this Article. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] That is why I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the amendment. We're voting. There are 53 of us present, 40 votes against 7. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the amendment to Article 7 has been adopted. I am also putting forward an amendment to Articles 8 and 8 in full. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. We're voting. There are 49 of us present. 38 votes against 5. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the amendment to Article 8 has been adopted. We're moving to third reading. I note that the Second reading assembly has adopted amendments to Articles 7 and 8. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table amendments to this article? [[No, no, ……]] A full presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups and Members as well as the government as drafters of the law is possible on the draft law. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] That is why I am concluding the debate and moving on to a decision on the law as a whole. We're voting! There are 54 of us present. 40 votes against 9. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the 9th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Before the conclusion of today's meeting, allow me to make a further finding on the termination of the term of office of Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Ms Danica Simšič and Dr Lucija Čok informed the assembly on 20.12.2002 that they had resigned from their duties as Members. You received the resignations of Danica Simšič and Dr Lucija Čok today on the bench, so today, under the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members, the mandate of the Member is terminated. I will immediately inform the Republican Electoral Commission of this and ask them to inform the assembly which candidates will become a Member for the remainder of the term of office in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of Members who have terminated their term of office. On the basis of a notification from the Republic Election Commission, the State Assembly Election Commission will prepare a report and propose approval of the mandates and report on its findings to the assembly. Allow me to thank you very much, on behalf of all of us respected colleagues, and I wish them both a successful job in new duties. I hereby conclude the 25th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to give the floor to the President of the National Assembly, Mr Borut Pahor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-12-20-SDZ3-Izredna-25.ana.u158	Madam Vice President, colleague and colleague! Most of you probably did not notice that we are already at the end of the month and that Ljubljana is beautifully pre-godly and pre-newly decorated. It's no wonder we've been here most of the time. As the first of the same, I would like to thank all Members and Members of Parliament, first of all, and then all the employees of the National Assembly, all those who helped us make a bunch of decisions, including the most important ones, the appointment of a new government this month, for patience and patience. Without it, I don't think this success would be possible. Of course, we evaluate it differently, just as we have different political views, but we feel that this month, which has been very demanding, we have acted as a collective. Let me also in this light invite you here in the lobby for a glass to toast the achievements that are behind us, and to make good wishes for next year. We also meet on Sunday, when we will inaugurate the new President, and on Monday, when we will have a festive session where a fellow Member, Vice-President Dr Brejc, will speak. Until then, I welcome you. Now I also invite all the employees in the house to join us here in the lobby and to wish all the good in the new year, them and those who love them, to all those who cooperate with us, including the government representative, NGOs, all the institutions. Please. [[...]] [[Let's hear it.]] [[...]]
