ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I am opening the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Before I read who is absent today, allow me to take this opportunity at the beginning of the October session to express our common satisfaction that the Irish voters have supported enlargement and thus allowed candidate countries, including Slovenia, to end this project of joining the European family of nations, which is, by the way, important for our work, here is the subject of consensus. On this occasion, let me just remind you that in the last 12 months the National Assembly, colleagues and colleagues, has adopted 61 European Union laws and, in this way, has made it important that the report for Slovenia has been very favourable and gives great hope that the integration project will be well completed. I will now inform you of who are detained: colleagues Ašič, Dr. Brejc, Čeligoj, Diaci, Fabjan, Dr. Gaber, Horvat, Jakič, Jerič, after 16.00 hours colleagues Jerovšek and Špindler, otherwise colleagues Juri, Kacin, Lenko, colleague Majnikova, colleagues Malovrev, Mamić, Marsič, Petan, Peterle, School, Mag. Visjak, colleague of Flower Zalokar Orazem and Bogomir Zamernik. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I have also invited representatives of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to this meeting, to all items of the agenda and to the first item and to the 38th item of the representative of the Council of Justice. I say hello to everyone. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 19th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The draft agenda is drawn up in accordance with Rule 59 of the Rules of Procedure and received by reference to it on 11.10.2002. I'm asking for some peace in the hall. The draft agenda will be decided in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. First of all, I will find that I have not received any withdrawal proposals within the business deadline and therefore we are moving on to enlargement proposals. May I have your attention in the Chamber, the National Assembly will proceed to the vote. The PSC proposes to extend the agenda of this session by considering the proposal of the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for a judge in an international criminal court. You received an extension proposal by letter dated 18.10. this year. Does the proposer want an extension of the word? I'm guessing he doesn't want to. Members' groups have the opportunity to present their views. Colleagues and colleagues, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. Attention in the Chamber, we are voting on the proposal to extend the agenda. 51 present, 38 to and 2 to. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted. The National Assembly will consider that proposal to be the 38th item of the agenda. The mandate-election committee also proposes to the assembly to extend the agenda of this session by considering the proposal by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect a candidate for the International Criminal Court for Rwanda. You have also received this proposal 18 t.m. This year. I'm asking if any of the qualified discussers would like a word. [[Nobody.]] Then we can move on to a decision on the proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal to extend the agenda. 56 present. 43 for and 2 for. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal to extend the agenda has been adopted. The assembly will treat this as a 38.b item on the agenda. Thus, we are fully ahead of the vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with amendments and amendments adopted. We are voting on the agenda as a whole. 58 present. 44 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that the National Assembly has adopted the agenda of the October session. The 1st item of the agenda, these are questions from Members and Members of Parliament, we will begin at exactly 3 p.m. Until then, I'm taking a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u2	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, once again, a warm welcome to all at the October session. We're moving on to one. DOCTOR OF THE DAY - QUESTIONS FROM THE MISSIONS AND THE CONCERNERS. For the last time, at the introduction to this point, I said that after the adoption of the new Rules of Procedure, we would like to make some more order in the questions and initiatives of Members and Members, particularly when it comes to the government's answers to them. I promised that we would tell later which questions the colleagues and colleagues asked, which of the ministers or ministers did not answer. Dr. Tei Petrin thus posed a question to which he did not receive an answer. Andrej Vizjak, Minister Ivan Bizjak, therefore asked his colleague Saša Pece. Let me remind you that Dr. Janez Drnovšk, Prime Minister, after the time for asking questions has passed, also asked his colleague Jelinčič; in order for such a question to be considered unanswered, colleague Jelinčič must also give such a question in writing and then, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Prime Minister is obliged to answer it. The deadline for reply shall be 23 October. And other statistics. During the period 2000-2001, 620 questions were put together and 59% were not answered. This statistics were slightly corrected by government representatives in 2002 when they did not respond to 53% of the questions sent. There are certainly too many unanswered questions, and I therefore ask that both Members and Members of the Government, in particular, understand that trying to determine which questions have not yet been answered is actually the only sanction we have in order to get the right answers to the right questions. The order of questions referred shall be laid down in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 244 of the Rules of Procedure. The first four parliamentary questions will also be answered this time by Prime Minister Dr Janez Drnovšek, whom I warmly welcome among us. Representatives of opposition parliamentary groups will first ask questions, and finally a representative of one of the coalition parliamentary groups. First, he will ask a question from his fellow Member, Victory Jelinčič. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u3	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, at the beginning of 2000, the Slovenian National Party raised a question of a Member State, which has also developed a longer debate on the construction of the tunnel under the Trojans. At that time, Impressa Grassetto s.p.a. received an offer or accepted its offer for 13.9 billion Slovenian tolars. At that time, the Slovenian National Party presented all thoughts and thoughts against such offers and against accepting a foreigner. And today, a few years later, two years later, and a few years later, it turned out that we were all right. The money has already been spent, the Italians demand new money, made at most one half of the cases, demanded additional money, the quality of production is extremely poor, the internal walls are collapsing, even the injuries were. They're making extra work, they're demanding extra money. The deadline for the completion of works shall be extended. And first of all, security is very questionable; given all that is done in the tunnels and what is written about tunnels, this security is particularly important. The only thing that happened was they started a drive against SCT with some kind of diskette that was supposed to change colors. And then it turned out there was nothing from that. Now I want to know: If SCT was guilty of something, and as I know, it was nothing, why wasn't there any criminal charges filed? Why are certain procedures not initiated? On the other hand, when it appears that the blame is on the opposite side, on the commission, on the invitation to tender, on the DDC, on Dars: Why isn't anyone called to account? Why is it so quiet to get to the place? And this silence is actually too loud to be overlooked. Something like this is also being prepared in advance. It is intended to privatise the DDC, which suggests that another Slovenian national interest will go into foreign hands. And we're supposed to privatize Dars later. That means it would go into other people's hands. And I wonder: Whose interest is the sale of these companies? Are there going to be rumors here, as in the first case, that the Italians got jobs because some political parties were funding a pre-election campaign in 2000? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u4	Please, Prime Minister, you want to answer the question. Please. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u5	Thank you. Dear Member, tendering procedures shall be conducted independently and independently of the Government. And, of course, the Prime Minister is not involved and must not have any influence. So as far as the selection of contractors is concerned, whether it's a tunnel or another highway section, then of course I can't comment on that. As far as the problems you're mentioning are concerned, this is a problem for the construction of a tunnel under the Trojans, I think our Minister of Transport can provide the relevant information. It's also about other intentions, if he's got any dictions about it, because I don't have them. I don't know anything about selling either Dars or the State Road Company to any foreigner. So, Mr President of the National Assembly, I would suggest that Minister Presecnik provide the information.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u6	Mr. Minister, you have four minutes to complete the Prime Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u7	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Thank you very much for the question, Mr Member, Mr Victory Jelinčič. The question was quite alarmingly raised. I can say, of course, that pre-construction is one of the most demanding construction works in the road industry at all, and there is no way to predict 100 percent of what will happen in any construction. However, all of these events, as you mention in the construction of the Troyan tunnel, have been foreseen in advance. Such events are foreseen in the construction of tunnels. Above all, it is important that the profession controls them. And of course, I am sure that it is not true that the difference was at the time in the offer itself, that it has already been used and that we are now going from that other offer. Of course, I remember the debate very well myself, but I think it was almost two days in this national assembly in the previous term, in the second half of the previous term. I also estimate that, of course, it is not true that the public is not being informed. I think there were quite a few daily articles in all Slovenian newspapers and in all electronic media in Slovenia during this period, in a period back this autumn, where the problem was presented in such a way or in a different light. I can say that the contractor was introduced into the work on 28 March 2000 and that all works in the tunnel will be completed by the end of 2004 or early 2005, assuming, of course, that there will be no significant delays in the excavations due to different geological conditions, as of course they may occur. However, all procedures and all works, both at the trojan end and at the sea end, are carried out in such a way that these two sections will be completed by the end of 2004 or at the latest at the beginning of 2005. So I stress that on the eastern side of the tunnel, this is, if I look on the celery side, the works are progressing perfectly normally, in line with the timetable. Excavation shall be carried out in both tubes. Water insulation is already being carried out in the right tube and concrete is being applied to the inside of the concrete coating. The following phases are already being carried out in the construction of the tunnel. So the construction of the Troyan tunnel is carried out as planned, following the designed so-called new Austrian method, which is one of the most rational methods, but also, if I say domestically, it is not excessive in the areas of tunnel protection, but it is still within the perfectly normal limits of safe work and even the most rational work on financial wages. So in the second half of August of this year, in the narrow area, in the area of the retreat niche in the tunnels in the works, from the Ljubljana side, i.e. in the area of the retirement niche, where the excavation profile in the left and right tubes of these works is substantially increased, and thus the area of greater technical complexity, there have been cases where the deformations of the primary substructure have occurred. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u8	You can finish your thought.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u9	I therefore stress that all the works are carried out, of course, in accordance with the rules, that the Geomechanical Council is engaged, composed of domestic and foreign experts, that they continue to do so at this point in time, that the mining inspector has also found out and that the work will continue normally. As far as I'm concerned, there's only one more. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u10	Mr. Secretary, no, I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u11	Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u12	We are so correct that we let the sentence be completed, but no more; we need to keep an eye on the time that is uniformly set for everything. My friend Jelinčič wants to ask a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u13	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In view of Dr Drnovšk's response and in view of Mr President's additional explanation, I propose, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, an expanded debate on the achievements and achievements of Mr Drnovšk as Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia in the current mandate. Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will no doubt support the proposal, as I am sure that they do not at all doubt the success and almost inescapability of Mr Drnovska's actions and actions. In the event that the proposal is not adopted, at least in the Slovenian National Party we will judge or understand that even the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia does not support Mr Drnovšek and doubts about the success of his work. And one more thing, so we can get an answer to that "qui non est pro nobis est contra nose". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u14	Comrade Jelinčič, did I understand correctly that you are suggesting that we discuss the answer at the next meeting? That's the second paragraph. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u15	You understand correctly, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u16	This is the second paragraph of Article 246. This will be decided by the State Assembly without discussion. And just as we did last time, we will do it tomorrow at the first vote in the afternoon part of the National Assembly. The following question will be asked by colleague Janez Janš.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u17	Madam Prime Minister, in your performances you have repeatedly stressed that you have been in this place for more than ten years and that you have one of the longest internships in Europe or the world at all. You also place great emphasis on Slovenia's comprehensive development at this time, progress and stability, and on meeting the criteria for joining the European Union. This, of course, is normal, every authority, every government mainly boasts of achievements, while the negative pays the most to shut up. Many Slovenian economists have recently been increasingly pointing out that the so-called success story also has a second side, which is briefly called Slovenia's public debt. Let us first look at some indicators of development in the last ten years on the basis of data from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Bank of Slovenia. On the chart that you can see on the screen, we see that gross domestic product has grown in the last decade, and of course the government has been stressing this through and through, at the same time, that gross domestic product, especially since 1999, has declined, that this growth has been declining and that we have had the lowest growth since 1993. On the second chart we see that public consumption after a slight calm in the mid - 1990s has steadily increased since 1996. The third graph shows inflation. This graph shows that after we were optimistic, at the end of the previous decade, it is now clear that this is an uncontrollable problem in Slovenia, which will obviously remain the same this year and next year, according to the forecast. On the next graph, we see the movement of budgetary surpluses by 1996, when we had them, and unfortunately also the movement of deficits, the budgetary deficit, which has been growing virtually all of the last six years. And the last graph shows the debt of the Republic of Slovenia between 1992 and 2001, the rise in domestic and foreign debt and the common public debt, and on this graph we see the second part of the so-called success story. In less than ten years, the government under your leadership has managed to increase the country's total debt from 300 to 1,300 billion or each year by more than 100 billion tolars. It is also concerned by the comparison of key macroeconomic indicators which show that [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] particularly critical in recent years, when the product is falling and the debt is increasing. [[...]] I ask the Prime Minister, given that he has hired a very expensive foreign electoral expert: Does the government also intend to hire any experts to help reduce public debt and speed up the development of Slovenia?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u19	Thank you. Your Honor! Slovenia has experienced very good and balanced development in the last decade, not only according to our government estimates, but according to international estimates. Finally, this is not the case with the European Commission's report, which we received last week, which in fact qualified Slovenia as a qualified candidate for membership in the European Union and also mentions concrete progress in a number of areas. It is understandable that for the first time, the opposition is always looking for critical points. And second, of course, in every country, in every situation, in every development, we can always find such aspects that we can try to demonstrate in a critical way. Because there are simply no ideal countries and ideal development in this world. However, Slovenia is a successful country, not only at the European Commission's assessment, but also at the International Monetary Fund's assessment, according to the main risk agencies, the three world agencies that assess the country's credit ratings and the risks of those countries. We have an A-bonity and are the first among the transition countries to be assessed by all these agencies. In particular, these assessments take into account these financial indicators, including a relatively small share of public debt in Slovenia, according to the social product, according to the capacity to pay, in general, for all indicators. In this decade, Slovenia has significantly improved its ratings. And they're not as good today as they were at the beginning of this period. As regards the last few years, Slovenia has reached a relatively high level of economic development, taking into account the fact that we have a global recession. That in many countries we have virtually an economic stagnation, that we have economic stagnation in our main partners. In particular, let me mention Germany, which is our largest economic partner, in particular a trading partner. And even though such negative movements in Europe, in the world, of course also have a negative impact on the Slovenian economy, our growth rates are still higher than they are mostly elsewhere. And in these tight global recession conditions, Slovenia maintains a minimum budget deficit, including in the projected budgets that we have presented, and even in the recent period, especially if we take into account and if we can look again at the statements of the last week, for example, when the President of the European Commission finds that the Stability Pact and the Stability Pact in the Euro Zone are too rigid, too rigid and that they will deviate from the 3% deficit as the largest one that will apparently be exceeded by Germany in Portugal this year, and that France and Italy, for example, are approaching it. In short, Slovenia is achieving better indicators, including better budgetary and public financial indicators than these countries. In the last decade, we have invested a lot in Slovenia, invested in infrastructure, invested in roads, for example, schools, education, investments in all areas. And I think we have a lot to show for it. If all of this is taken into account, of course also the increase in the public debt that has been due, we see that it has been devoted to investments to improve the entire infrastructure in Slovenia, which is, of course, a necessary assumption for effective development. So, if I round up, the financial situation of Slovenia is solid - all independent external assessors find it this way - and Slovenia, you can go anywhere in the world, it turns out to be a successful country, which is widely regarded as a true success story, and such are also the results of this decade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. My friend Janš wants to ask a supplementary question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u21	Thank you for this partial answer, although the specific question has not been answered. We do not claim that there was no development, I stressed this at the beginning. However, we have also shown on the basis of government data that a large part of this development was financed by borrowing. Such policies are called developments in the European Union at the expense of future generations. This is not the right answer for the future for us, but in particular the fact that trends, as they have been shown in recent years and as they appear in the forecasts for the coming years, are negative. And even at the time of the government's presentation of the budget, we have not heard any concrete proposals on how to reverse these trends positively; what has been said has already been considered unrealistic by economic experts in the coming days. I would therefore ask the Prime Minister once again: Would it not make sense, given that these trends have been negative for several years and that the data we have seen do not concern time after 11 September 2001, but the time before it, when there were no black predictions in the world, that perhaps, given that we are hiring foreign advisers for a variety of things, including electoral campaigns, would hire some of these advisers to turn these trends in a positive direction?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u22	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. Would you like to respond, Mr. President? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u23	For the time being, the government did not intend or discuss and consider hiring foreign advisers. We have regular annual consultations with the International Monetary Fund, with the European Commission monitoring our economy, as it is monitoring it for all candidates and as it will follow it for the members - even when we are members of the European Union, we will receive such annual reports and assessments as we did last week - and for the time being, I am therefore assessing that there is no need to engage at any broader level, the macroeconomic level of advisers, because our objectives are quite clear and, I repeat, our economic situation is solid. In the last period, the European Union has experienced some economic growth that Slovenia has exceeded, in general, more than once, in short, the growth of the social product in Slovenia has been almost double in terms of growth in the European Union. At the same time, Slovenia's indebtedness for half, compared to the social product, is half as low as in the European Union. So I must say that, from this point of view, I am peacefully leaving the results of the ten-year period, so, not only in my opinion, they are, according to an international assessment, very solid and constitute a good basis for further action. Of course, there is always a need to look for ever better solutions, to solve those problems that still are and that will always be, but of course this remains a continuing task. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. The third question will be asked by colleague Bogomir the grandson. You have the floor, Comrade Grandchild.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u25	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear President, Janez Drnovšek, colleagues and colleagues! This weekend we learned that the Irish voted positively in the referendum to join the new members, and the NATO Summit is also nearing, where certain indications suggest that Slovenia may also be invited. I just want to say that it is very good in the international field. In the internal area, domestically, of course, the main news is how this or these state funds will sell the shares of successful domestic companies - the government has also sold a good piece of state property, headed by the New Ljubljana Bank - and, of course, the problems with cash inflows are already showing us and it is also suggesting that inflation will increase as a result. That is why, of course, I began to think about the state’s capacity to pay, in relation to all of this, and given that the government, on the other hand, is late or is not paying for certain services. For example, in recent times we have heard that there are problems with veterinarians, then car carriers and elsewhere, and also payment deadlines for users of budgetary resources and investment operators in the country are usually 90-days. That is why, of course, I ask, Mr President: Why such long payment deadlines for users of budgetary resources and other operators? What's the connection here with the state's ability to pay? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u27	Thank you. Dear Member, the country's macro-economic capacity for payments is very solid. We have very high foreign exchange reserves and certainly not problematic. Even on the internal home stage, we can see that each time a law on the implementation of the budget sets deadlines and states, state institutions usually adhere to them. In particular, since we have two years of budget planning, the whole functioning of the state budget and the payment is more predictable, all activities are better planned and easier to carry out. However, I propose that something more be said by the Minister of Finance, who deals more directly with this. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u28	Minister of Finance, mag. Robbery.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u29	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! As far as payment deadlines are concerned, the legislation is clear. In particular, it provides for a law on the implementation of the investment transfer and investment budget for at least 60 days, for all other obligations of 30 days and for all legal obligations, of course, on the date on which those obligations occur. So, all social transfers, all those liabilities relating to salaries and, therefore, I would say, the bulk of the state budget is paid precisely within the deadlines provided for. These hands I've been talking about, they also come true regularly. There's absolutely no reason to be late. From the date of the order to the Ministry of Finance, payment shall also be made on a regular basis. In fact, these payment deadlines were longer only at the time when we applied Article 40 of the Public Finance Act, that was at the time of the temporary funding in early 2001 and at the end of 2000, when the government took over the mandate and when there were relatively large problems in public finances. We are now implementing the budget on a regular basis and we do not see any problems in this regard in the future. Perhaps I would just like to mention, as far as payment orders and obligations are concerned, that I can give, for example, the European Union. These pre-accession payments shall be paid within 55 to 170 days so that they are not subject to a specific deadline. However, this is about the country's obligations, which are of course very reliable and therefore the security of these payments is very high and, I would say, there is no particular problem in this area lately and therefore there is no need to change these hands. There may be delays in individual cases where there are delays in budgetary users, if these orders are not submitted to the Ministry in time or if there are individual problems within the budget lines and there is still a need for redeployment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. You want an extra question, supplemental? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u31	Thank you, again, for your word. In fact, the Minister's response prompted me to ask a further question. That is, last week we were briefed on the proposal for a budget rebalancing. On the other hand, as Mr Minister has said, as far as these orders and tasks are concerned, in these days, we hear government officials mass, following their domestic "stand" contracts, that they will be caught as soon as the blockade begins to pay off. Therefore, the question was also here: Why so long? This causes other types of problems for users and, of course, for operators, from indebtedness, and consequently for subcontractors to liquidity problems. The country, on the one hand, has a very long payment deadline, while other supervisory authorities in these companies do not take this into account, and those deadlines are shorter there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u32	Would you like to respond, Mr. Prime Minister? You're delegating your response to the Minister of Finance. Mag. Robbery, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u33	This is all I would add to the fact that there may be delays in individual subcontractors working for individual operators. However, of course, it is necessary to say that such longer-term deadlines are limited to investments. It's been there for over 60 days and that's still common. And it's normal when we close the budget year. And if the payment deadline is 60 days, of course, 60 days before the closure of the items, we need to know exactly how much the individual budget obligations will be, because this allows us to plan normally liquidity. And of course, liquidity planning means that we are planning both tax and non-tax revenues and the necessary liquidity and other debt, so that we normally drive the financial year and do not owe ourselves needlessly. Therefore, it takes time for us to regularly plan liquidity inflows and outflows. And it is a perfectly normal organisation of services and absolutely nothing out of the ordinary, and these hands in the economy are not much shorter, to the contrary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u34	Thank you very much. A question for the Prime Minister will be raised by colleague Tone Anderlich. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u35	Dear Mr. President! The Irish referendum has thus fallen another serious obstacle to the final enlargement process of the European Union. We wanted the outcome that others across Europe wanted and those waiting, like us, for the conclusion of the accession process. I want to know: How do you comment on the outcome of this referendum and what can we expect in the light of the completion of the pre-accession and enlargement process in our country?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u37	Thank you, Your Honor. The outcome of the Irish referendum is extremely positive for us, and we estimate that this has left the last major obstacle that could stop the enlargement process of the European Union. We all knew that if the Irish referendum fell, then serious complications or at least what is, a great uncertainty could occur. And once the Treaty of Nice has been definitively approved, an institutional framework for enlargement is finally laid down. The European Union can accept a further 10, 12 members, with provisions from Nice, and Slovenia therefore belongs to one member of the European Commission and a certain number of votes, of course within the Ministerial Council and also within the European Parliament. The question now is whether there is any other danger before the conclusion of the enlargement process. We are waiting, or until the end of this week, in Brussels at the summit of the European Union, for the final adoption and rounding of negotiating points for the remaining financial issues - agriculture in particular was open because some members wanted to first reform the European Union's agricultural policy before they agreed to membership conditions, if conditions could also prejudge future agricultural policy. However, there are realistic expectations, and so far there have been no other announcements that Germany is likely to agree on a proposal from the European Commission, we expect the remaining three countries that have asked such questions. It is true that in the Netherlands, where the government has resigned, due to the disputes over enlargement, it is believed that ten new candidates are too many, in their view that at least some, such as Poland, Lithuania, Slovakia and Latvia, should wait; obviously Slovenia is in this circle, which is also acceptable for the Netherlands. And the Netherlands will probably still require certain guarantees or certain safeguards for those who are not yet sufficiently integrated into the 'acquis communautaire' in common European legislation, European rules or not yet trained, particularly in the economic field. But now, according to Nice, this complication seems much smaller and easier to resolve. The Nice referendum has given a positive impetus and we expect the Brussels Summit to resolve the remaining issues on the European Union side. Of course, if the outcome of the Irish referendum were different, this would probably be a very reversed situation, those open issues would probably be even more likely and very likely to be in a certain blockade that would, at least, bring a certain stalemate. Well, now, after yesterday, we see that the appearance is significantly better, the perspective is significantly better and very realistic for us to conclude negotiations in Copenhagen in mid-December of this year, including everything related to the membership treaty, which will then be formally prepared and then signed in a short time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Let's move on with the questions. You'll be stopping them for ministers and ministers. First, colleague Maria Possonec to the Minister of Health and Minister of Environment, Space and Energy. Please, colleague Pozson.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u39	Thank you very much, Mr. President. All in attendance have a nice greeting! According to health indicators, the population in Pomur is the most endangered segment of the Slovenian population. This area emerges with the shortest life expectancy, which is three years lower for men and two years lower for women than for other parts of Slovenia. We have the highest rate of general mortality in Pomur 9.9 per 1,000 inhabitants in men, while this rate for Slovenia is 8.3. There is also a persistent increase in the number of cancer cases detected in the Pomurje area. In 1987, 419 people were infected with cancer in Pomour, 468 in 1991 and 524 in 1996. That is why this area has the highest rate of hospitalisation. It is precisely because of the above data that health care in the region, both basic and secondary, would be expected to receive more programmes for its work, which also means more money. This is not the case, and in this regard I am asking for an explanation from the Minister of Health. A new blow for the poor means paying for the costs of health services in relation to the procedures on the disability commissions. People with 50,000 or 60,000 tolar wages are very difficult to pay for health services. Because the patient is already having such a hard time surviving himself and his family that he cannot yet pay for all the costs of examinations, investigations and so on, which can amount to up to 100,000 tolars. Where, then, is the patient's right to health and, finally, to disability. It seems to me that some think intensely about how to get the last tolar out of the patient’s pocket. In addition, we can add the lowest nativity, the lowest educational structure, the minimum number of students per population, the lowest gross income, the low employment rate and the rate of social exclusion and their poverty are on the palm of the hand. I therefore ask the Minister of Health and also the Minister for Environment and Space: What will you do to improve the health status of the Pomurje population? We, too, would like to survive those two or three years, which is meant for the people of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Health, please, Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u41	Madam Member, Members and Members of Parliament! The population of Pomur is in fact a health-threatening population in this country. The poor health situation is largely due to poor, unfavourable socio-economic indicators, low social product, high unemployment rates, low levels of education, unhealthy lifestyles, as many studies have shown that poverty is also the most unfavourable indicator of health. Socially excluded, poor people also find it more difficult to recognize their health problems and are less likely to find themselves after medical treatment and are less likely to reach it. While a small addition to the unfortunate data that I agree with and that has been served by the Member State, the cancer situation is no longer as worrying as it was by 1995. After that time until 2000 it was cancer on the breast and cancer on the lungs, so that Pomurje will only deviate from the rest of Slovenia after skin cancer in both sexes. Probably due to increased exposure to the sun and poor protection of farmers. The Ministry is therefore aware of this problem and, in addition to the usual or health measures that the entire population has received in the context of health policy, has prepared a specific pilot project called Health and Development - Mura, which aims to improve the health status of the population through the promotion of development through a number of sectoral ministries. It is about promoting healthy food production, ensuring a high level of self-sustainment, environmental rehabilitation, developing health-friendly tourism products, establishing health centres, integrating cultural heritage as development opportunities and, of course, raising public awareness of healthy lifestyles. This project has also come under international attention because it is indeed one of the rare projects linking the development and promotion of health, and in this regard they also expect answers to the questions about how development affects health. That is why the World Health Organization is also involved in this project, in addition to almost all our departments, the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Mr. Environment Minister, would you like to complete the response of the Minister of Health? Please, so you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u43	Thank you so much for saying that. As far as the health situation of the population in Pomure and the connection with environmental problems or environmental pollutants are concerned, I must say that the precise causal link has not yet been established professionally. However, the fact is that, in the case of excessive emissions, environmental inspections have been carried out and, in fact, it has repeatedly reacted, specifically ordered rehabilitation in Nafta Lendava, banned waste management in Albin Promotion, acted against Varstro due to improperly stored waste and ordered the construction of a cleaning plant in Lek Lendava, which now has at least emissions within the limits of permitted parameters. You also mentioned problems that may arise from agriculture. Let me say that the government is currently preparing a regulation setting up a regime in water protection areas. And there we predict that a beautiful part of Prekmurje or a beautiful part of Pomurje will be declared a water protection area where some of the most dangerous pesticides will be banned. Although this will cause quite a few reactions, it is likely by those who use pesticides, we feel we are obliged to do so. Not only for the area of Pomurje, but also for several other areas in Slovenia, for the wider surroundings of Ljubljana, i.e. for the area between Ljubljana and Kranje, but also for the area around Celje, the area of the Drava field from Maribor to Ptuj and the area around the New City, along with the larger part of Pomur. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Colleague of Pozsonchev, supplementary question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u45	Thank you very much for your answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u46	Peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u47	Mr. Keber, I ask you to explain: Why do they get medical institutions in Pomurje, specifically a hospital in Murski Sobota, less money? And this: What is the meaning of this new order for self-payment checks before the Disability Committee? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u48	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Health, Dr. Keber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u49	I can answer the first part of the question. We have repeatedly presented a relatively non-transparent method of funding in the public sector, allowing money between different hospitals to not be properly distributed. The Murska Sobota Hospital, or Murska Sobota Hospital, in fact, points to some indications that it is underfunded according to some other hospitals. As early as 1 January 2003, a new hospital financing system will be in force, which will either eliminate or significantly mitigate the current inadequate allocations of money for hospitals between Slovenian regions. I didn't fully understand the second part of the question, but I'm afraid I don't know it either. We'll get you a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The next question will be raised by colleague Janez Drobnic to the ministerial assembly. You have the floor. I'm asking for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u51	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr President, I thought that I would first get an answer to the question raised at the previous meeting of the National Assembly. When we glanced at the Vice-President of the National Assembly and, in fact, I had to refer to the situation as a matter of fact, because none of the government's representatives were there. Not even the secretary general. So first, I would like to ask for an answer, an oral answer to a question I posed earlier, at a previous meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u52	Yes, I have this question recorded, Comrade Petty Officer. You appointed him Dr. Tei Petrin, Minister of Economy. Do you insist on answering now, within the framework of this meeting?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u53	Yes, of course, because that's how we were agreed to respond to the next meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u54	So you have the opportunity to answer, Madam Minister - if you have completed the question, mag. A little something?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u55	I've finished the basic question because I've also made time for that bonus from the previous session.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u56	Thank you very much. The Minister for the Economy will answer your question, Dr. Petrinov Bila was placed at the last meeting. Please, Dr. Petrinov.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u57	I'm sorry, but your question has not been addressed to me, but in the previous session, as you know, I was not present. So if you could at least know what the question is and then we can answer it in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u58	Well, this is not the task of the National Assembly, this is the task of government services accompanying the work of the Assembly, that questions addressed to ministers or ministers are submitted to and answered by the competent authorities, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. But you're so kind, mag. A trifle to repeat the question briefly, then we will give the Minister the floor to answer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u59	Thank you very much. So, once again, I will ask the question, but of course I am not satisfied with this way of communicating between the national assembly and the government; this shows that the government does not take matters seriously. Look, we have agreed with the Rules of Procedure that questions will be posed in advance, so we pose them in advance, and then we receive or receive no answer at the session, and so on. Okay, I won't say it again. Once again, I ask the question, and this is about the imposition of compensation for victims of war and post-war violence. The Slovenian compensation company continuously sends questions and requests to supplement the applications. So three times, those who want to make applications get applications three times to complete the application; once an EMHO, twice a parent number, the third time I don't know what else, a giro account or a running account. Would it not be in one letter to save more decisions than you have made so far? Indeed, the former Secretary of State has ensured that all decisions based on decisions on recognised damages will be issued by the end of the previous year or by November. This Secretary of State is no longer here; another has promised at the beginning of the year; now it is the end of the year and they have not yet received these decisions. Now I'd like to ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u60	Thank you so much for your kindness, mag. It's a trifle that you've repeated the question. Madam Minister, you have five minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Well, I just noticed that you were sent a written answer to your question that you asked, and I think it's exhausting, one and a half. I think you've received it, so I don't know if I should read our answer in full. However, 4.10.2002 was sent.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u62	Please. The questions raised orally must be answered orally by the Government. Please, supplemental question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u63	Now I think it's bordering on a fairy tale. Do you know why oral questions are? So that people can watch TV because there's a lot of questions like that, and they get the answer. If I get a written answer, I'm the only one who gets it, which I'm interested in, and it's possible that I'll answer whoever asked. A lot of people asked that question. And that's why I wanted an oral response. That's why he was, not because he had certain whims. I think, Mr President and Madam Minister, that you have understood my well-intentionedness.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u64	Can I explain that we wouldn't spend too much time discussing it as a mag? Janez Petty Officer, last time Dr. Tea Petrin was not present at the meeting, said he would ask this question again at this meeting. Nevertheless, the government has apparently given a written answer and is obliged to provide it orally. I said that we all decided together to do something about asking questions and answering them a little more in order, so that we both respect the roles and responsibilities we have. To resolve this complication now, I ask again, Madam Minister, whether she wishes to add something else to this answer. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u65	Well, then I'll tell you the essence of the answer. The Slovenian Indemnity Company has already clarified several times that the uniform national home numbers are necessary for the reliable identification of beneficiaries, since they limit the amount of compensation and individual beneficiaries to 2 million tolars and the beneficiaries can receive compensation from several titles. Single national home numbers are only required by special letters from beneficiaries under the law on the elimination of wrongs, since the commission for the implementation of the law on the abolition of wrongs does not provide the Slovenian Compensation Society with such data, although the instructions on the manner, forms and time limits for the transmission of data by beneficiaries of compensation under the law on the fund for compensation to victims of war violence in Articles 2 and 3 provide for the data required by the Slovenian Indemnity Society to carry out the tasks in accordance with the provisions of the law and that such data are required to be transmitted by the competent authorities. For the majority of beneficiaries, the Slovenian compensation company has obtained data from administrative units on the number of current, giro invoices or savings books, but the beneficiaries of these accounts keep monitoring or require that compensation be given to them in some other way or in a feed book, so the request lists the accounts which differ from the invoices provided. However, these accounts are often incomplete, which means that beneficiaries must be asked for a supplement, otherwise they cannot be credited with the amount of compensation. By requiring the completion of the claims, the Slovenian compensation company does not in any way delay the compensation procedures as it is evident, but only acts as prescribed by the law and by law which were adopted on the basis of it, as it can only be ensured that compensation is paid.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Once again, let me explain that it is our common interest to get answers to questions. I have already said that other sanctions than these, I always say at the next meeting, to which questions have not been answered. I ask the government to fulfil its duty. By the end of the term of office, it is certainly our goal that this ungrateful information that more than half of the questions raised do not have answers is substantially changed. I'm supposed to ask my colleague Jerovšek the next question, and I don't see him in the hall - please?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u67	Mr President, this question has been raised since the meeting of the previous State Assembly and I am entitled to a question at this State Assembly and to an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u68	Comrade Petty Officer, thank you very much. We've explained things. [[...]] [[The ad from the bench.]] I gave several times the opportunity to give both a question and the Minister an answer. [[...]] I think there's a clear explanation to this question. If we have to, we'll ask a written question on the bench. I can't give three times, four times, one option for a supplementary question, Comrade Drobnic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u69	Mr President, I have repeated the question, not on my own account, but on the fault of the government. That's what happened. I only asked one question. So let me ask you one more question: What about issuing these bonds? Indeed, the deadline has actually expired when these citizens of bonds can be expected. Look, I called the Slovenian Compensation Society to explain. The Slovenian compensation companies did not explain to me. I would therefore ask the Ministry, because it will probably be difficult to launch the response as it is, but I would ask if they could send me a reply in writing regarding the bonds.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u70	Comrade Petty Officer, as I am asking for patience on your part, if I feel that I am not doing something right myself, also, of course, I ask you to be patient; but I would like to say that you have now asked a question to which you do not ask an oral answer, which is not the point of asking oral questions at this point in the agenda. I understand what you're saying. The government has this opportunity to answer your question in writing, but if you want to have a written answer, ask the question in writing. Today, however, oral questions are raised within this point, to which the government, as you have previously rightly stated, must be answered orally. Now I ask you to ask my colleague Jerovšek if he is near the hall, otherwise I must skip and give my word to my colleague Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u71	Mr President, I have not yet raised a question in today's session. This is all that has been said - I do not allow myself to break the rules of procedure. I really don't. I'm entitled to the question. This question and the answer referred to the previous meeting of the National Assembly, where representatives of the Government were not present. Furthermore, Mr President, I have the opportunity to raise two questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. 242. Article - at one meeting, raises no more than two oral questions
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u72	Comrade Petty Officer, may I ask you a question? So now you're going to ask the government a new question?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u73	What I'm about to set up is today's meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u74	And you've announced this?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u75	And that's what I've announced.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u76	Please, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u77	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u78	We didn't get along. Obviously, I understand that you just want to repeat the questions that you are already having at the previous meeting, and you want to ask a new question today. Did we close the misunderstanding? Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u79	Okay. All right, Mr. President. I think that's gonna be fine. So we go to today's question. I would like to ask you, Madam Minister, a question concerning the block exemption regulation relating to the anti-competitive law. The Government has therefore adopted a regulation on group exemptions. It's a submarital act of law that I listed. With the content and intensity of this order, I, as my fellow Members, agree. But we do not agree with the way it was issued. So, it's about what transitional period you've set. The transitional period for this Regulation shall be 6 months. Let me tell you that they have identical regulation in the countries of the European Union. The Commission of the European Union has also adopted a similar regulation, as this is also the case with ours, where it gave one year's deadline. None of the members who will join the European Union have adopted such an act, but they will only be subject to it when they enter. Apparently, this makes us "more papal than pope." This will bring some adaptation difficulties to some car industry operators in particular. The European Union, and countries will benefit from this because this regulation will be tested in practice in our country. So we're going to prove ourselves like guinea pigs. There was no need to provide this in the acquis. So I ask myself, Who promised this, and why did you do it? Secondly: the regulation goes beyond the provisions of the basic law. Indeed, the Regulation cannot extend or encroach on the right laid down in the basic act. And in that case, it was about that. So, without the legal basis and beyond the material resources, nothing can be determined. You just did it. That is why the government is in the field of arbitration, which the law does not allow it to do. So one more question. Why did you decide to implement this Regulation prematurely? What were your reasons for knowing what was going on? Actually, I'm afraid it wouldn't have happened the way it happened with the opening time at the store.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u80	Thank you very much, colleague mag. It's a trifle. Please, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Well, I should mainly point out that the Block Exemption Regulation, published in the Official Journal 69/2002 to car manufacturers of the situation, unlike the European system - that is to say, the system governed by the European Union for automotive manufacturers - does not worsen the situation. On the contrary, it gives them an exception to the general prohibition. In short, this new block exemption in the European Union for automotive manufacturers has created a more stringent situation, which is why the European Union gives them the opportunity to apply or the previous deadline of one year. It's the other way around. That's why. This is because the third paragraph of Article 5 of the Anti-Limiting of Competition Act allows exceptions to the general prohibition, both individual and group. The group exemptions shall be defined by a Regulation. That is why the Government has also adopted this Regulation. The specific chapters of the Regulation relate to car distribution, insurance, technological development and the like. Thus, by adopting a regulation, an exemption from the general prohibition on the restriction of agreements is granted to those types of contracts, agreements or relations to participants. This is particularly the case for so-called exclusive and selective distribution. In the event that a government would not define such options by a regulation, the ratio of exclusive or selective distribution could be regarded as prohibited. Where individual situations fall within the scope of the block exemption, an individual exemption may be granted. In short, let me conclude that the new regulation, through the exemption system for the Slovenian automotive industry, does not mean a deterioration of the situation, but mainly a better transparency and thus a better position for this industry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u82	Thank you very much. Again? Complementary. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u83	Thank you very much. So the supplementary question concerns, well, this answer. In fact, you claim that this Regulation is nicer for our producers, so it is also milder terms and shorter time. We'll compare it to that. See, in this regard, I would like to ask: Will you adopt another regulation, which will then be sharper for our producers when they enter the European Union or not? As far as I know, the Regulation is quite identical or similar to the Regulation of the European Union: will you perhaps extend this transitional period to at least the one they have in the European Union?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u84	Would you like to respond further, Madam Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u85	Thank you very much. After the expiry of this deadline, of course, we will find out whether the deadline should be extended or not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u86	Thank you. Once again, I call on my colleague Jerovšek, if he is in the Chamber, to give him the floor to ask the question. My colleague Jerovsk is not here, so I give my word to my colleague Sam Bevk. He will ask two questions: the Minister for Environment, Space and Energy and the Minister for Agriculture, and I would like to inform you, colleague Bevk, and everyone else that the Minister for Agriculture has apologized until 5 p.m. for his outstanding obligations in Ljubljana. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u87	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Minister of Environment, Space and Energy, Mag. Janez Kopač, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, Mag. France Buta, I ask about the long-term procedures for the adoption of the long-term and medium-term plans of the municipalities. I would like to ask: What are the timetables for issuing the consents of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to individual plans? How many outstanding cases are waiting for the government to decide? What human resources potential is involved in this work in individual ministries? Although spatial planning is supposed to be the original jurisdiction of the municipalities, this is not the case in practice. In fact, the municipality has virtually no influence on the planning decisions, as it only acts as an initiator and a proponent of changes. However, initiatives are ultimately, on the basis of the expert evaluations of individual ministries, decided by the Government. In fact, the municipalities are left with only existing building plots to plan. From the initiative of the individual municipality to change the plan to the final agreement of the governments, it takes at least two years, and most often a lot more, to my conduct. The State authorities do not adhere to procedural deadlines, do not have prepared professional bases for previous opinions and conditions, act in a timeless manner, all of which leads to an unreasonable long process and impedes the development of the local community. I ask Minister Kopač to answer the question: Is it true that only four professionals work at the Office for Spatial Planning in this area? Even in the Idrija municipality, we have already joined the changes to the existing plan in 2000, but we have not yet been agreed by the government. So I wonder: When is this going to happen? Only Idrija, for example, one of the 193 Slovenian municipalities has 30,550 parcels and 62 cards, so the human resources substandard team at the Ministry cannot follow the roles or demands of local communities. I also propose to the Minister that in this area he begin to introduce modern computer technologies and encourage municipalities to start drawing up electronic plans. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u88	The Minister of Mag will answer your question. The digger. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. First of all, maybe on this last initiative. The fact is that we wanted to impose on the municipalities at the beginning of this year an obligation to design their spatial plans in digital form. We have found that we do not have the legal basis for such a thing; we can only recommend it; this is the basis that we will all get together by means of a new law on the regulation of space which is to enter into force from 1.1.2003. Well, as far as your question is concerned about the deadlines for agreement on the proposal to amend municipal spatial plans, let me say that the procedure is going this way - because of course you know it well, but perhaps only for someone else. First, it is necessary to establish the starting points to be provided by individual resources. These starting points, professional starting points, before the municipality even embarks on planning, must say - I don't know, the Ministry of Culture, what is there to protect with regard to the protection of cultural heritage, the Ministry of Agriculture, what is there to protect with regard to the protection of agricultural land, and so on and so on. Well, the marriage deadline for obtaining or issuing such professional outlets is 30 days; but this is an instructional deadline. But the fact is that very few of the resources of this arm are holding up. The biggest problems, as I have understood, are, after all, some of your questions, with the Ministry of Agriculture, the biggest problems here, and the major problems with the Ministry of Culture; the other departments are holding relative to those deadlines. But then, when there is a conformity assessment of the proposed amendments to the plan act, this, of course, lasts for quite some time. However, when the application is complete, it is necessary to give the government consent to such a plan act. By November of last year, past governments had sometimes waited several months, even more than a year, with these consents. Since November last year, we have set up a system, and I have spent a year trying to put together this system, through which the government has strictly - so far we have only missed one case in two days - we strictly agree in 45 days. Usually, too, if the role is complete. Thus, there is no longer any delay in this part of the business, but there are still delays in issuing professional outlets. However, we have here a new proposal for a law on the regulation of premises, and it is at this meeting of the National Assembly that there is a second hearing, which provides that the resources must be given their professional starting points within 30 days. If they don't, the law says they don't have a starting point. In this way, the authorities will now have to organise themselves, organise themselves, so that these professional starting points will certainly be made within 30 days, since it means that no one will comply with their substantive requirements anymore. This will be a major shock to any ministry, I am sure, and will also require some more employees in that area of work. But we can't wait for everyone to "require" so that we can introduce such a novelty. We are entering with it from 1.1.2003. Therefore, I am sure that the change in the spatial plan will no longer be a "fun fun" if I may use this term. There will no longer be something that will drag on for so long, but something that will run relatively quickly through the procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u90	Thank you very much. Would you like to ask a supplementary question? Please, mate Bevk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Just for a little while. My question was also some kind of initiative. In fact, I asked: Are there really only four professionals working at the Office for Spatial Planning in this area? Somehow, I applied for the human resources support of this department, and I didn't get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u92	You want to give an explanation? Minister Mag. Digger, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u93	She's working really hard, but it's not just the four of us. However, we will have to hold on to these deadlines that I have foretold, so that this problem is our internal problem and we will solve it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u94	Thank you very much. The next one has the word of a colleague, Franz Chebulj. He's going to ask the Ministry of Transport, Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Dear ministers and ministers! Dear colleagues and colleagues! My question is addressed to the Minister for Transport, Mr Jakob Preseknik, with the following content: in short, there are two questions. 115. Article 1 of the Aviation Act prescribes compensation to affected areas to address environmental harm if noise and emissions exceed the limit permitted. The second paragraph provides, inter alia, that compensation is due to the deterioration of the conditions of residence of residents in these areas. I ask the following question: Are these articles of the law being implemented? [[Because I know you don't.]] Why not? Ter: When will they begin? I also ask: Has the Ministry or the Minister, on the basis of a law that prescribes regulations and regulations under the articles of the Aviation Act, yet published which, for which I want an answer? It concerns Article 86, Article 88, Article 11, Article 115, Article 118, and any other question which may be referred to as another question on airport safety. In recent times, a variety of information about radar eclipses at the airport has been disseminated throughout the media. The area villages that are tanning at the airport - this is not only about the safety of passengers, but also about the safety of the surrounding villages and the inhabitants. I ask the following question: Why don't you correct these mistakes? [[It's a local-range radar.]] How much does the Republic of Slovenia pay Austria for radar data? Why is Radar Siemens, purchased seven years ago, still stored in Kidrichev? Mr Minister, I would like short answers; but if not possible at this time, I will also be satisfied with written answers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u96	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u97	Thank you very much. So, I'm going to try to answer quickly, because in these minutes, of course, I can't answer all the questions, and then we'll answer them in writing. I can tell you that aviation noise is first regulated by aviation law and aircraft noise regulations. This is already the answer to one of the articles in the Aviation Act, which also provides an appropriate rule. So, for all the other articles you've mentioned now, I just don't know how to answer, I don't know the exact answer to which articles the rule was made, and to which I don't, because I don't even have the law. Therefore, I can ensure that aircraft can fly in the Slovenian airspace under those aircraft noise rules and that the procedures for arriving at airports and departures from airports are designed so that the expected noise levels in the living environment are within the limits allowed. In preparation, the provision on permitted total noise and the fixing of charges shall be in accordance with Article 115. We have a deadline for this regulation 24 months from the adoption of the aviation law; therefore, this regulation or regulation is in preparation or in preparation. As far as the radar eclipse is concerned, as you called it: indeed, on Monday 14.10., the technical service noticed radar malfunctions and then this system began to fall apart. [[this is a line for the transmission of radar data, the drop was 15 minutes apart]] . As a result, the operation of the aircraft has undergone the so-called procedural mode of air traffic management. The competent civil aviation management services reacted immediately and this radar also enabled them to operate normally. I would like to point out that restrictions on traffic have also been introduced, which allowed all traffic, of course, to be 100 % safe and that neither the aircraft in the air nor the settlement in the immediate vicinity of the airport have been compromised. With regard to the other questions you have raised, I will prepare a written answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u98	Complementary question. Please, buddy onion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, this is a real question for all the people who live in the lower part of the airport, especially the village here of Shenčur and also Vodice, as well as partly Kranj. And it must be understood that people are rightly concerned - possibly, with poor visibility of certain years of landing. It is about the dissemination in the public of various information, including the competent, who, in short, are watching over the radar itself. It was also clear from the diary yesterday that it was said on television that it was a restriction on the means to maintain the radar system itself. However, we know that the Republic of Slovenia purchased a new Siemens radar seven years ago, because it was also quite controversial at the time because the proposals were different. And here is also the question why so much money in some system that is now in storage. At the same time, we know that there is not enough resources to maintain this radar system normally. It's the same as there would be no means to maintain planes. This also poses a similar risk in all the surrounding villages that are throbbing at the airport. And this is a clear fear. However, as regards the first part of the response, with regard to the payment of so-called rents, this is difficult to expect - especially those who are actually threatened by noise and emissions. I would certainly like this to be communicated to the public: When should this regulation come in short? Many times this is a question in sent-in offices: When really would this happen by the government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u100	Please respond further.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u101	Maybe just a partially complementary answer. I can ensure that procedures are accurately designed in the event of any signal malfunctioning, any radar. All of these procedures shall be designed or coordinated in accordance with the international standards of IHAO, applicable in the control or management of air traffic. So there's no danger here. But the other questions, as I said before, will be answered in writing.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The next question will be raised by Comrade Levič to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dear Minister of Foreign Affairs, Dr. Rupel, nice greeting. In one of the Slovenian journals, I was aware a while ago that the new ambassador in the Vatican, Dr. Toplak, said the following in a speech on the handover of credentials. "In the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, and in particular the Catholics expect an agreement signed between the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy See to be ratified in Parliament soon and thus legally defined the attitude of the Roman Catholic Church and the Republic of Slovenia." In the same speech, he was also to state that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has been assessing for the last period that religious education is being promoted gradually. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask, do they hold the press's statements? What's your comment on that? Do you agree with Ambassador Toplak's statement regarding the fact that the attitude of the Churches - the state is already defined in the Constitution and that there are also laws covering this area? The Constitutional Court also referred to the definition of this situation as regards education. Did the ambassador have any instructions? I would also like to know if he may have acted contrary to instructions and consistent practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Comrade Levich. I give the floor to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Dr. Ruple.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u105	Dear Member, the matter you are asking is familiar to me and we have already talked about it in our ministry. This is how I would answer you. Firstly, the statements quoted in the media do not reflect exactly what the ambassador said or are somewhat torn out of context. So there is a difference between statements such as those made to the public and his whole speech. Otherwise, I would like to point out that this is a relationship between the state of Slovenia and the Holy See as an entity subject to international law and Slovenia has established diplomatic relations with it. So, on the one hand, it is the Holy Headquarters as a kind of international entity of a special kind, and on the other hand, the Holy Headquarters is viewed as the top of the Catholic Church, which, in accordance with the Slovenian Constitution, is equal to other religious communities in the Republic of Slovenia, acting freely under Canon law, in accordance with the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia. The agreement, which is under consideration and which we all know since it has already been in Parliament and is now before the Constitutional Court for reconsideration, actually regulates legal issues between the State of the Republic of Slovenia and the Holy Headquarters as a country or entity of international law "sui generis", and this is also evident from the very title of this Agreement. With regard to the indication that religious education is being promoted gradually, Ambassador Toplak, under religious education, had in mind the teaching of the world’s religions, of course Catholic faith. But I'd say the following about the third part. In fact, the ambassador spoke about the development of the noble values of the European cultural tradition based on Christian values and so on; he spoke about the development of the Slovenian culture closely linked to Christianity, cited the Brižin Monuments, the translation of the Scriptures during the Reformation, all the way to modern translations, interpretations of the Scriptures and, of course, that Christian values were also built into the foundations of European culture. This did not deny the existence and influence of other values. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u106	Would you like to ask a supplementary question, Comrade Levich? Please, you've got it. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u107	Just for a little while. In fact, I understood from the answer that the media had little to say about our ambassador's statement; so I was wondering: Why didn't you demente them? At least I didn't see it in the papers to deny the writing of these journalists. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u108	Mr. Minister, Dr. Rupel, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u109	He himself would not use such strong words as “encouraged”. Of course, you realize that the difference between a long - term quote and an entire speech is the difference. In the context of the entire speech, it is possible to understand the matter differently than from an extractive quote which may lead to wrong conclusions. Otherwise, I apologize and take advantage of the opportunity, Mr President, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u110	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u111	That's what I'm gonna say. [[...]] I didn't fully answer your question. The fact is that the Ambassador is obliged to speak what is the policy of the Republic of Slovenia and what we order him to do in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The fact is, the ambassador went through a series of test procedures at the beginning of his ministry or before he began his ministry. One of them is here, in Parliament. It enjoys trust, in fact, a whole series of institutions in our system. When it comes to misunderstandings, inaccuracies, and so forth, of course, we usually try to correct or clarify what is wrong. This is also the case today, and I hope that this will no longer have to be explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. My colleague Franci Rokavec will ask questions to the Minister of Transport and the Minister of the Environment. Please, buddy Rokavec.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u113	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, distinguished ministers and, of course, a nice greeting to all fellow Members and fellow Members! I've been addressing the question for the third time. It is a problem of maintenance and operation with bridges across major rivers in the Republic of Slovenia. As early as 2001, one framework study was produced at the Ministry of Transport, including within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia; and, of course, I was asked the question in 2001 that an appropriate issue should be addressed by increasing the appropriate consumption of municipalities in order to actually qualify for these funds. Actually, it's been two years. Nothing has actually moved in this area. The fact is, at least from the environment from which I come, on the relationship between the settlement Dolsko and Renkami - it is said to be 25 km long - is five bridges across the Sava River, which are actually within the jurisdiction of local communities. Local communities, only after the last calculation in this area - would require urgent maintenance and a serious restoration so that bridges do not collapse or collapse into the Sava River, only this recovery would require around 700 million necessary funding. Local communities in this area, such as Dol pri Ljubljana, Lithuania, are unable to cover such a financial contribution. Since such a problem is not only in this area, but also in similar other cases in our country, I ask the ministries and the government once again: What will be done to actually solve such a pressing problem? And second question, this is addressed to the Minister of Economy. This is my initiative, which I addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on 12 September this year on the issue of the abandoned site Sitarjevec. In fact, at this time both the mining inspectorate and the Faculty of Natural Sciences, the Geology Department, have explored this area and have found that this mine has never actually been closed, and that there is a great danger for the inhabitants and visitors of this area because they are unsaved and unsavory mines, as well as unsavoryly closed entrances to the mine itself. On this basis, I ask the Ministry and the Government as a whole: What will it actually do to ensure that this area does not become a serious threat to the inhabitants of the city of Lithuania? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Comrade Rokavec. The Minister of Transport will be in charge first, Mr President. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u115	Thank you very much for the word or also for the question. According to the Law on Public Roads, of course we divide roads into two categories. One is that state roads, which the state - on behalf of the State of the Ministry of Transport - is the other, which are cared for by the municipalities, and therefore the same applies to buildings on these roads. I am aware that some facilities are of greater importance, but above all their rehabilitation and maintenance are significantly more expensive. As an aid to municipalities, the Slovenian Roads Directorate has drawn up a list of large bridges and this list is mainly existing, mainly from those municipalities which have given them this information. Of course, the Ministry of Transport does not have any legal capacity to rehabilitate these facilities, to maintain these facilities or even to build new facilities, so the issue is more focused not only on municipalities, but also possibly on amending the law on the financing of municipalities. And as a Member, you also have the opportunity to propose an amendment to this law or to give an appropriate initiative to the government or the Ministry of Finance to change this law and possibly take these facilities into account. So, I can't give another answer because of the possibility that the Ministry of Transport will maintain, restore and build these facilities, of course, it doesn't.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Madam Minister, would you like to answer that part of the question that concerns you? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u117	Thank you very much. I must say, honourable Member, that your initiative has not been misled anywhere, neither in the government nor in the National Assembly, and therefore there have been no concrete activities.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u118	Complementary question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u119	Well, first of all, the supplementary issue is primarily with the Minister of Economy. This is happening today, it looks like it's happening another time. In fact, I have documented that the recommended 12 September 2002 was submitted to the post office in Lithuania, the address: Government of the Republic of Slovenia. I think that Mr Secretary-General is probably the first to be in charge and competent to arrange this post. Nevertheless, I appeal to you once again that this issue needs to be seriously examined, if necessary, I can also give you another basic initiative. In fact, all reports, both mining inspections and science technical colleges, indicate that this issue must be taken seriously. I appeal to the government as a whole to address this issue without delay with an appropriate weight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u120	We've been justified before, I think, critical of the Minister. Now we have no reason to. I must explain that the Minister does not have to answer the questions that you directly refer to her or the government. All the questions referred to in the Rules of Procedure must be signed either by me or by the authority of the Secretary-General and thus the question in writing becomes an official question. Please. Please, buddy Rokavec. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u121	Mr. President! In the introduction, I said that the initiative was addressed to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u122	You said Lithium, if I understood correctly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u123	That's it, that's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u124	But he has to come to my office to formally bring this matter to the government.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u125	I say that this was not a parliamentary initiative through a national assembly, but through a question from the Member State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u126	It's a different status. In that sense, I must take this time to defend the Minister. It is not necessary to answer such a question. But if you ask the same question over my office, it'll be her duty. Please. Did we explain the misunderstanding, Comrade Rokavec? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u127	I myself commented on the Minister's response only in this part where she said that she did not receive this initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u128	In a formal sense, he's right, as I was trying to explain. I think we've solved this misunderstanding now, too. Okay? Comrade Sasha Pece will ask the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u129	Thank you for your word. I believe in the truth, even though it's painful. I also believe that citizens and citizens of our country deserve a real picture of our Slovenian public finances. And in this context, we cannot go beyond the actions of the Minister of Finance, who, according to my assessment and the assessment of the Slovenian National Party, is leading this country to destruction. I cannot go past - also - Mr Drnovšk's speech at today's session when he estimated that all external evaluators are assessing our country, that we are successful, that we are a desired partner and that we are "a story of success". That we're a success story! Minus all state cash registers. Every Slovenian, including one who is not of age, every Slovenian who is born at this time is owed over 700,000 Slovenian tolars due to the moves of Liberal Democracy, over 360,000 Slovenian tolars owed to domestic creditors and over 300,000 Slovenian tolars owed to foreign creditors. The government has been trying to convince us in the last period that Slovenia is a fantastic master. We lose our property, we lose our financial pillars, we sell our pharmaceutical industry. The plan for the sale of state property, which is now ahead of us, in the form of a budget memorandum or component work, shows that nothing will remain of this country since 2006 to enter the European Union literally as beggars. And I estimate that it is right for Slovenian citizens to know this, that they know what awaits them and that they will be able to adapt to this state or state that awaits us from this address. As early as 1993, the public debt amounted to 303 billion Slovenian tolars. Last year and 7 years later, this public debt increased by a thousand billion Slovenian tolars. Please, where is this country going? All of you politicians, especially government politicians, are saying that "story of success". And let nanism be the only sad thing that actually hurts me. The debt of the former Yugoslavia amounted to $20 billion. Yugoslavia had 23 million inhabitants. The debt of Slovenia, our countries, these "stories of success" as you try to show us when you deceive - and thus deceive Slovenian citizens and citizens, especially economic operators on our soil - has a debt of $7.8 billion at this time. And with only 2 million inhabitants. In Slovenia we are currently more in charge than we were in the former Yugoslavia. But in order for the whole story to not be so simple, the government is still continuing its debt to [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] all forms: in the form of an increasing budget deficit each year, which will also amount to 50 billion in 2006 for the budget memorandum. [[...]] Mr. Rob: Where is this taking us, and why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u130	Thank you very much, buddy. Minister of Finance, mag. Robbery will answer your question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u131	Yes, honourable Members, we have heard some answers and similar questions today. Of course, these questions, as they are asked, are not based on methodologically correct data, but they come from absolute numbers, which in themselves, of course, say relatively little. What is a key factor, for example, when a comparison between the former Yugoslavia and Slovenia is, of course, the level of gross domestic product, the level of purchasing power; the share of public debt in gross domestic product, purchasing power and what is most significant and what is the right criterion for all those involved in public finances is the share of the costs of servicing public debt in the gross domestic product paid per year for these purposes. And if we look at these indicators, we find that, for example, in Slovenia, when we compare it, the country's debt is lower than the gross domestic product or per capita and is not debtable in the European Union or any Member State that has a lower relative public debt, except in Luxembourg's gross domestic product. Even when comparing Slovenian public finances with current indicators; and these comparisons are regularly, annually done. That's what everyone who monitors public finances knows. Two world institutions, if I may say so, are doing a current analysis. The first is the International Monetary Fund, which, in fact, has to prepare a so-called "country report" for its members every year. In short, a country-specific report. In this report, it assesses how public finances are moving, what is the stability of public finances and what is, in fact, the prospects for public finances in the future. Well, if we look at this publication, which is available throughout the world, used by the whole of Europe, used by all "rating agencies" and the most important investment houses across Europe, then you will find that, according to these estimates, Slovenia is among the less indebted countries, among the safe countries. And even when we are in debt, we no longer have this need abroad when we issue the so-called Eurobonds, we have reached the price that is practically reached and then reached by the German Central Bank. I would say this: all international institutions, all international experts, including the European Commission, in the last report, identify the stability of Slovenian public finances, the relatively better situation of Slovenian public finances than in comparable European countries, and yet we hear from the opposition that the situation of Slovenian public finances is terrible, impossible and impossible just before the collapse. I am pleased with this concern for Slovenian public finances and I hope that this concern will support us even when we adopt the budget. That's all. Belgium, France, Italy, Portugal, all have a significantly higher deficit than Slovenia; among all candidates for entry into the European Union there is only one, only one country lower than Slovenia, that is Estonia and therefore has 25% unemployment and a lower rate of inflation. So much for these relative indicators and the professional approach to the presentation of public finances. I propose, if you agree, Mr President, that we also respond to Mr Pečet in writing, comparatively, with all the tables, with all international comparisons, and then we are also available to him for further explanations, so that we will actually explain the situation of Slovenian public finances, what are the options and, of course, also the perspectives. This is official information, which is also regularly published in the publication of the Ministry of Finance and, of course, is also available to all Slovenian citizens on the Internet, in short, on the website of the Ministry of Finance. I really invite you all to look at this and make sure of a real state like this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u132	Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues will assess the Government's willingness to provide written explanations in response to the oral question. My friend Pece wants to ask a further question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u133	Real submission - Mr Minister, you forget that you are Slovenian Minister and that the situation on public finances is important, as Slovenia and Slovenia feel. Don't forget, in all your greatness and arrogance, that in our country almost 300,000 citizens live below the poverty line. When you talk about so-called specific cases or proper submission, let me remind you - your copyright work only this year: January 15th, you owe the country 10.5 billion Slovenian tolars from RS 28 bonds; January 15th, the same day, you owe the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia 60 million euros, RS Republic of Slovenia - for 30 billion Slovenian tolars next month; RS 31, we still owe Slovenia 2 billion 900; RS 32, 15 January - 23 million Euros to us. Next, RS 33 – you have us in charge of 29 billion Slovenian tolars, Slovenians and Slovenes. Further, RS 34, February 18th, we are barely in February, and you have us in charge of an additional 12 billion. In March this year, all data are from this year - an additional 14 billion. RS 36, same March, 18.3., you have us in charge of an additional 12 billion Slovenian tolars. I continue with April: RS 37 – owed 17 billion Slovenian tolars. Further in April, since this was not enough for the debt, you still owe us 100 million euros, Slovenians. I continue with RS 40 to May 15 billion Slovenian tolars; I continue with RS 41 to the sixth month - indebted to 12 billion Slovenian tolars; I continue with RS 42 - indebted to an additional 12 billion Slovenian tolars. Mr. Robb, what are you doing? I just told you that 300,000 Slovenians live on the threshold of poverty, and you all of a sudden come with information about how foreign positive we are. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] assesses. [[...]] This year alone, you owe us Slovenia and Slovenia with over 150 billion Slovenian tolars. Mr. Rop, be correct, get out of the public finances area!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u134	Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u135	I'll try to answer that. Of course, there's something to know, it's different to feel, and it's even worse to play with the feelings of the Slovenians. We can discuss here the threshold of poverty in Slovenia and at the rate of poverty in Slovenia. Even if Mr Peče had looked at these figures, he was obviously not interested, he would have found that this level of poverty in Slovenia is lower. Citing again - absolute data on the amount of debt in each month, of course, once again shows a complete lack of awareness of the situation in public finances. Indeed, it is necessary to know that in the last year we have achieved very important movements in Slovenia in the field of interest rate levels. In just one year, the interest rate fell by more than 1 %. The interest rate another year was approximately TOM+2. At the last auction, we reached the interest rate of TOM+2.8. This, of course, has been achieved through active debt restructuring. So, it's about changing actively - and we'll do it even more actively, we'll do even more of this debt work, and we'll, of course, spend even more on debt because of the bad debt, the bad debt I'm repeating, we'll swap with a better debt at a lower interest rate, for which we're paying less tax money. On our last assignment, I reiterate, we have reached the TOM+2.8 interest rate. The previous interest rate was TOM+4.5. I would like to say that, in accordance with the specific purchase-use programme, we intend to replace the entire public debt arising from bank recovery with a cheaper debt, namely TOM+3. The current debt is TOM+6.5. So, we can probably expect Mr Peca to tell us again how many times we have swapped bad bonds with better ones, he will see it as a crime of additional indebtedness. That's not it. This is an improvement in the structure of debt, it is active debt management, which of course means lower public debt servicing costs and ultimately, if you want, it means more than 10 billion additional resources in the 2003 budget, and we have said this in a public presentation that we can use for education, for technological development, for investment. We have finally begun to restructure public debt, and we are actively committed to this, of course, for development purposes, and we will continue to do so. How we do this is exactly and every year we report in a special report on public debt management, and that is exactly what it says. Thus, it makes absolutely no sense to mention how much of any obligation there ever was. What is a key information for everyone dealing with public finances is the level of public debt servicing costs. And it's going down and it's going to keep falling.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u136	My friend Patch, I see you want the word. I can only give you the word if you propose the application of Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure, otherwise I cannot give it to you. Is that what you want? Okay. Then you have your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u137	I sincerely ask if the National Assembly, despite its political expertise, will submit this point, i.e. the question of public debt, to one of or to the next meeting and that we vote on it tomorrow. But I would just like to say, Mr Rop, if we behaved as economic operators, as the state behaves under your leadership, we would have failed a long time ago. And that's the only pointer. You must not be an actor in the game "Catch the cash". This one's forbidden from us.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u138	Please! You no longer have the right to speak. You are therefore proposing the application of Article 246, paragraph 2, so that the Member who asks the question of a Member may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the Minister's response and that the State assembly decide on it. As in the previous case, in this case too, colleague Peca, we will vote tomorrow before the opening of the vote on the items on the agenda. Now we move on with the questions. First of all, my friend Mamić has the floor. He's sorry. Comrade Maja Potrat, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u139	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished ministers and Secretary-General of the Government! Dear colleagues and colleagues! The issue raised by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sport is the letter from the Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts. It contains three signatures, the signature of the director of the Institute, the head of the Institute for Slovenian Language Fran Ramovž and the president of the scientific council of the Institute. Three problems facing the Institute can be explained from the letter: insufficient funding, insufficient research hours and inadequate spatial conditions for the two institutes’ sections. The work of the Institute for Slovenian Language Fran Ramovž is extremely important for the development of linguistic science at Slovenian and outside our borders, and the results of the research work are also useful in other fields. The fundamental research of the Slovenian language in the present and historical development carried out by the Institute is aimed at researching the Slovenian professional term, in the preparation, production and publication of fundamental missing works in the field of Slovenian literary language, in the preparation of language atlases, pronouns and monographs, in the gradual production of a synthetic vocabulary of the 16th century and in a number of urgent tasks of the Slovenian dictionary, also important due to the current integration into the European Union. Let me mention only two: the Slovak part of the Slovenian spelling and the new dictionary of the Slovenian book language, which should be defined as a long-term task of the Institute. Minister, Dr. Lucia Chok, I ask: What are the plans for funding the Institute so that it can carry out its mandated tasks and cover the deficit in the future? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u140	Thank you very much, colleague mag. Spending. Please, Madam Minister of Education.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u141	Thank you very much. It is true that we have been dealing with the problem for some time now, especially the implementation of the Institute of Frane Ramovš with RC SAZU. There are 44 researchers working there and their regular flow of resources from the budget without other projects is 310 million sitt, which is not so small for such a group of people. However, we know that here it is linked to the very high material costs of publishing dictionaries and valuable material mentioned by Mrs Potrate. That is why in 2001 we opened a specific project for this Institute, in accordance with a regulation also approved by the Science and Technology Council. This programme was prepared by the Institute and by prominent scientists in this field, with whom we wanted to give this Institute a more permanent period of research. In fact, their problem is that not all of your doctorates of science are reaching you and that their group isn't strong enough to run for programs. However, the situation is improving. And researchers will be able to step into a more thorough way of financing through research programmes in 2004. This programme, which has been specifically endorsed in the world of science and technology, has given the Institute 17,000 hours to be completed in June 2003. And this concern of the Institute, of course, what will happen in June 2003, is, of course, justified. That is why the Minister of Culture and I have accepted the Institute and Leadership twice. I am surprised at the Institute's leadership that it has now come that it is not all the time since this project has been going on, that the staff picture within the Institute has also improved slightly and would have more conditions for 2003 to run for new projects. However, the targeted research projects that have been launched have not always been of interest, especially the Ministry of Culture, and the Minister of Culture is particularly interested in agreeing with them on the form and content of this cooperation. Besides, it's not fair to talk about the Institute's premises, saying they're places that the state doesn't support. The premises of the Institute are owned by the Slovenian Academy of Sciences and Arts. There are 142 million in the budget for these premises in 2003 for renovation or 2004 and 162 million in 2005. The Slovenian Academy of Science and Arts got them to clean up these premises. We are preparing a package of measures to create more permanent forms of cooperation in the form of public service, which will be financed also for the work of the government and for the work of ministries, so that we can also open up a programme of content that you listed and that in 2004 the Institute will join this programme. Above all, we have increased the co-financing of an instrument center, which has so far received 2 million, now receiving 21 or, pardon, 19, 900 a year. I think we've been trying to find a common language in several interviews, but I don't think that this way of sending images to the Institute is the most appropriate way to agree on the content of the Institute's work. However, we support that this is an institution of national importance, and we will continue to work with the Minister of Culture on this programme.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u142	Thank you very much. You want a follow-up question? Please, colleague mag. Spending.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u143	Thank you very much, Madam Secretary. In answer, you've cleared up a lot of things that you could ask me if you had more time. Since 1945, Fran Ramovš Institute has experienced several status changes since its establishment. However, I think that my question could be understood precisely in this direction that, at the time of Slovenia's integration into the European Union, when we stress so much the concern for Slovenian identity, we should give this institution a status form so that its employees will or will not send potentially partially misleading information to the public, because the public is extremely interested in the existence of the institution of national importance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u144	Would you like to add something to your answer, Madam Secretary? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u145	I support this view, and I think that this particular programme, which we are preparing with the Minister of Culture, not only financially but also substantively, is expected to take place by the end of this calendar year.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u146	Thank you, Madam Secretary. My colleague France Tsukati will ask the Minister of Health a question or two. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. As I have already announced in writing, I will address the question to the Minister of Health. In 1994, five pathologists examined almost 18,000 preparations in the cell hospital, 3,500 of which were made by a pathologist. During this time, an average Ljubljana pathologist examined 700 preparations a year, the Maribor 2,000. In 1997, four pathologists in Celje examined 21,500 preparations, which is 5,400 per pathologist. In the 1998 report, we read that cell pathologists have also been able to do the work with the help of external colleagues, I quote, 'only with extreme efforts have they been able to do the work they have accepted'; they have not been able to do it, as we know today. If the past medical affairs were more of an affair, 2,500 unaccounted for biopsy means a very serious matter. Of the 773 residual biopsies in recent years, 10% showed that it was an invasive malignancies. That's 10%. Of the 2,500 backlogs, 250 serious cases can be counted; how many of them may be later discovered, how many are already dead. Let's move to the clinical center. The waiting period for these extremely important investigations has been extended to almost one year, with the failure of the dedicated magnetic resonance apparatus. The waiting periods are likely to be extended even for chronography, even for ordinary ultrasound. Minister, aren't you afraid of more and more diagnostic backlogs and more and more late detections? Will these mistakes really cover the ground? In the case of 2,500 undetected biopsyes in a cell hospital, I am interested in the following: How will you handle the matter, Mr. Minister? I'm not asking how you're going to transfer extra insurance to mandatory, and are you preparing another exotic law besides alcohol and tobacco, but I'm asking you: How do you plan to prevent such and similar backlogs in the future?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u148	Thank you for asking me that question. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u149	Dear Member, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament! Delays in the healthcare system are several types, or at least two main ones. One is the result, I could say, of citizens' joint decisions, through Parliament, through a policy that decides on the amount of money and the extent of health rights. The consequences of such decisions are waiting times that we know and that we can influence by a different decision. These are waiting periods for heart surgery, orthopedic surgery, eye surgery, and you could list another area. We also accept shared responsibility here. We can change them, but we can accept the fact that our country has as much money as it does and that there are some waiting periods. And they're all over the world. Waiting periods or delays in tests, as happened in Cele, are a different story. These tests were already almost done, even already paid, and in the end, it was a human potential, for the final act of evaluating the already prepared sample. The answer to this question does not indicate any different burdens between individual regions. Even this moment the difference between Ljubljana and Celje does not answer that Ljubljana's pathologists have other responsibilities to have a medical university, to have some other activities. However, all Slovenian pathologists are available for all tests. After all, Celje himself, unfortunately too late, solved the problem. Without the intervention of the state, without additional money, when the internal controls actually carried out this problem, in January this year, they also resolved this problem within a few months, and this time of waiting is no longer. So let me say two kinds of answers and all these answers to the Ministry of Labour Health. Our duty is also to those waiting periods that I mentioned are our common consequence. There could also be shorter waiting periods if the health system was more effective if management were more efficient, if the location of existing money were more equitable and followed by a patient. We have already taken action in this area, we are introducing changes, and there is also a reform of the healthcare system that will cover this very area. We also introduce guidelines for clinical work and quality indicator, which will also try to prevent this from happening by means of rules. Nevertheless, we will not be able to influence the human factor, the part where every health worker needs to be aware, especially the doctor, that some things cannot be explained by the lack of money, cannot be explained by the lack of people. Every health worker, because of his professional ethics, if you want to move on from Hippocrates, must be aware that when he accepts a patient for diagnosis and treatment, he is obliged to carry out procedures reasonably quickly. If he cannot do so, he is obliged to initiate appropriate appeals with his superiors, and they must continue with appropriate appeals, which will lead to a decision, if you wish, in the end in Parliament. I would say, therefore, that, for the circumstances that have led to the cell case, there is no excuse, at least at this point in time I do not see it, that further research may show the modality in this process, it will show the responsibility of individuals and management workers in charge of changing the system, but not that they have accumulated investigations, even though workers have not been able to do the investigations that are intended for the whole population. And I could count it. My point is that the cell case does not indicate the general health situation and that the waiting periods in the health sector for which we jointly decide are something completely different than the individual responsibility for negligence in diagnosis and treatment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Comrade Tuck, would you like another question? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u151	This summer, the Medical Chamber’s judgment was examined and found guilty by an anesthesiologist who, due to the absence of another anesthesiologist during the overtime, performed general anaesthesia at an eye clinic. Since the operation was delayed, he had to rush to another hospital, where he had also been scheduled for additional work due to lack of personnel, he completed his anaesthesia prior to the completion of the operation. That's how the patient started waking up before the procedure was complete. Fortunately, there were no major consequences for the patient. The overloaded doctor is a dangerous doctor. Due to lack of personnel, the waiting period is longer not only for examinations and other diagnostics, but also for interventions. It is known that orthopedic clinics have even cancelled programmed operations. How, Mr. Minister, do you intend to prevent or at least reduce not only diagnostic but also therapeutic backlogs?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u152	Thank you. I'm asking for that answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u153	I would almost avoid commenting on the first event that you have described, honourable Member. It is quite clear that a doctor who completes a professional procedure on one patient has no excuse to call him duty elsewhere if he has not finished his work in the first place. Surely, as a doctor, you do not need to explain that some other operation in another institution, if really it is so necessary, can wait, because delays are actually made every day. But I won't go into the details of this case because I don't know him in detail. I doubtless, however, that the Medical Chamber acted appropriately in this case. We have already identified the shortage of doctors and other health workers. We also showed it this year at the time of the doctor's statement. In particular, we have pointed out that the lack of doctors compared to some European or most European countries does not necessarily talk about overloading them. The previous question just indicated that due to relatively less money than elsewhere in Europe, the number of services is also lower. So the question can be simple - we compare the number of surgeons who perform fewer surgeries with the number of surgeons in another country where there are more than one operation. Nevertheless, allow me to say that there would be no misunderstandings, we do have a small number of doctors and health workers, and it is true that we have decided to do so in this country in these ten years. Now we're making a different decision. The concept is to increase the number of doctors by 700 by the end of this decade and then by a similar number by 2015. I hope that in this area too, we will reduce the burden of doctors and health workers, as well as increase the availability of diagnostic and therapeutic health services for our citizens.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u154	Thank you, Minister Keber. Igor Štemberger will ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs the next question. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u155	Thank you for your word. I am asking the question of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Dimitri Ruple. I'm asking: what's going on with Plečnik's villa Grasberger in Vienna? It is the unique cultural heritage of one of the most important Slovenian artists, architect Jožet Pleknik. If Plečnik is one of Slovenia's most important artists, also recognized across the borders of our country, then our country should strive to get this house into its own possession. To get the house into its original state, as Plečnik put it, some work must be done. This transformation is even willing to pay off the Austrian government, which is obviously aware of the importance of the building more than our government, since the Austrians have also protected it monumentally. According to our information Plečnik's villa Slovenia offered for the first time in 1998 for an embassy, an ambassador's residence, a Slovenian cultural centre or everything, because they felt that the country where the architect was born would be most likely to appreciate the masterpiece. Unfortunately, there was no interest. On the other hand, it is offered by a private owner, but on our side again no answer. It's like we'd never hear of a fairy. With this villa in 1908 Plečnik built the foundation stone of Slovenian and European neoclassical architecture. And we should all be proud of that. I'm asking: what's going on with Plečnik's villa in Vienna? Have you considered buying this unique monument to arrange or relocate an embassy, a residence of an ambassador, perhaps a Slovenian cultural center in Vienna? I fear that the negligence of the Slovenian government will rob us of a unique cultural monument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u156	Thank you for asking. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u157	Your Honor! I think you come from a somewhat exaggerated assumption, but I will try to respond briefly and clearly. Of course, we were thinking about Grasberger's villa. Special group led by Prof. Sergey Pavlin also looked at this villa. It is, as you correctly note, for the villa built by Slovenian architect Jože Plečnik in Vienna. On the basis of the professional report delivered to our Ministry, it was found that the facility was unfortunately not in line with the needs of the facilities hired or purchased by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to carry out its activities. I would like to point out that this is an extremely expensive facility. The price at this point is about €2 million to establish this facility in a state suitable for diplomatic use, either for residence or for a cultural centre, as you say, an additional €2 million would have to be paid. Otherwise, I must say that our ministry is not competent to determine the importance of this facility for Slovenian cultural and artistic heritage. Other ministries or other institutions are responsible for this. Maybe the Ministry of Culture. In our assessment, in our cultural and historical assessment, the artistic evaluation of this facility has not been launched and we do not object to the Slovenian State trying to buy or try to use this facility. I have even spoken personally to some representatives of the Slovenian industry, the ones that are the most successful, so to speak, and perhaps have some money for such purchases to actually put this facility into Slovenian ownership to be taken over by some important company. Unfortunately, for our use, for a variety of reasons, which I cannot now list, from the location, to the appropriate allocation of premises and so on, for diplomatic use, for the use of either residence, or embassy, or cultural centre, so in our optics this facility is not appropriate. However, there was some talk about this issue in the public or also in the Slovenian media. I must say that those who know the problem agree that this is an interesting facility, but the use our ministry needs would not be the best. About the costs, about the premises for the Slovenian Embassy or residences, for our use. At this point, we are acquiring premises through a successful treaty that you know because it has been ratified here in this House. This contract allows and allows Slovenia, as well as our ministry, to own some very interesting sites that were once owned by the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. This will help the ministry, hopefully, with smaller or no costs, to make it better to say the spatial situation. Unfortunately, this is a different issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u158	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. The following question will be raised by colleague Franz Kangler to the Minister of Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u159	Thank you for your word. Dear representatives of the government, Minister of Respect! Slovenia has recently had two major financial or capital fortresses. One fortress was in Ljubljana, Nova Ljubljanska Banka. One fortress was in Maribor, New Credit Bank. The story with the New Ljubljana Bank is more or less well known. After a few years, this bank will be in the hands of a well-known buyer. Whoever knows the banking system and that part of banking that means the heart and core of the economy, and Nova Credit Bank Maribor is a strong capital fortress and also the heart of North East Slovenia and the North East economy, as well as the works of Primorska. I would like to ask: Is the government capable of making a strong bank pillar to link some banks to the New Credit Bank Maribor principle? Although I see, personally, this link and the basic purpose of such integration, in particular the purpose and support, regional support and projects running in the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore ask the distinguished fellow minister: Will Slovenian legal and natural persons also be able to own the New Credit Bank Maribor? What vision does the Slovenian government have with the New Credit Bank Maribor, according to some rumors that are running on Maribor and other streets today? Why do I ask that? I ask this because it is important and also in this place it is necessary to emphasise that Nova Kreditna banka Maribor has a strong influence and a large share via KB Infond to a large extent of Slovenian health companies. If we spend this bank overnight or sell it to an uncontrolled foreigner, we sold three-quarters of the economy, three-quarters of the companies controlled by this bank through some of the Infonds and capital shares. Therefore, Minister, please answer my question specifically: What is the vision and future of the New Bank of Credit Maribor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u160	Thank you for asking. I ask Minister Rob for an explanation and an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u161	Thank you for the question, Mr Member. As regards the further fate of the New Loan Bank Maribor, it is necessary to say in the opening that the Management Board of the New Loan Bank Maribor has already prepared its draft view of the future of the New Loan Bank Maribor on the basis of a special decision of the Government. And now we have a discussion in these days, first on the professional basis and the basis between the Ministry of Finance, the Supervisory Board and the Management Board of the New Credit Bank of Maribor on this vision. Before I answer which direction this vision is going, perhaps only that I am convinced that we have two financial pillars in Slovenia and that Nova Ljubljanska banka will be part of this pillar and will be the most powerful owner, majority owners until further notice, even in the case of Nova Ljubljanska banka. Although, on the other hand, it is necessary to say that this sale at the second stage of the New Ljubljana Bank has shown 9% of institutional owners that there is very little interest among Slovenian investors, despite the fact that an additional discount of 10% has been recognised, these domestic investors who have previously talked a lot about how it pays. I also think that Nova Ljubljanska Banka is on track to consolidate its business and become a strong, competitive bank when it joins the European Union. As for the New Maribor Credit Bank, we are aware of the need to strengthen its competitive capacity and capital adequacy if it wants to face the challenges ahead. Already in the next phase, as well as the New Ljubljana Bank, it is awaiting the restructuring of the bonds it holds in its portfolio. As you know, both banks have a very important part of their portfolio in government bonds, which, of course, receive interest, which are relatively very good, are not actually marketable. We will, of course, take advantage of the so-called colonisation and set up a debt-backed portfolio and a portfolio on the assets of these two banks that will be marketed. This means that we will reduce the costs of servicing these bonds and reduce public debt or public debt servicing costs. We believe that one of the important measures that could be followed is the merger of the New Credit Bank Maribor with the Post Bank. As you know, we just signed a special contract on the transfer of 65% of the postal bank's share to the country. We believe that this was a good first measure of capital strengthening of the New Credit Bank Maribor in order to make it a greater breakthrough and a greater market share of the New Credit Bank Maribor. However, in the second phase, the possibility of linking New Credit Bank Maribor with some other banks is, of course, open up, but at this stage, it will not be about pooling or acquiring New Credit Bank Maribor on the basis of state capital and the influence of the State, but it is about banks that are already more or less privatised and have private owners. These options are, as you pointed out in the question, both with Celje banka, A bank or some other Slovenian bank. However, we believe that banks must work together, reduce their costs, reduce their fees and adjust to a lower interest rate when entering the European Union. However, there is another thought within the government that might also explore the possibility of joining or at least putting some para-national funds into operation to rationalise employment. For example, I am talking about a regional fund for which I appreciate that it would make sense for me to go to the New Maribor Credit Bank and some other operations that this bank could carry out with its professional staff or staff for the country. Nevertheless, and despite this operation, it is likely that some recapitalisation and fresh capital will also need to be considered. So far, it is thought that this volume of recapitalisation should be around 10% to 15%, with this capital being, of course, used to penetrate foreign markets, and, of course, the problem in the case of the New Credit Bank of Maribor is that it will have to ensure adequate profitability, because the fact that this restructuring of its portfolio will push its costs and will have to be very streamlined. The thinking goes in this direction that you have directed, and I hope that we will come to an appropriate solution soon and that the government will act.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u162	Thank you. Another question. Comrade Kangler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u163	In some ways, I would like to ask the honourable Minister a further question. It is important that we know exactly how these two banks were rehabilitated when they were in crisis and that Slovenian companies and the Slovenian economy have been rehabilitating Slovenian banking, especially Novo Kredittno banka and Novo Ljubljanska banka. Today we know that the purchase money for the New Ljubljana Bank has been used, as a cartoon, to "flash" the budget holes. On the other hand, I think that if a part of the Maribor bank, the New Bank, is already being privatised, combined with some other banking pillars formed in northeastern Slovenia, that this purchase and this part of the funds raised by the privatisation of the bank of Maribor should remain in northeastern Slovenia. The statistical data, respected by the Minister, show that the economy and some other entities are lagging behind some other entities in some other areas. As for the cost reduction at the expense of connecting some banking lines between individuals, I ask you: Do you think that banks should reduce costs at the expense of the workforce? Mr. Secretary, I hope you'll listen to me. That's one question. Second, an essential question I'd like you to answer. You were talking about recapitalizing this New Bank. The difference is whether the recapitalisation is carried out by foreigners with their capital or carried out by our companies, legal or natural persons, with the same capital. I would ask you once again to answer my question: Will Slovenian legal and natural persons be able to own this bank or to make this recapitalisation at the New Credit Bank Maribor?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u164	Thanks for the extra question. And I'm asking for an additional response from the minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u165	Yeah, I'd love to answer that. Therefore, to be clear, absolutely clear, I repeat: the purchase cannot be used to patch any budget hole, the purchases can be used exclusively and only to reduce public debt. The recovery of both banks was made, based on an increase in public debt. In the structure of public debt is 42% of what was created due to the rehabilitation of companies, such as Tama, banks, railways, ironworks and the like. This purchase will be used exclusively and only for this - to pay the debt and rationalise the payment of the debt. It's absolutely nothing else. And this will be done in the case of the New Ljubljana Bank. As for the New Credit Bank Maribor, however, it is a fundamental idea to recapitalise first with the Post Bank, the New Bank of Maribor will continue to recapitalise. If the recapitalisation takes place, then the purchase stays in the bank, then it is an integral part of the bank and this remains in northeastern Slovenia and is nowhere to go and is used to strengthen the New Credit Bank Maribor. Maybe just what's going to happen to the cost, how they're going to cut costs. Of course, costs will have to be reduced like all other banks. Thus, those services they will have will be made at the price of the other banks. This means that all operating costs will have to be rationalised; on the one hand, they will have to borrow cheaper loans and even cheaper financial resources, for example, New Ljubljana Bank has received extremely favourable European financial resources in these days, including on the basis of this partnership with the NCBs, and on the other hand this difference between active and passive interest rates can only be comparable, competitive with those in the European Union. Therefore, all costs, not only labour costs, will have to be rationalised appropriately or increased. Once the recapitalisation is carried out with the Post Bank, of course New Credit Bank Maribor will have a great opportunity to increase the volume of business, to penetrate the market and, of course, to rationalise business if we want, so that with significantly greater traffic, with the same number of employees, it can eventually have more profits.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u166	Thanks for the answers. The next question will be asked by colleague Alojz Sok to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the Ministry of Environment, Space and Energy. Since the Minister of Agriculture is absent, we will then agree on how to respond. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u167	Thank you for your word. Dear Minister and Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. The 2003 draft budget rebalancing provides for a reduction of about 3 billion Slovenian tolars for agriculture. As a percentage, this is almost 5 per cent of the budget allocated to agriculture. In addition to the fact that this very current area, at least this is what it looks like in this pre-accession negotiations with the European Union, financial resources are somehow being taken, and I would like to point out that this area is also limited by some illogical rules. One such rule is certainly a provision on the safe disposal of slaughterhouse waste. Here, of course, I refer this question to the Minister for Environment and Space. We are required to examine the histological tissue of the brain to BSE disease in bovine animals over 24 months of age. However, in the next phase, despite the negative test, when meat is intended for human consumption, internal organs and parts of other tissues go into the cafeteria and are removed as infectious as dangerous material. So it's a harmless removal of these tissues. In Slovenia, every year this process, which is economically absurd, is actually economically absurd because it causes enormous economic damage and is not carried out by any European Union country in such a way as we do. In Slovenia this costs us about 4 billion Slovenian tolars annually. Between 3 and 4 billion Slovenian Tolars we give money. And it's easy to transfer money from agriculture to energy, Mr. Minister. I ask you: how long will you continue to think this way and do this nonsense that other European countries do not do in this way? In fact, this is a question for the whole government, but I'm putting it to you as a responsible minister who is responsible for this issue. In fact, this is the way the thermal power plant Šostjanj earns the most because you supply cheap fuel to it under such a procedure. And then we burn it there instead of using some other procedure to exploit it. Other procedures are known. Now the second question is, of course, if I have time in these 30 seconds, otherwise, the Minister of Agriculture is not usually among us. In one year, I think he was only once, and he's not here today. But I'd like to ask him a question. On 25 November 2002, it is said this year, a new rules on veterinary and sanitary conditions will enter into force in Slovenia for establishments where food of animal origin is processed. Some of the facilities funded by the State and also bureaucraticly supported are at this time [[the warning sign for the end.]] We were able to recategorize to industrial facilities, but others didn't. Well, I'm gonna end up here, and then I'm gonna continue with that in addition.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u168	Thank you. I give the floor to the Minister for Environment and Space and Energy. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u169	Thank you for your word. To the Member of Parliament, because you may have thought, you may be asking about an order on the treatment of slaughterhouse waste or harmless disposal. This is probably a government regulation on the implementation of the public service for the heat treatment of high-risk BSE animal waste. This is the name of this Regulation and it is a government regulation and not a ministerial order. However, I must say that the government has regulated the mandatory treatment of particularly dangerous animal waste in a way that is literally copied, like all other European countries. What's the point of this? It is essential to eliminate particularly dangerous parts of animals after slaughter and then, of course, also heat treatment such waste. It is thermally treated in a way that first boils it, and then this bone meal must be removed in the most appropriate way. The most appropriate way is to burn in a thermal power plant or a cement plant if this happens. This is exactly how all Europe does it. So are we, you're talking about the Shoštanj thermal power plant, at a time when we haven't burned this in the Shoštanj thermal power plant, but in the Hamburg thermal power plant, you've been asking different questions about why it's being exported and the money is being spilled somewhere else. But I would like to say what I think is most problematic in all these discussions. The fact that others do not do so is not true. That's exactly how others do it. But what's different with us, like elsewhere in Europe, is that we're a small country. As a small country, we only have one cafeteria. This waste in animals, particularly hazardous, is approximately 25% of all waste. Others process this separately in the cafeteria and then dispose of this 25% waste, for example, by incineration in the thermal power plant. With us, however, we have only one cafeteria, and this 25% potentially hazardous waste mixes with 75% of all other wastes, which are dangerous or less risky, and then all together in the form of bone meal is burned in the Chestnut plant. And here is this difference that is known, of course, in price. If we had two cafileries in Slovenia, and in one, maybe smaller, especially thermal treatment of only those 25% of the animal waste that are particularly risky, bipa would, of course, be much lower than the total cost of disposal of slaughterhouse waste. This cannot be done with a government regulation, but this is primarily the task of the food and processing industry, but I can say that the Ministry of Agriculture may also be helping to organise another competitive cafeteria in Slovenia. This has been a problem all the time in all treatments on the disposal of these slaughterhouse wastes and, of course, on the price that such disposal entails. Otherwise, apart from the fact that we have only one cafeteria and that it is different to organise this process than to process and remove it all together, there are no other specialities with us, given the conduct in all other European countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u170	Thank you, Minister Janez Digach. An additional question has been raised. Please, Comrade Sok.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u171	I think we heard you right now. So the difference is exactly that. We are destroying everything in this process and in Europe we are destroying hazardous waste. Dear Mr. Secretary! We pay $4 billion a year for this. So, with this money, we could have put up an extra cafeteria a long time ago. That's it. But because you're trying to shift money from agriculture to another area, energy, but don't fix it. I know this is a government regulation, but you are the competent minister for the environment and space. With regard to the second question, of course, I would like to be answered by the Minister of Agriculture. The problem is that with the 25th of November, when this regulation enters into force, many processing plants in Slovenia will not be able to adapt so that they can continue to operate as industrial plants from then on. This means that we would have the possibility of unlimited production. Those establishments that did not have sufficient financial resources and were not supported by the State will remain as craftsmen. This, of course, also means limited production. I don't want to discuss local issues, but the Ptuj slaughterhouse is one of those facilities that barely got the right owner a year ago. They're trying very hard to meet these conditions there, but they're running out of time. The slaughterhouse has great significance for the entire region. Here, of course, all I want to hear from the Minister is this: Is the Ministry of Agriculture ready for this deadline, November 25, 2002, to extend for at least one year? We know that we will not be members of the European Union in 2003. So we could do this without doing any great damage. Unless, of course, we are trying to monopolize this area in Slovenia with such and similar rules. It is said to ensure some more appropriate status for some and to eliminate others in one way or another. It seems to me more and more that it is the latter, but this will certainly not be good from the point of view of consumers in this country. Too bad there's no minister here. I suggest that he thinks about it and extend this period of adjustment for one year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u172	Thank you. Since the Minister for Agriculture is not here, I expect a written reply in accordance with the Rules of Procedure within 30 days. However, I will once again give Minister Kopač the floor to explain the previous issue concerning his area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u173	Thank you very much. Because you have made a claim here that there will be no further establishment in Slovenia because, if I have correctly understood your claim, in the interest of the Termoelectrica Šostanja, I must say two. First time. The thermal power plant Šostjanj is not particularly interested in burning bone flour. In some ways, it was almost forced to do so, although, of course, in agreement with the local community and with appropriate compensation. However, I must say that only burning bone flour also causes a great deal of material wear, because it is an extremely aggressive energy, much more than coal, which is why it also causes a huge cost to the Chestnut power plant. Second. That 4 billion tolars. According to your statement, I do not think that although it is much less money, there is no cost to the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, nor is it the task of the Ministry of Environment and Space or Government to set up this parallel cafeteria. It is the economic interest of owners or those who make slaughterhouse waste. I must say, I am very surprised that the food-processing industry, those who have to pay these costs, have not decided long ago to build their own new cafeteria, because I think this investment would pay them relatively quickly. But this is only about, I can say, the disorganisation of these companies, which I think should, in my view, come to the conclusion that it is worth doing very quickly or that they should have done it a long time ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u174	Thank you. [[The ad from the bench.]] In the process of this issue, colleague Sok [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u175	I would only ask you because you said I would be given a written answer - I would ask you to provide me with an oral answer, just as this is the case under the rules of procedure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u176	Colleague Sok, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, Article 247 - let me read it once again: "If the time limit in the absence of the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government or for another reason the Prime Minister, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government has not been able to answer the question, the Government, the Minister or the Secretary-General of the Government must send a written reply within 30 days, which shall be published in the Gazette of the National Assembly."
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u177	But the Secretary-General is here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u178	Further: "The Member who has asked the question may declare that he insists on an oral answer," this is now the second, "in this case the question will be included in the next meeting of the National Assembly." Now I give you my word. Is that what you're asking? [[It's over.]] Thank you. We're done here. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Given the fact that Mr. Minister in the case where colleague Sok pointed out a number of things that, at the beginning of the incineration or thermal treatment of these catheter wastes, had a whole bunch of corruption interventions, which I have also warned myself, I would like to make a proposal which I will first explain, stems from [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u180	Mr Jerovšek, this is not procedural. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u181	I'll make a procedural proposal. Let me explain. Since I was with my colleague Jakic at the global conference of parliaments of the Anti-Corruption Council, I must point out in this regard that 70 national parliamentary delegations, as a starting point for the successful fight of parliaments against corruption, have indicated that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u182	Comrade Jerovšek!
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u183	I will make a proposal which is legally justified. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u184	It's not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u185	It's justified. The best way to fight corruption is to broadcast the meetings as much as possible and to fully broadcast the issues sent. Since this is the most successful way of fighting corruption, I propose that, on the second occasion when the questions will be put forward, each meeting be convened, we begin one hour earlier, at one time, and that the leadership of the National Assembly provide television coverage from the second hour to the end of the questions sent. Because only with public penetration [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u186	Comrade Jerovšek, please [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u187	Through television transmission of all the questions sent, it is possible to fight corruption, which our people believe is extremely widespread in Slovenia. [[...]] More than 50 percent of the people are aware that corruption is extremely common among us. I therefore propose that we vote on this procedural proposal tomorrow.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u188	Thank you. Your debate falls through your head of the parliamentary group to the college to discuss this matter there. Sonja Areh Lavrič has been announced for the next question, but she is not here. I therefore give the floor to the next colleague with the question raised, Branku Kelemini. The question of dispatch is addressed to the Minister of Economy. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u189	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together! Dear Minister! In the summer of 1999, the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia adopted a law on the promotion of coherent regional development. This law, of course, provided for, or all of us, great hopes for, this law, both by then by members of the National Assembly and by the general Slovenian public, expected this law to actually contribute to reducing regional differences in the country. Unfortunately, however, today, after three years, it is likely that, as with most laws, it was again a major fraud by the government. Obviously it was a lie, because we have found or even the UMAR has found, according to the latest data, that I have here a modest article to increase regional differences in the country and that this law, which we so expected, has not produced the desired effects and is not implemented as envisaged. We have set up institutions at national level, we have set up institutions at regional level, we have thrown in huge amounts, hundreds of millions, money to set up an organisation, 100 million money has been thrown out to produce strategic development programmes, and there are also implementation development programmes, but there is no money for these programmes. I don't know where you found a provision in the law, which I would ask you to explain to me, some different types of incentives, about indirect and direct regional incentives. This provision is not in the law, and you actually made it up. The report we discussed this summer shows that there should be direct regional incentives to be received by the regions for about 4 billion tolars and that the total aid should be 83 billion. That's what it says here. The law states in Article 9 or Article 19 that 1% of gross domestic product should be regional development. This would be about 50 billion, given today's height, something like this, now we will not discuss these border numbers, but if it already amounts to 79 or 83 billion today, or in 1991 for regional development, then this law has been completely adopted without a relationship. I would ask you: How do you imagine the realization of these fundamental solutions that regions so urgently need to come from the backwardness in which they are today? The problems at the regional level are so high that in fact existing municipalities and all other existing institutions are no longer able to solve them, [[...]] [[A warning for the end.]] There is no incentive. [[...]] I would ask you to explain how we should address these questions.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u190	Thank you for that question. Madam Secretary, you have the floor, please. Comrade Kelemin, turn it off.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u191	Dear Member, thank you for asking. I can say that this law will be fully implemented in 2003 when we come to programme funding. This will allow us, in line with this programme funding, to essentially give priority to funding to the eight most lagging regions in development. At the same time, in addition to the financing of these regional programmes prepared by these regional agencies of these regions, which are most lagging in development, certain programmes related to the co-financing of local infrastructure and on the basis of calls for proposals in line with the principles of Phare will be financed. As regards direct and direct regional aid, the situation is as follows. For the first time in the Ministry of Economy, we have an estimated 5.5 billion Sit in our 2003 budget and 7.3 billion Tolars in 2004. This shows that the funds are in 2003 [[?]] increased by 34%, by almost 35%, and by 34% in 2004. We can also add to this the envisaged funding of Phare grants, which for the two-year period 2003-2004 total an additional 4.3 billion tolars. Here is the sum, not a small sum, intended for these direct forms of aid In addition, the ministries are committed, in accordance with the conclusions of the Structural Policy Council, to give more points in their calls to those applicants from certain regions that are developing in a worse position than others. It was precisely on the basis of these indirect state aids that the State budget incentives were found on the basis of the data we received from the ministries that in 2001 it was intended for these indirect regional development aids of 79 billion. Indeed, it is necessary to know that companies asking for help or for congregations and so forth are, of course, located in a region. By giving a greater weight to those applicants coming from these less developed regions, of course, they also gain relative weight in relation to other more funds. This is an additional way to reduce these differences. I can also give you information to illustrate that, for example, for Pmurje, based solely on these indirect assistance provided by our own ministry, the Ministry of Economy, will generate 310, 320 new jobs by 2004. These are, for example, the additional incentives that companies or congregations receive in these less developed areas because they are weighted more. Thus, together with all these measures, these differences in regions are being reduced. I think that a significantly greater impact will be possible just in 2003, when, as I said, these indirect aids will be given priority to those regions that are lagging behind, which is about eight regions, on the basis of this programme funding. Programme funding has only started this year and will be fully operational in the following year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u192	Thank you for your answer, Madam Secretary. Comrade Kelemin, would you like to ask an additional question?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u193	Thank you very much, but I'd like to take this opportunity. Dear Madam Secretary! I understand you want to do the best you can, but I'm telling you, we can't wait until 2004. By 2004, if we wait for this law to come to life, there will be thousands and thousands of new people on the roads. And I can't imagine what we're actually going to do in this country to stop it. In fact, it is the responsibility of the government to bring this law to life in its entirety before it. I imagined, and when we adopted this law, we pictured that this 1% gross domestic product of own resources set to promote regional development, plus, of course, the European Community funds from different levels. That's what we imagined. On the Committee on the Economy, when we discussed this report, I also said, or in the light of the report that was submitted, that I proposed to the Committee of the National Assembly that we simply discuss the implementation of this law in the National Assembly, whether this law is actually being implemented as it was intended when we adopted it - in essence interpretation and analysis of the implementation of this law. To date, the Committee on the Economy has done absolutely nothing in this area. He didn't. That is why I have great doubts as to what I can do alone as an opposition Member in this case. Therefore, there is no other solution than to suggest that all Members are somehow involved in this process or in all the groups of Members. I would therefore ask and require that, in accordance with Article 266(2), a debate be held in the national assembly and that the parliamentary groups also indicate whether this law is being implemented as it must, whether these incentives are sufficient or what needs to be done in this area to try this inevitable situation critically in that country.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u194	Thank you, colleague Kelemina. We will decide on this proposal tomorrow in the framework of a joint vote. Now I'd like to ask the Minister for an additional answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u195	Thank you very much. I just wanted to add to the fact that this law had already been implemented. The funds were earmarked from 1999 onwards, from 2000 onwards, that I did not quote 2004 but 2003. This is said, of course, since 2000, regional development programmes have been implemented according to budgetary resources, including 2001, 2002, and we are moving to programme funding in 2003 and I think there will be an additional positive momentum.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u196	Thank you. A colleague, Ana Marija Tisovic, will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Hello, Madam Minister, Madam Ministers and other colleagues! In order to cover the cost of living during the study, a number of students have to find additional earnings, although we have a relatively well-developed system of scholarships and subsidisation of student apartments. With a view to the intervention of the student work, student services have been established with which the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs has concluded concession contracts. These contracts are slightly less than 70. The Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act provides that the student labour transfer fee may be allocated to the work of the student organisation of the university, the independent higher education institution and the interesting forms of integration of students and students. But there's nothing to say what they can use it for. In fact, there is no real control over the use of the student tithe. 10% of the earnings from the student work given mainly by the poorer students, since the wealthier ones do not have to look for such work, the law says that financial and material business and the availability of the funds obtained take place on condition and in a manner determined by the law and acts of the student organisation of Slovenia. There is no such single organisation in Slovenia. The services of the National Assembly wanted to make a comparative study of this issue in other European countries, finding that our organisation of student work is not at all comparable to the organisation of student work in other European countries. We're unique in this area. I wonder what happens when Slovenia becomes a full member of the European Union. The media has repeatedly reported on the affairs related to this so-called student money. Also, some employers take advantage of that legal void for their own benefit. In addition, it has been said recently that this money is also used to finance the electoral campaign of certain parties, which is certainly unacceptable if this is true. So I'm asking the Minister. How, when and when will you go to the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to regulate the problem legally? Especially to the satisfaction of the students who work and contribute this money and not only to the individual groups who enjoy this money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u198	Thank you. Minister Dimovski, please respond. You have 5 minutes. Can you turn it off, Mrs. Tisovic? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u199	Thank you very much, honourable Member for this question, which was also, in fact, part a description of this whole system of intervention of work for students and students. Let me say that the legal basis for this is quite broad, as stated in the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act, at the same time a regulation for the intervention of occasional and permanent works to students and students is prepared on this basis. Of course, the student constitution is important as far as purpose is concerned. Let me begin by saying that the funds allocated to student services, on the one hand to student organisations and on the other hand to student clubs, are not budgetary resources. That's a first. The system is built in a way that enables students to obtain a 10% commission to intervene. Of this 10% commission, according to Article 22 of the Rules of Intervention, works are allowed for student services to recognise certain costs, such as material costs, salaries and certain costs, including health insurance costs. The difference that arises is then intended for students’ ŠOUs, this is called the ŠOU in Ljubljana and the ŠOU in Maribor and the student clubs. Well, this difference must be at least 35 percent. Let me tell you, for 2001, this was last year, so the university's student organisations were dedicated to 1.1, four, two billion, while the student clubs were allocated a little over 800 million. This is what the funds now form - this is the whole of the funds, which are then intended for those organisations that are registered in the SOS register, according to the student communities of Slovenia. Well, now it's about the same system. Now, specifically, individual spending purposes are defined by Article 14 of the student constitution and so on. As regards supervision, the Ministry is, of course, enabled as a concessionaire to look into individual concession contracts and to control the implementation of these concession contracts, as well as procedures and processes in carrying out these tasks of labour intervention. While supervision of the use of student club funds is defined by the student constitution and is in the hands of the budgetary inspection and other supervisors, including the Court of Auditors. So that's what this marriage thing is all about. In view of the size of this work, which is in fact incompatible with individual European Union countries, as you have already mentioned, let me just say what we have already said repeatedly is that student work is not part of the acquis and in this respect we do not expect any change after joining the European Union. This is not part of the harmonisation of the entry into the European Union, which means that students and students will continue to do this work. It is, however, defined by the Labour Relations Act as systematised jobs under Article 216 of the new Labour Relations Act, which enters into force with effect from 1.1.2003. What needs to be said here is that the purpose of the use of these funds is very decidedly stated, I think Section 6 of the Employment and Unemployment Insurance Act and, as I said earlier, Article 14 of the Student Constitution. More specifically, the university student organisation shall conclude a contract with the individual recipient or user of such funds, and shall forward this contract to the concessionaire, the Ministry, for information. Now, specifically for purposes it is difficult to sum up, because this is a large number of contracts for a large number of users, but they are specifically mentioned in individual contracts, which, as I said, are concluded by SHOEs or student clubs for individual purposes. At the same time, I would like to say this because we don't care how this intervention is carried out. Work mediation - i.e., the Regulation defines exactly how they must be equipped, if I may say so, these student services as intermediaries of this work, after the last count there are 76 with 148 businesses. That's why we're [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u200	Lock it up, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u201	That is why we have carried out a review - only so much because the Member has asked this question - of the legality of the work of the employment agency, and of course this is also a consumption - but if I had more time, I could also give some details from this report.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u202	Because there's going to be another question, and there's going to be an opportunity. Mrs. Tisovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u203	You didn't answer that part of the question, let's say, because a lot of employers take advantage of that and don't hire the employees who are on the market, but rather hire the students. You know why - because there's less duty. How will this affect you?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u204	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u205	Thank you very much. Look, this thing is a lot broader. I have already said that students work mainly in unsystematised jobs after our analysis, which means that these places where they are are are not systematised by the internal activities of companies. So that's the first conclusion. Another, if you'll excuse me, is an indirect response to some control action carried out by the Labour Inspectorate during the month of August and in part September and in fact reviewed all the elements of student services, from safety and health at work to health care and so on, to the questions they require, I would say, a complex justification. It is clear from this control that in most cases, in particular as regards, let's say, the elements that I can give you an insight, from the concession contract, registration and so on, we have looked at the ten elements, the larger deviations, so to speak, there was no destination. However, for individuals, there were the most derogations, which concern safety and health at work, accessibility, for example, disabled persons and the like. Therefore, we will propose an amendment to the Rules of Procedure for the Intervention of Parts to students and students. In fact, before each signature of the concession contract, it will be necessary to review the work inspector, who will then give his consent to this intervention. In this way, I believe that all possible deviations in the intervention of works will be eliminated in advance. So complete - to answer that question of yours - as far as complete substitution is concerned between unsystematised and systematized jobs is concerned, there is not, but with active employment policy we will try to influence in some way that students in individual places will then also be employed after a certain period of time.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u206	Thank you both. The next question will be raised by colleague Bogdan Barovic, Prime Minister and Prime Minister General. You cannot now appoint the Prime Minister, but the Secretary-General who is here. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u207	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues, colleagues, those who insist, respected ministers, those who insist! Slovenia is expected to sign the Treaty of Accession of the European Union in April 2003. It is intended to become a member of the European Union from 1.1.2004 or no later than 1.1.2005. Since the signing of the Accession Treaty, seven members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will be involved as observers in the work of the European Parliament and the Government will participate in the work of the Council of the European Union. And now for the question and the explanation of the question. Taking into account the principle of the division of power, where our National Assembly is a legislative body, I am interested in: How does the government represent cooperation with the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative procedure of the European Union? I know, but perhaps others know less that the government will take over the legislative functions that are within the power of this Parliament under the Constitution with its membership in the European Union. In the European Union, the legislative body is the Council of the European Union and only governments participate in the world. That is why once again: I am interested in how the government presents itself with cooperation with the National Assembly on European matters, because the National Assembly has the only directly elected representative body, the necessary democratic legitimacy for the adoption of legislation, including at the European level. However, I do not imagine a government participating in the European Union legislative procedure, but the decisions taken will be directly binding on this national assembly, although there is no guardian anywhere that these decisions will go through this national assembly and that this national assembly will, as the only one who will give instructions to the government in our wake, give instructions to the government how to decide. I hope that the question has been very clear and I also ask the Secretary, if I have a very specific answer or if there is no specific answer, if this answer is, of course, in writing as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u208	Thank you for asking. Mr. Secretary-General, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u209	Thank you for asking. Of course, I cannot give a concrete and definitive answer yet, but I think the fears that have now been somehow mentioned are also unfounded. The fact is that, of course, we are counting on the Government to ensure that, under the conditions of the European Union, the positions of the Republic of Slovenia are properly coordinated when making decisions in the bodies of the European Union. In this regard, the Government has also appointed a special working group to prepare a model for this coordination last October. I can say that this coordination is based on the constant link between the Permanent Representation of the Republic of Slovenia in Brussels and some central authority, as we would call it, in Slovenia and, of course, also on some permanent coordination of the debtors in specific areas, whose task will be to prepare harmonised positions for the work of the representatives of the Republic of Slovenia in the European bodies. I can also ensure that there are several models in play, including in this segment of the cooperation of the National Assembly. Of course, I must say that there is no claim that anyone would take over the legislative function of the European Parliament, because it is, or will be, the responsibility of the European Parliament and, as far as I know, except perhaps in the first two years, Members of the European Parliament will also be elected directly in the Republic of Slovenia. They will act as legislative officers in the European Parliament. Nevertheless, I can also comfort the Member of Parliament by presenting the model of this coordination to the National Assembly in a short time, which, of course, will also include the National Assembly and, of course, will be open to further discussion and decision-making in the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u210	Thanks for the answer. Another question, my friend Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u211	Thank you very much. However, I respect the efforts of the Secretary-General of the Government. I'd like to be very precise once again. Coordination is not binding. Secondly, there is a legislative function in the world of the European Union and there are only government representatives in the world. When the Secretary-General mentioned that we will have an election and that we will elect seven representatives to the European Parliament; if I tell you what they call him, colleagues I meet around the world and they are representatives of the European Union. The European Parliament is appointed, said and written by the Slovenian debate club. So, the fact is, the decision will fall in the world. There's only government in the world. If there is coordination, it exists through Kozak, and this moment is not found – okay, but it is not legally binding. It is my fear, Sir Secretary-General of the Government, that this will completely eliminate the role of Parliament, the one that is, after the constitution, the legislative body and thus, of course, democracy. For all legislation, once again, is being adopted in the world, and representatives of the government and not of parliaments are represented in the world. That is why I think it is right that we all think very carefully about this issue together. Because when it's written in 2005, it'll be too late. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u212	Thank you. Mr. Bandell, would you like another explanation? [[No, no, ……]] Thank you. The next question raised by Mrs Majda Zupan is addressed to the Ministry of Health. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have already talked about this subject today, but I think it is right that we should go back in time because in recent days the events already mentioned in the cell hospital have had a real impact on reading histological samples of patients. Certainly means 2,500 unexplored tissue samples of a large professional, ethical and moral pack in our health care, not to mention the removal of apparatus or apparatus. Mr. Secretary! In this regard, you have announced administrative and extraordinary professional supervision. We can hope that this is an alarm that will trigger the right measures to prevent such mistakes. What about in health homes? It's not long before she had to get help in a hospital where she was diagnosed with cancer and falsified, where you went for so much time. Finally, it was found that, following her last visit to the infirmary, a tissue sample analysis was carried out and should be immediately re-examined and properly addressed as a result of the results of the analysis. This did not happen, however, to the Kernekdo, who was responsible for this in the infirmary of health care, did not do so either out of negligence or perhaps to save some money, as the pressures of the health director in this regard, namely, the resources, are increasing. The case isn't lonely. In such or different versions, every day, citizens and citizens wonder how long and where this will continue. Internal control is definitely too low. That is why I ask you, Mr Minister: In what way or how will you establish proper supervision of the functioning of health care homes, both in the financial, professional and ethical fields, and also in the prevention of corruption, which is considered by people to be the greatest in health care? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u214	Thank you. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u215	Madam Member, Members and Members of Parliament! Thank you very much for that question. Allow me to say at the outset that a number of people in the public, perhaps even a large part of the public, are asking about events, mistakes in the health system, where is the minister, where is the ministry, how does it not control this phenomenon with proper supervision? This opportunity, although sad, I take advantage of the fact that this system, without its own internal control, cannot be controlled by anyone. First, it's a quantitative phenomenon. We have 16 million outpatient checks, 300,000 hospitalizations. Each of these contacts contains something, some also 10 or 20 professional events, at which every time a mistake may occur. It is therefore tens of millions of different processes, which, of course, cannot be monitored in detail either by the Ministry or by anyone outside the healthcare system. We have fewer than five people in the Ministry, just as a piece of information, who could be declared responsible for the supervision of health institutions on the basis of full employment. But the other thing is professional. The processes in health care are so professional that sometimes we barely find anyone else, an expert who could oversee another expert in the country. There are 40 or 50 specializations targeted and again a number of highly specialized services where possible mismanagement can only be detected by a narrow expert. Of course, you'll tell me that the mistake that happened in Celje, which is actually a bit of a nuisance, which is in the eyes and which is understood by a layman, is that it can be traced. However, exactly such options are very large in all of Slovenia. So, in any way: without respect for professional guidelines, without respect for professional ethics, the unscrupulous implementation of the internal development of the assumed - if this system fails, it cannot be replaced with any other. Let me mention that, despite the fact that these are extremely sad events that cast a bad light, the situation in other countries is also common because of these mass events. In the United States - I apologize for the comparison - it is reported that between 30,000 and 90,000 deaths in hospitals are directly or indirectly the result of a medical or health worker’s error. If we were to transfer this to Slovenia, it might mean 300 to 600 deaths each year. It is true that there is usually a deterioration of a situation that has already been difficult, but I want to say that there are a certain percentage of errors in millions of events. In addition to internal supervision, the law provides for several types of controls: professional supervision through advice provided by the Medical Chamber, administrative supervision by the Ministry of Health, and supervision of the Health Insurance Institute, which is mostly financial supervision. In addition, we can argue that hospitals are controlled through the boards of institutions by government or external representatives, and that the functioning of this system is certainly affected, while in health care homes the same is true - members of the Council appointed by the local community. We anticipate and are in the process of preparing standards for accreditation of institutions, in particular hospitals. Accreditation is already taking place at the level of clinics, i.e. at the level of tertiary institutions. At the hospitals, I hope we can get her in shortly. All of this will help to improve the situation. Allow me to say that public disclosure of errors and discussion of them have an absolute impact on the behaviour of performers and that these events mean, despite their unacceptableness, an additional impetus for improving the attention and security of Slovenian citizens. So I would say that our system of control, including by building a quality system that I have already mentioned in second place today, allows us to tell Slovenian citizens all about it. [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] that our situation is relatively similar to that of other countries operating in this system. [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u216	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Would you like another question? Please, you have the floor. Mr. Secretary, if you'll excuse me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Thank you for your answer. Let me ask you another question. Do you find it satisfactory to monitor cooperation with the Medical Chamber? And: What would we suggest to improve further in this regard? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u218	Thank you. And again, once for the Minister's answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u219	In fact, the extent of this control is a fundamental issue. The scope of this supervision carried out by the Medical Chamber is ultimately linked again to human forces and to the financing of this supervision. I would not want to go into the details of what it really means to exercise the control that the public is waiting for. By the way, what happened to owners, owners, 2,500 unaccounted for histological reports? It is very difficult to imagine even the physical, time-consuming dimensions of appropriate control, which should lead to the public's response. This is a fundamental issue in this cooperation, especially our physical size or if you want - smallness. And to return: without adequate personal consciousness, mission and internal control, we cannot replace this with extensive external control. We just don't have a chance to do that. And it wouldn't be necessary. The autonomy of the medical profession, to which its owners, together with me, so often refer, is extremely important here: licensing, renewal of the licence for 7 years, requirements for completion. All of this, however, allows greater security in the system from year to year.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u220	Thank you, Mr. Secretary. Dr. Jože Bernik will ask the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs. Dr. Bernick, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u221	Mr President, Madam Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague, thank you for the floor. [[...]] Before last June, I first said this Latin proverb, which I will now repeat to the Quousque tandem, the catilina, the abutre patitia nostra? But I'm just going to translate it into my own words: How long will the government be making fun of us citizens? In fact, I will talk about some uncivilised things that have been happening to us for decades, namely, everywhere in the cultural world, except among barbarians, the rule is that the dead have the right to piete, respect and constitutional protection. This is true of us, of course, for some of the dead, but for others it does not apply. Good. As you know, Mr. Minister, this graves law has been in the National Assembly for some time now, changing from Chad to time, but it doesn't move anywhere. At this time - and I would like to ask you this - there has been a fact that there is a parallel thing that has been initiated by the Cemetery Commission. That is, they have tendered for monuments to graves or tombs to be determined for themselves. This means - and I ask you if this is true - that this parallel path is actually a preparation for the government to resolve the obligations that it is supposed to assume in this law and then to get these things together nicely in such a way that it will not be unearthed, not the identification, not the burials of the killed. The monuments are supposed to go to the graves themselves, the dead remain where there are, no names, no data, etc. In doing so, they have no words, nor will they ever know where their dead have been buried, so that they will not be able to complete the purely natural human mourning that they have endured for decades. Now I want to see, what do you think about this thing, and why is it done? Second: When will you complete the monuments in Kočevska Rog and Tehari? Your Secretary of State, who works for the Union of Fighters at the same time - and also for the timely resolution of this ten-year problem - has promised me for a long time that this will happen soon, and it has been dragging for no more time. And [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] And this: What does the state's attorney do about all this? [[...]] This is not a question for you, but I am addressing it: so many words last year - this year, but in one year nothing has happened. Thank you very much. But to you, Mr President, I would say that you owe me one promise, that is, when I asked for one minute of silence, you said you would talk to the President and I never got an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u222	And the answer will be when we adopt this law, so we have not forgotten that, Comrade Bernik. Now I give my word to the Minister. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u223	Thank you very much. There has been quite a debate on this issue in the National Assembly as well. I would briefly answer some of your questions here, following the following order. First of all, as far as the markings are concerned. We do not understand this as any parallel route, but only as a way to prepare ourselves, because we have provided means of implementation in the budget or for the mark. So it's an ideal draft of the marking, which, after the adoption of the War Cemetery Act, is supposed to be on these graves that will be defined by the law. As far as the law is concerned, you are aware that the government has adopted a declaration in which it has advocated this civilisation and a five-way approach to resolving this issue since 22.11 last year. Unfortunately, the War Cemetery Act in the National Assembly is not directly affected by the government - its adoption. As for the very solutions or the graves themselves, the grave repairs - I hope you have recently had the opportunity to visit Teharje, where you have seen that many things have changed this year, that in some way the process of regulating Teharij has run out. The problem was, of course, as you already know, by a contract that restricted the modification of the Teharje cemetery in relation to the signed contract of previous years, and, of course, we reached an agreement with the author in the meantime that he had redesigned the regulation and that we have now finally reached agreement with him that this procedure could essentially continue smoothly. We expect that after the adoption of the War Cemetery Act, it will be possible to arrange all these graves and ensure an adequate fifth for the dead, because, of course, I agree with you that this must be done as a civil act. Let me also mention that for 2003 the funds are already earmarked for this purpose and, in our view, at an appropriate level, about 113 million and a half million funds, which will gradually enable all these graves to be properly labelled. As far as the answer or question you have addressed to the Attorney General is concerned, it is necessary, by way of a procedure known to you, to mark a specific location and to carry out an identification, which is likely to be a question that we will pass on to the Ministry of Justice and the state prosecutors accordingly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u224	Thank you, Minister. Another question, colleague Bernik.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u225	Mr Minister, I would very much like one of the governments to explain what a pieteta means in this sense, as it is written in this law, because according to normal standards or those proposals in the law - this does not fall under the fifth. The only piette I see in this law is this, and it is certain that, if adopted, all partisan cemeteries will come under the burden of the state. That's what they call us taxpayers. I have nothing against it. The dead are dead and must be respected and things must be regulated, while I think this applies to everyone but not just some. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u226	Thank you. And I'm asking for this part of the answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u227	Just what's going on in the last piece. In fact, graves are now arranged at the level of local communities. It's supposed to go to the country by law. This is essentially defined in some way in this law. Articles 2, 3 and 4 define the graves that the State will take care of.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u228	Thank you very much. We're on the last question. Dr. Andrej Bajuk will ask the Minister of Economy a question. Dr. Bayuk, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u229	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary! Dear colleagues! Remember the story decades ago when Elan, the former economic giant, was hit by leaders who looked at their own profits rather than at the development of the company. Their guilt was also found in the criminal court, but there was no penalty because the judge did not write the verdict in time. After long agony, Elan took over the creditors from Croatia, but did not bring them happiness or profit, so he was sold back to the Slovenian or Slovenian Development Society two years ago. Although the purchase price was not particularly high, according to some information circulating in the public, the State had to invest in Elan over 5.2 billion tolls in order to re-produce glass. With this input, the country is expected to become 70 % owned by Elan. As owner, it is represented by the government or the ministry under your leadership, which should monitor the business with the care of the good master. As the majority owner, the government also had a decisive word in appointing a leading team to manage the burdened Elan in the interests of owners, i.e. taxpayers and citizens, not just its own pockets. But it doesn't seem that way. Most citizens cannot believe in the Financial Diary that five leading managers from Elan have paid off on top of their high salaries, which we do not know, as much as $1.15 billion in the 2001 work fee. However, it seems that this has indeed happened, since some smart officials in Drnovšk's government with the administration of Elan signed a contract under which they would be entitled to half the profits made by Elan. Since they calculated that they had made profits in Elan last year, five gentlemen - among them the chief Uros Korže, the former director of SRD, as the current procurator of Elana, and Primož Finžgar, as the president of the administration - paid off, appeared to be more than the salaries of all employees in Elan. I therefore ask the Minister: Can you confirm these reports that we have read in the public media? Who signed the harmful contract with the board of directors of Elan? And: What will the Ministry do to remedy the unacceptable situation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u230	Thank you. I ask for your answer, Madam Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u231	Dear Member, Elena's management contract was concluded between Elan Begunje and Turbo Hydro d.o.o. Ljubljana, which is the legal successor of Skim Arter [[?]] Mr. Korzet, d.o.o. Ljubljana, as a performer or manager. The contract was signed: President of the Supervisory Board, Elan d.d. On the basis of the decision of the Supervisory Board of Elan d.d. President of Turbo Hydro d.o.o. on the basis of the authorisation of its associate and mag. Uroš Korže as Director of d.o.o. The rehabilitation of Elan was led by the Slovenian Development Society, when it still acted independently, namely, it is now in liquidation, as you know - in liquidation. At its 147th meeting, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted information on SRD activities related to the financial and business rehabilitation of the business system, Elan, with the aim of maintaining jobs and maintaining the brand Elan, and supported the involvement of the Slovenian Development Company in this rehabilitation. The money earmarked for the rehabilitation of the Elan system was given in a way that recapitalised the company, resulting in an increase in the value of the investment of the Slovenian Development Company. In that company, an increase in the value of the investment would have been realised in the case of the sale of that company to a strategic partner or it had already been partially realized in the event of the privatisation gap being filled or the obligation of the State to transfer ownership shares and shares to certificates, to pids and to the first pension fund or to the capital company. As far as your third question is concerned, I would like to say that the government has received the conclusion that the members of the Supervisory Board are not participating in the profits, but that the remuneration of the administration of individual companies has never been discussed and that the reward of the administration can be shared in accordance with the law, with the GNI. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u232	Thank you. Another question, Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u233	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, your answer is obviously not satisfactory, especially as regards the third question: What will the Ministry do or what will the government do? If I understand correctly, nothing. This is strictly unacceptable to us in this national assembly. We will require and currently require, under Article 246, second paragraph, a debate on this matter to obtain a treaty in the National Assembly such as that we can review whether there is anything else that can be done to prevent us from entering international circles in Slovenia or Slovenia, known just after managers have put 50% in their pockets without any risk-taking investments of the entire recovery, which was on the shoulders of taxpayers. I don't know where you know a contract like this in the world that's as bad as it's supposed to be if it's real. But since you didn't answer my first part, I understand it's really the way we read it in the paper. In any case, I expect that this treaty will be reached in the National Assembly and that we will discuss this Treaty and also decide because we are not condemned in our assessment to continue to tolerate these things sitting and silently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u234	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. Another answer, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u235	Dear Member, I must say that the Ministry of Economy had nothing to do with the rehabilitation of Elan. As a result, it is also not aware of the contracts they have made and I have provided you with an answer which has also been transmitted to us at the Ministry of Slovenian Development Society in liquidation, which has also led this process. Surely, however, if you have all the power of Members to look, of course, you gain these contracts and you are also interested in whether they are legally standing or not.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-10-21-SDZ3-Redna-19.ana.u236	Thank you. These were questions from Members of Parliament and Members. I thank the Prime Minister, the Ministers and the Secretary-General for Cooperation and, of course, also for the questions raised. I interrupt the agenda item on the basis of certain proposals from fellow Members and Members, in accordance with Article 246(2), in order to decide, in the framework of the joint decisions tomorrow, on the basis of the requests for a re-examination of the answers to the questions raised. I'm adjourning today's session and continuing at 10 a.m. tomorrow. Thank you so much and good night.
