ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u1	I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall from the offices and allow us to begin the work of the National Assembly. The text will be given by representatives of the parliamentary groups in the proposal for a law on equal opportunities between women and men. I ask all my colleagues and colleagues who are in the National Assembly to come to the Hall. There are many Members and Members who are excused, so that without the presence of those who are not excused, we will not be able to finish the work successfully. I can ask the leaders of the parliamentary groups of the Slovenian People's Party, the Social Democratic Party, New Slovenia to invite colleagues and colleagues to the Chamber. Are you so kind as to insert voting cards into the voting apparatus that I will have a review of my presence in the hall? Please! I ask the Secretary of the SLS Group, who is the worst represented at this moment to draw the attention of Members and Members to the beginning of the meeting. Please. Please, can you insert all the cards into the voting device? I think there's enough of us to be here. Once again, I would like to ask the SLS Group of Members to come to the Chamber. Please take your seats. Dear fellow Members and fellow Members! I'm about to proceed with the 17th session of the National Assembly. I regret to inform you that many of our colleagues and colleagues are absent. There's a lot of them in Brussels. I will read in the order of all those who will not be with us today, so it is so much more important that we are the ones in the hall that we have stayed in Ljubljana all the time. Colleagues Peterle, Horvat, Jelinčič, Kebrič, Jerovšek, Barovič, colleague of Dr. Gaber is here, colleague of Kramberger, Kavčič, Zlobec, Pucko, Dr. Brejc, Malovrov, Fabjan, Vučko, Lavrič, Pece, Kontič, colleague of Majnik, colleague of Rokavec, colleague of Podobnik will not be present at the beginning of the meeting, colleague of Brenčič, colleague of Zalokar Orazem, colleague of Spindler, Butolen, Juban, at the beginning will be absent colleague of Partljič, colleague of Potrč and colleague of Tanko, until the end of colleagues Rupar, Zamernik and Weber. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Press the "quorum" button. Let's find out who's here! 47 present. The National Assembly is concluded and may decide. We're at 18. Agenda items - Defence Bill on Equal Opportunities for Women and Men. We are here to discuss the groups of Members. Do representatives want a word? I think it is my colleague Petan's turn on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. It may be that we will also conclude today if there are no major complications. Of course it's up to us. Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! We support this law in the Social Democratic Party. At the same time, of course, we are asked what has been the situation with us so far, given that this law belongs to a group of Europeans: whether our situation has been such that we have not been comparable to Europe, or whether the situation has not been the same as in democratic countries, and whether we have had a more verbally regulated situation, and whether there has been some discrimination in the whole area or in the individual segments. As I said, although we support this law in the Social Democratic Party, we would like to stress that we are taking this law as the beginning of a professional approach and a comprehensive approach to regulating this area, not only verbally or that we may sometimes be carried away, but we want to be very much debated about it. The actual situation with us on individual segments is such that discrimination is taking place. We have already warned this party many times, of course in individual segments, but according to the nature and content of the treatment of individual areas. The fact is, we've been heard a lot, like nothing's going on and everything's been arranged. However, this law just proves that we were right and that certain things are to be settled, but at that actual level, not only in the verbal, when we all advocate equality, but in fact it is different. In order not to waste too much time, something has already been said about this, I would mention only the economic area, the field of labour legislation. In this area, we believe that legislation is not the right thing to do, but that there are major violations and the biggest control problems. We may have control mechanisms, but they are not effective or knowingly disabled or knowingly violated. The fact is that we have very liberal legislation on working time, especially in trade. This may be quite coincidental, but we are convinced that such legislation should not have been adopted at a time when the Ministry covering this area is covered by a woman. I'm not going to use the image of a colleague who said here yesterday that someone had a "feminist outbreak," to say that this woman had an "anti-feminist outbreak" as a minister - perhaps that's what you might say. The fact is, there are huge violations in this area. In the area of trade in Sunday work, work on Sundays and holidays, but this does not mean that we are in the Social Democratic Party against the fact that trade is also open. But it's something else. If we have such a regulated legal area, it is also necessary to have control and to ensure that employees receive adequate compensation for work on such days, which means adequate payment. Working at this time and then replacing it doesn't pay, but replacing it, it's unacceptable. It is probably also a public secret that double books are kept about this, double records: one for the inspector and one for the others. And of course this is not normal, it does not contribute to equal treatment of both sexes. If that were the case, I'd read one fact. "As the data show, compliance with labour law in commercial companies is catastrophic. This is evident from the Labour Inspectorate's report, as more than 85 per cent of the legislation reviewed is in breach. This is not only a matter of law, but also a lack of effective justice, since most of the court's inspection reports for misdemeanours are outdated." That's what they say, and that's just the area of control, the mechanisms of control. And we believe that this law is one of those that will allow a comprehensive approach, a comprehensive solution to this problem, and not only on individual segments, where I am convinced that this area is now regulated. And that wouldn't even require a marriage. We are confident and want this equality to be achieved to the end. And in order for this equality to not have to be legalized and to talk about the law. For when this equality actually comes to pass, then there will be no need to talk about it. We know that we need to talk about this at the time and adopt laws when things are not arranged, when they are not what we want them to be, because otherwise the law would not be necessary. And in such a context, we also consider this law to be the beginning of solving real problems and that there will also be equal treatment of both sexes in this area. Of course, I would also like to say that we are not advocating that we are now talking about quotas. If the balance is now broken in one direction or another, then we will say: now we have to prepare some quotas and balance the matter. That's probably not how we're gonna get the results. It's a true solution. But this needs to be addressed more life-savingly, of course analysis I think there is not much in this area of analysis - and some long-term programme for solving this area, not succinctly. Never before has there been a fight, nor has the fighting approach ever ended well. So I end by saying that we believe that this is the beginning of one concrete approach, one long-term approach and one professional approach, that we also regulate this area as we want not because it requires Europe from us, but because the actual life requires it to be regulated so that we do not cause ourselves problems. And as I said: in the Social Democratic Party we support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to my colleague Patrati, and she will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. I'm asking the rest of my colleagues if they can sit in their seats because they're disturbing the speaker.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on equal opportunities between women and men and the rapid procedure proposed for it, as well as the proposed amendments to the Committee on Internal Policy. There are several reasons for support. Let me just mention some of them. The proposed law is part of a package of European legislation, and its adoption is therefore important for overcoming the backlog, to which the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities in the European Parliament has also pointed. Similar laws have already been adopted in some candidate countries and are still being prepared elsewhere. However, like those countries that are making progress in this area, Slovenia and Malta have been explicitly mentioned. The United List of Social Democrats has so far supported or proposed measures in the National Assembly for a more balanced representation of women and men, but the proposals have not received sufficient support. We are aware that at least a third of women's representation at all levels of decision-making is necessary in order to detect their impact on decisions. It is therefore of particular importance that the time needed for the formation of the legislative text has also been spent in coordination with governmental and non-governmental organisations, institutions, political parties, trade unions and, last but not least, with the comments of the secretariat on legislation and legal matters. The Office for Equal Opportunities has therefore drawn up a coordinated proposal between the parties concerned, and its treatment on the Committee has also quickly become clear. And we want the political support accompanying this law to be an exception to the State Council to have a positive impact on the transposition of legal provisions into practice. The proposed law complements and extends existing constitutional and legal provisions, which unfortunately do not prove sufficient to achieve gender equality in real terms with certain new legal instruments and strategies. In particular, it highlights the national programme for equal opportunities between women and men, and in particular the introduction of education for equality. Among the extended powers of the Government Office for Equal Opportunities will be a particularly important activity of the advocate or advocate of equal opportunities for women and men to deal with cases of alleged gender inequality. In the United List of Social Democrats, we also consider the proposed solution to establish a co-ordinator or co-ordinator in each ministry for equal opportunities between women and men, while at least a specific person within the Office of the Ombudsman would be expected to play a more effective role in dealing with cases of gender equality protection. Let me get this. If the objective of modern democratic regimes is partnership or parity democracy, i.e. a society in which all social groups can equally exercise their legitimate rights to equality, appropriate legislation is the way to this end and the proposed law is needed as a umbrella law that enforces the integration of the principle of gender equality at all levels and different areas of social life. Its implementation and implementation by the Constitution and by the sectoral legislation of the established provisions, however, ensure a balanced social development of a more appropriate, i.e. better exploitation of human resources and, last but not least, greater quality of life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u5	Thank you, Comrade Potrat. Comrade Pohorec. He will present the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. I do not have any other representatives of the parliamentary groups reported. Then I will give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u6	Thank you, President. If we were to hold the vice-president's meeting now, we'd say, "Men for "fuzzball," and then we'd be willing to adopt the law, or rather we'd be willing to. In football jargon, however, our work is here in the hall at this time and we are considering this law, which we feel here and there, would not even be needed. However, when we process and read its contents a little more thoroughly, we find that there are so many reasons for us to adopt this law and we will support it. The Constitution provides women with equal opportunities, equal rights. And life gives them even more responsibilities than we do men, especially in carrying out their greatest mission: the birth of children, the mother, the guardian of the family, and so on. We are concerned that these equal opportunities or in many cases even women's injustices, i.e. their fundamental rights, are being violated. The same options for addressing their rights to equal positions, both in politics and in the economy, both in other professions and in particular in other professions - although we have the right to do so by law so that it should not happen: in employment, in preventing even becoming a mother, in giving birth to a child, or because this was not progressing at the time when she was absent due to maternity leave, child care and the like. These criminal events, these phenomena are in our society, unfortunately, too much. They are hidden somehow, when it should be given on a day, who, where and how they could be dealt with in concrete terms, because they are somehow more or less hidden, only rarely signed, rarely written, but they do happen. We will support this marriage. The amendments discussed by the Committee have also been adopted and put in place in support. We believe, however, that it is necessary to provide these equal opportunities to our better half. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Comrade Pohorec. Although there was also a colleague of Brenčič on behalf of the SLS Group, he is absent for excusable reasons today. There are no other applications. So now I give my word to my colleagues and colleagues. I don't have any written reports. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] Okay. Then I conclude the general debate. I invite all my colleagues and colleagues from the lobby and the offices to come to the hall. I'll wait a few minutes. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. We will discuss the individual articles and the amendments tabled. You have them on the eight pages of the review you received in the 19th century. First of all, I am putting, colleagues and colleagues, to the debate on the amendment of the Health Committee - pardon - to consider the members of the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons to Article 1. Before that, we will have to adopt a procedural proposal to discuss together the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles. This Decision will apply if at least one third of those present do not oppose it. I believe that we are hyperslipping and that we can decide on this procedural proposal. Please, we are voting on a procedural proposal. I'm gonna ask my colleagues and colleagues from the offices again to come to the hall. I think after a very disciplined work today we could close the meeting. There are no points that would be controversial, or that would be extensive, due to the scope of the amendments, so that this could be possible. It is true that 33 colleagues and colleagues are missing today, and this is the second part of this medal. Please, now I think we're going to be final. First, I shall put to the vote a procedural proposal in accordance with the second indent of Article 189. May I have your attention, please? We're voting. We are voting on a procedural proposal. This one's been voted. 46 present. 42 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] We can now move on to debate and decision-making on individual articles. We have an amendment under order number 1 to Article 1, Health Committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I shall put the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1 to the vote. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment under order number one. 46 present. 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was voted. We are voting on the whole article. We are voting in full. I'm asking all my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. I'll wait a minute. Can I please have my colleagues come into the hall from the lobby? I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall! The secretaries of the parliamentary groups, I have to say again, I would like to point out that please, for the second time, we are voting on the whole article! [[...]] We're voting on the whole article, second time! 48 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] We voted in the article. We have an amendment to Article 3 of the Committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We will vote first, so we will vote on the amendment under order number 1 to delete this Article, paragraph 3. We're voting! We vote on the proposal to delete this amendment. 46 in attendance, 44 in, no in. (There were 44 votes in favour.)(Nobody.) The amendment was accepted. By article 6, we have the amendment of the committee under order number 1. Nobody wants a word. I shall put the amendment under order number one to the vote. We're voting! We are voting on the amendment under order number one. 46 present, 42 for, none against. (The vote was 42.)(Nobody.) The amendment was accepted. We vote on Article 6 as a whole. We vote on Article 6 as a whole. I'm asking for peace in the hall! That's enough of us. I will put to the vote the second time the proposal to vote on the Article in full, on Article 6. Please, we're voting. We vote on Article 6 as a whole. 48 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 6 is fully adopted. To Article 8, we have a proposal or amendment by the Committee to amend the text of this Article. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the committee's amendment to the vote. We're voting. I'm asking for peace. We're voting. 48 in attendance, 43 in, one in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the amendment has been voted on. It is also a proposal to amend Article 9, a proposal by the Committee. Nobody wants a word. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the board. 50 in attendance, 43 in, one in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are on page 4 of the review where we have the amendment of the committee to Article 12. Nobody wants a word. I'm putting the motion to a vote. We vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 12. 49 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been voted out. We are now voting on the whole article. We're voting. We are voting on the whole article. 48 present, 41 for, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I take it the article has been voted out. We have a proposal for a new Article 17. Please pay attention to this change in the amendment review on page 4. Please, we're voting. We are voting on the proposal for a new Article 17th. We challenge the physical law - more than we are in the hall, we are less concluding. Once again, colleagues and colleagues, secondly, the proposal for a new Article 17.a. We're voting. 49 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I take it the motion has been put to the vote. We have a proposal from the Health Committee, an amendment of the Health Committee to Article 18. Nobody wants a word. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. We're voting. 50 present, 46 for, one up. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the whole article. We are voting on the whole article. 47 in attendance, 44 in, no in. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. On page 5 we have a proposal for a new Article 18th. No one wants to discuss it. The proposer shall be the committee. Let us vote on the amendment or proposal for a new Article 18. Peace in the hall, please! Let's vote! Let's vote for the new Article 18th. 48 present. 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We have a proposal to delete paragraph 19. It's paragraph three. It's an amendment to the board. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I shall put to the vote the amendment of the Health Committee under order number 1 to Article 19. Let's vote! 49 present. 42 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. I shall put to the vote Article 19 as a whole. One more time. Colleagues and colleagues! I shall put Article 19 to the vote in full. Let's vote! May I have your attention, please? Let's vote! 49 present. 42 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We have a proposal to delete paragraph 28. No one wants to discuss it. I'm putting the committee's proposal to a vote. Let's vote! 49 present. 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. We have a proposal to amend Article 30. Also a proposal from the Health Committee. No one wants to discuss it. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. Let's vote! 48 present. 42 for, no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. On page 7 we have the amendment for the new 4.a chapter and the new 32.a, 32.b and 32.c paragraphs. There's no debate. This proposal from the Internal Policy Committee Please have a word. [[...]] You have the floor, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u8	Thank you very much. This amendment would be worth saying a few words. In fact, criminal provisions are introduced for the non-implementation of measures or more precisely, a legal person shall be punished if he carries out positive measures but does not obtain consent. This is an unusual provision for someone to take positive measures so that the diction can also be pronounced, and then it is punished. I simply cannot support such a proposal in any way. And I don't think it makes any sense. If it were to say: he's taking action - then yes. You're being fined positively. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u9	Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and put the proposal put to the vote by the Internal Policy Committee. We're voting. Please. We are voting on the proposal, on the amendment of the Internal Policy Committee. 46 present. 35 for, 4 for. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against four.]] He's been voted. We are now going in accordance with the adopted procedural article on the other articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Nobody wants a word. I put them to the vote. We vote on the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Again, colleagues and colleagues. Once again, I put to the vote the remaining articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Before that, I will ask both honourable colleagues to take their seats. Please, buddy. Please, we'll vote in another. We're voting. Let us vote on articles to which no amendments have been tabled. 48 present. 43 for, no one's against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. There's the title of the law in the debate. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the title. We're voting. We vote on the title of the law. 52 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. All the amendments were accepted. Thus, the articles to which they were accepted are open. Do qualified investors wish to table amendments? [[No, no, ……]] Then we move on to the issue of coherence. No problem. That way we can move on to a decision on the law as a whole. Voice explanation, Comrade Petty Officer. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u10	Mr President, a procedural question.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u11	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u12	I don't quite know what's going on with Article 32a. It was said that a new proposal for an amendment to Article 32a had come. I was only familiar with the amendment, which is under review with 19.6. In order to avoid any assistance or misunderstanding, I would like to ask for a five-minute recess to see what the amendments we have accepted are.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u13	The procedure is over.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u14	I came by on time, but you didn't notice me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u15	Yes, but the procedure is over with the vote. Harmonisation amendments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u16	We've closed the second reading. Before the third reading, I'd like to take a look at this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u17	We've already completed the coordination process. I have already asked the secretariat whether the law is harmonised and has been answered that the law is harmonised.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u18	Well, I've intervened in time, only you haven't intervened. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u19	No, Comrade Petty Officer. You're not. Because I wait so long before every vote, it was evident from the work so far that someone might raise his hand and intervene in the debate. Please. No offense, but, yes, I was just consistent about it. Even when I certainly expected no one to intervene, I waited a few seconds. You, too. This time, too. So, unfortunately, I have to say that I did the right thing. So you can, of course, have the opportunity to request a 5 minute break. [[...]] I can do that. There's no need to explain. You can take a five-minute break if you want. That's your chance. We'll vote differently. Let's vote on the law as a whole. Let's vote! We're in the middle of a full vote on the law. Please, if you vote. 50 present. 42 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I find that a law on equal opportunities between women and men has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to ratification. We're at 19. Agenda items - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. Minister Mag. The digger wants a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u20	Thank you very much. It is not customary for the government to advertise on ratifications, but I feel that this document is still so important that I would like to give you some introductory words. The Kyoto Protocol represents the first concrete step towards achieving the objective of establishing greenhouse gas concentrations at a level that will prevent dangerous anthropological interference with the climate system. What is happening to us? In the last hundred years, this has been particularly noticeable. The amount of greenhouse gases, among which carbon dioxide is the most important, is the second most important target and then there are some other greenhouse gases, such as nitrogen oxide, chlorinated carbon dioxide and so on, all these gases, which are higher every day, due to the burning of fossil fuels, oil, coal and so on, are going into the atmosphere. Around the earth they slowly make a layer that prevents the earth from cooling down; hence, the heat that comes from the sun comes to the earth. That's actually why a warm beam effect is done. This effect causes the melting of glaciers at the north and south courses, this effect causes changes in ocean currents and, as a result, all other climate changes to which we are witnessing, including droughts, for example, in recent years in Slovenia, to minor snowfalls, if we talk about Slovenia, and to raise sea level, which threatens that entire countries, entire nations will flood or drive them to other areas that are higher than the future sea level. That's why something has to be done. This "something" means stopping or reducing existing greenhouse gas emissions by coordinated global action. That is why all countries within the framework of the United Nations committed themselves to the Framework Convention on Climate Change in Rio in 1995 and 1992 already in 1992. Slovenia ratified this Convention in 1995. Well, on the basis of this Convention, then the world community has been talking about implementation, and this implementation is recorded in the Kyoto Protocol. The Protocol was concluded in 1997 in Kyoto, Japan, Slovenia signed it at the end of 1998, but it has not yet entered into force and will not enter into force until it is ratified by 55 countries that together represent 55% of carbon dioxide emissions. Slovenia is, of course, a small stone on a global scale, as far as greenhouse gases are concerned, but Slovenia can also contribute its share. After last year’s or the successful conclusion of the Marrakesh conference last year, it is quite obvious that the world community will be able to gather a 55% majority, despite the opposition of the United States. For this 55%, of course, the European Union, together with candidate countries, Japan, Russia, New Zealand, Canada and, I think, even without Australia, it will not work if the United States of America opposes it. Ratification of this Protocol is substantively in line with national development plans, Slovenia, which are sustainable, and at the same time Slovenia joins the European Union's joint development orientation towards environmental, economic and social sustainable development. Compliance with this Protocol will bring some burdens. This will even reduce economic growth slightly over the long term, we have calculated that over the next ten-year period for a tenth of a percent. However, the sustainable development path, which is part of the effort to reduce climate change, promises coherence between sometimes conflicting development goals. On the one hand, we want to increase economic power, and on the other hand, we want to develop human and social values and preserve nature or natural heritage. That is why, of course, we must accept that some of these measures, which of these segments are not the best possible, and, of course, offer us the only way, in our opinion, to survive our civilization. According to the Kyoto Protocol obligations, Slovenia must reduce its greenhouse gas emissions in the first period foreseen by the Protocol by 8 per cent in 2008-2012, according to the baseline year. Our starting year is 1986, most other countries have the starting year 1990. We all chose the starting year when the emissions were the largest. After 1986, we went with some companies that had consumed a lot of fossil fuels down below, so the emissions also decreased, on their own without the country doing anything about it. Well, today we are due to renewed economic growth and, above all, to an increasing volume of transport around where we were in 1986, as regards greenhouse gas emissions. And trends are not good. They're weak. The volume of traffic is threatening - or a steady trend in traffic is threatening - that we will still have major problems with limiting greenhouse gas emissions, not just by reducing relative to 1986. Well, the Kyoto Protocol also provides for so-called Kyoto mechanisms. These are three: emissions trading, joint implementation of projects and a clean development mechanism. Why am I stressing this? You might ask yourself, 1998 Slovenia signed this, why we are ratifying it just now. The whole world is in this trap. The European Union, too. Because until the Marrakesh conference last year, it was unclear what these mechanisms were like. And it's those details that are most important for implementation. And until the countries knew what was about to happen, neither did any of them want to enter the ratification process or rarely do. Ways to achieve the Kyoto goals will have to be looked for in many segments of our everyday life. One of them is energy. There is, of course, a need to increase energy efficiency wherever possible. And it needs to move on to renewable energy production. But they're renewables, water, wind, biomass, sun and so on. Transport is an important area where greenhouse gas emissions will have to be reduced. This is, as I mentioned, the biggest problem today. This helps us to develop technology; the increasing efficiency of automobile engines. A number of measures will also need to be taken to revive collective or public transport. Many things will have to be done to reduce the use of energy in industry, in buildings and in the living environment. So to reduce heat loss in buildings; to ensure better maintenance and restoration of combustion plants; to switch to biomass combustion, for example, from combustion oil for example or coal; to build installations for all heat and energy production, i.e. cogeneration and so on. There will be a lot to do in waste, a separate collection. Biodegradable waste is a major source of methane and therefore it is necessary to ensure its recovery; methane burning on municipal waste dumps and so on. In agriculture, the construction of biogas treatment plants or biodegradable waste degradation and so on will need to be enhanced. Slovenia has done a lot of this already. We were, I think, a third country in Europe that introduced a carbon tax, I think it was in 1996, so to speak, we were pioneers, as far as that is concerned. We have recently, like many other European countries, adopted a regulation setting out the quantity - and I must say there is not a small - subsidy for renewable energy sources. We have made great progress in standardisation and in promoting thermal protection of buildings, air conditioning of buildings and so on. Of course, there are many things ahead of us. It's going to cost a lot of money. We calculated that directly in the budget about a billion tolars per year. This will cost all the Slovenian economy in the coming years, depending on the options envisaged here, from about 5 to about 10 billion tolls per year. However, as has already been said, we are entering the path together with the European Union and other environmentally-aware countries, on the path of solving the biggest, truly the biggest environmental problem of today, and these are climate change. If we fail to strengthen them, we will not be able to preserve our civilizations. I therefore propose that you ratify or support the bill and that you are aware of how many unpleasant measures will need to be taken in the coming years in order to achieve the objectives set out in the Kyoto Protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u21	Thank you very much. He wants a word from one of the MPs? On behalf of the delegation? Please. You, too, on behalf of the Group of Members, Comrade Aurelio? Good. First, the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party. My colleague's grandchild, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u22	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues! I'll be brief because Mr. Minister has been very exhausted. In the Youth Party, we support the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol, with which the Republic of Slovenia will also be more specifically committed to reducing greenhouse gas emissions, including, of course, the problem and carbon dioxide. We estimate that one of the fundamental obligations of the State to act with the nature and environment it has at its disposal is to act responsibly. The area of determination of greenhouse gas concentrations in the atmosphere at such a level as to prevent dangerous anthropological interference with the climate system is certainly a liability. The objectives set out in the Kyoto Protocol depend, in particular, on the number of countries that will ratify the Protocol and thus become involved in specific projects to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. As we know, the Kyoto Protocol is unfortunately not supported by those countries whose economies emit the largest quantities of greenhouse gases, among which the United States of America is most assured. Therefore, in the Party of Youth of Slovenia, it is estimated that, in addition to ensuring the activities provided for in the Kyoto Protocol, the States parties must also devote themselves to diplomatic persuasion to signing the Protocol and, in particular, to those economic powers which bear the greatest responsibility in this area, and among them, the United States is, in our opinion, in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u23	Thank you very much, colleague grandchild. This was the position of the Youth Party's Group of Members. Position of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, colleague Aurelio Juri, behind him colleague Beumann, position of the Group of Members of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u24	Colleagues and colleagues! The United List of Social Democrats also supports the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. In saying this, the Minister himself, when concluding the performance, drew attention to the dramatic nature of the problem of climate change and said, "If we don't control it, it can be the end of our civilization." The Minister himself is well aware that, despite the fact that developments in this area are still a great mystery, but in the announcement of experts, there are no major differences, they announce that by the end of this century, up to 2100, the average temperature could rise to 7 degrees in order to increase precipitation in the Northern Hemisphere to 30% and decrease by 27% in the Southern Hemisphere. Of course, these are catastrophic numbers that point to the seriousness of this problem. It's also true that we're a little pebble. Slovenia contributes to probably the lowest share of all climate pollutants. But it is important that we do our job consistently and join the pressure of that advanced community of the world to the greatest polluter of our climate, this is the American industry. And if this agreement comes into effect as soon as possible, such pressure will also arise, in the hope that the United States of America will also be in favour of this agreement. Once again: of course we will support ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Comrade Yuri. My colleague Beumann will present the views of the Liberal Democracy Group of Slovenia. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u26	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished minister! Since its creation, mankind has been living in harmony with the nature and the side effects of civilization have not affected the ability of nature to take care of the wounds inflicted by man with his selfish goal of exploiting natural resources and simultaneously polluting. The transition to the Industrial Revolution, however, began with the uncontrolled exploitation of fossil energy, threatening that in a few hundred years the world’s resources, which in nature have been on the rise for millions of years, will be completely exhausted. The consequences of unsustainable behavior are already apparent. The ever-increasing concentration of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere causes global temperature rises, melting of ice at ground levels, and we are faced with a serious threat after a sea level rise that threatens the sinking of certain islands and entire landscapes at sea. We are witnesses to such rapid climate change that not even the greatest pessimists have predicted. Slovenia is also not immune to climate change. In recent years or decades, we have been facing ever more pleasant winters, and we also see the emergence of longer and longer drought periods, which in some parts of Slovenia are already causing the beginning of desertification. We are also witnessing the emergence of ever-increasing storms, which in addition to direct damage. The appearance of reptiles and severe erosion events must convince even the most superstitious. It has to be said that scientists have been pointing out the seriousness of the problem for quite some time and proposing appropriate solutions: with different energy policies, the use of alternative and renewable energy such as biomass, water energy, wind energy, solar energy, the use of biogas, if I only list the most important. This is the only way to reduce carbon dioxide emissions and other greenhouse gases. The seriousness and global dimension of the problem were also taken into account by the international community, which adopted a framework convention on climate change at a conference in Rio de Janeiro ten years ago at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development. The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia ratified this Convention in 1995 and Slovenia entered into force on 29 February 1996. The Ministry of Environment and Space in cooperation with the Ministry of Transport, the economy and agriculture, forestry and nutrition is responsible for its implementation. Under the auspices of this Convention, the Kyoto Protocol on greenhouse gas emission reduction was adopted in Japan in 1997. Slovenia also signed the Protocol between the other countries on 21 October 1998. Despite the fact that the document has signed a very large number of problems, in recent years there has been considerable hesitation in ratifications. The United States of America has even announced its intention to withdraw from the protocol. It's the biggest polluter who's put the whole project in grave danger. Fortunately, the European Union joined the ratification of the Protocol this year, together with its members. A few days ago, the Protocol as the 74th country ratified Japan, one of the key countries to implement the Kyoto Protocol. Two conditions must be met for the entry into force of the Protocol. It must be ratified by 55 Parties to the Framework Convention, which are jointly responsible for at least 55% of total carbon dioxide emissions in 1990. An international conference dedicated to environmental problems will begin in Johannesburg in a good month, entitled Rio+10, where the most responsible representatives of governments and parliaments will review the status of implementation of documents adopted ten years ago in Rio. Unfortunately, they will be able to find that the situation on a whole range of environmental problems is still very worrying and that not much has changed in 10 years. This is why it is so important that the Kyoto Protocol will ratify enough countries at this time to begin the 90-day deadline for the actual implementation of the Protocol. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are convinced that it must be among the ratification countries that will allow the international implementation of the Protocol, including the Republic of Slovenia, so of course we will vote in favour of the law. We will also support an additional decision calling on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a national greenhouse gas reduction programme and forward it to the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u27	Thank you. This was the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Any of the other MPs? Please, colleague Jerovšek, on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Of course, we also support the ratification of the law on ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in the Social Democratic Party. We are aware that we are part of a globalized world. And in a globalised world, those who do not contribute most or significantly do not contribute to environmental pollution, in which case greenhouse gas production, also suffer negative consequences. And in today’s world there is no part of the world that can act ignorantly as if their consequences cannot be covered. Europe is particularly affected or threatened. Europe is the most endangered part of the world with the effects of greenhouse gases, and this also makes it the largest knowledge and awareness in Europe. Although Slovenia is not faced with weather disasters such as monsoons, tornadoes, global floods, we are also faced with extraordinary weather conditions such as extreme hot summers, droughts, snow-free winters, which have caused severe economic damage in agriculture and some other economic sectors in recent years. For this reason, we also welcome this State Assembly's endorsement of this Protocol and that enough of the countries of the world will confirm this Protocol so that they will put pressure on this Kyoto Protocol and the awareness of the importance of preventing the production of greenhouse gases in the world and that, on this basis, we will do something for humanity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u29	Thank you very much, colleague Jerovšek. Kolega Drobnič will present the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u30	Thank you so much for saying that. I would like to give the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the Kyoto Protocol. In the New Slovenia Group, we are deeply aware of the problem caused by human interference in the natural sphere. And this, of course, is shown to us in this negative image, not least by the change in time and the consequences of droughts, storms and other harmful consequences. These are not just - there are others who have appeared, but they will probably also appear. For the intervention in this way is always somewhat reflected by the delay; we will probably still feel it as the earthlings, not just as the Slovenes. Our position with regard to the European Union also requires us to sign this Kyoto Protocol and to implement it in our area. Small Slovenia cannot be excluded from all of this, so the efforts and integration of Slovenia are prudent and necessary. Within the European Union, these standards and this Protocol are one of the highest conditions and highest priorities. That is why, of course, we will also be asked about these things - not only as far as the protocol is concerned, but the content of the implementation of all instruments - of course they will look for how we behave. This also obliges us to make good use of various sources of heating, the use of fossil fuels that affect climate conditions. And here, I think Slovenia will have to do a lot more. This also means a certain greater burden, which will subsequently prove to be a rational approach to governance of the country and the economy. This will likely also open up some other sources that are less consumer, less harmful to life, to nature. Therefore, it is also appropriate to sign and adopt this Protocol from this point of view. So, briefly, in the New Slovenia Group we will support this protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u31	Your performance concludes the presentations of the positions of the groups of Members. I now give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. My colleague Petan asked for a word, followed by his colleague Kacin. [[five minutes]] .
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! It is true that this is a protocol that has international dimensions, but I would like to draw attention to another angle. For me, this protocol is not just an international convention, which is applicable in a broader area, but I do not see it as an international aspect, but I also see it as a problem that we have to face seriously. And that's exactly what I'd like to say. Kyoto Protocol - of course, that sounds very learned. And when we're talking about reducing greenhouse gas emissions, which are more species than CO, CO2, then all of nitrogen oxides, aerosols and so on, it doesn't just mean we're looking at air right now and pointing at those big pollutants. It bothered me because we were just pointing at one who didn't sign it, really it's one of the biggest, but -- otherwise no one will get me wrong, I don't think I'm gonna be the lawyer of that country that hasn't signed it, they'll defend themselves -- I want to say something else. With all these harmful gases that I mentioned earlier, that is, if we produce them, we live with them. Because if we blow up these gases, it doesn't happen to go into the air, and then it spreads all over the world, it goes to Europe. We live in that kind of air, we breathe CO2, we breathe CO, we breathe nitrogen oxides, aerosols and the like. That's the problem. We actually live with that. And now virtually nothing helps if we point to the biggest polluter who hasn't signed it yet, and we're inhaling this shit that we're blowing up ourselves. That's the problem. We ourselves have to face our emissions of all these gases, all these pollutants, and our concern must be that we will reduce emissions at our home to replace these heating plants, here I mean not only those big ones that have a few megawatts, but - for example - also those smaller ones that are individual uses that are obsolete and are putting a lot of gas into the air. This, of course, extends easily to the ground under suitable weather conditions. And that's where we actually live. This means, after all, that we also need to change certain technological procedures. That means we have to isolate the buildings after all. This, after all, warms the atmosphere. I don't know how little we've been talking about this lately, but there's been a lot of talk in the international public about missed mediocrity approaches and the drying up of some, not so many wetlands, or also, after missed projects. With this, we have reduced the groundwater in Slovenia — not by a few centimeters, a few decimeters, but by meters. We have also made it possible to change the climate situation and perhaps we have not been so careful about it. And I look at our Slovenian Kyoto at this Kyoto Convention, our contribution to this. After all, this also means restructuring certain technologies, certain segments of industry, after all, the transition from fossil fuels to some other, gas or use - the construction of Sava power plants is an ideal example of Kyoto for me. In this context, I think that the various new constructions of thermal power plants, which have been envisaged some time ago, are also part of this area, and I would not want to stir up any controversy because I do not wish to criticize this. Those were our duties, and we took advantage of that. They see it in this context. I want to say that we also have to accept Kyoto in this regard and not just point to perhaps some others, more broadly in an international sense. Here I would like to draw attention to what I have not noticed that we have already prepared in our country. It's a broader national programme. Because if we're going to replace the firehouses of the big polluters, we have to get some money from somewhere. Here I imagine that we would do as they do in the European Union, when the country promotes more favourable loans, or as much as possible that this restructuring is also taking place. Of course I also belong to the favourable financial conditions after all for the replacement of the hens, gasification of the hens and also for the most elementary matter, perhaps the one that is already quite in our mind, this is the insulation of buildings.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u33	Time's up.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u34	I'll be right with you. Here I see our own Kyoto and our own national programme, which will be the upgrade of this Kyoto. This national programme will contribute to Kyoto. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u35	Thank you very much. My colleague Kacin has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister with colleagues! On 13 March this year, we discussed a proposal for a law on ratification of the Kyoto Protocol to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. It is true that this was 13 March and 13 may have been an unfortunate number, but the debate at the time had to be stopped simply because the applicant did not have a realistic assessment of the value of the consequences of ratifying this Agreement. Ratification itself is an important action today, since this will include the Republic of Slovenia, together with the other Member States of the European Union, among the parts of the world which exerts effective and convincing pressure on the largest contaminants that do not come from this continent. That's good. But the implementation of this agreement requires much more effort in the future, and this part of implementation is actually just beginning. Therefore, I think it is important to emphasise that the Republic of Slovenia now has a more realistic idea, which speaks of costs between 5.5 billion and 10 billion Slovenian Tolars per year for the fulfilment of the commitments made. The way in which we will make the most effective use of these funds is a matter of further negotiation. That's why I'm going to allow myself a comparison. Just as we will have to start discussions with our partner on how to implement certain provisions after the ratification of the nuclear agreement or treaty, there is still a lot of work and real evaluation of possible ways and ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. Mr Minister has already mentioned that this is a matter of direct energy production in the Republic of Slovenia, because it is the largest emission. These are questions that will require a very in-depth discussion in many of the working bodies of our national assembly. I would therefore like to point out that, without a national greenhouse gas reduction programme, we cannot properly organise ourselves neither a debate nor a future work nor a financial resource to implement the commitments made. Therefore, it seems to me that today's ratification will be in place, and in the light of the additional decision that we will vote on, I would like to say that we expect a national greenhouse gas reduction programme this year, not somewhere in the far future. Without a national programme, of course, it will not work, so one of the decisions of the Foreign Policy Committee is also the intervention of a strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from 2000, as this document is now in force. And dealing with a document that has actually been exceeded by its contents should also contribute to the preparation of the national greenhouse gas reduction programme as soon as possible. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that, when ratified today, we also need to adopt a smaller amendment, which has already been adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u37	Yes, we have two more debates. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u38	Thank you so much for saying that. I am actually very pleasantly surprised at the reflections that the draft law on the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol has had in all the parliamentary groups. This shows that we are also Members of the future somehow and that what we are all seeing is that we are dealing only with history and the past, that we also know how to care for the future, not just us, but everyone else. In particular, I would like to thank Minister Kopač for telling us everything he expects us to do in Slovenia in the coming periods. I welcome the early development of the national programme and the implementation of the action plan from all of this. Of course, I would like to draw particular attention to the financial consequences. I mean, they are, however, also defined here in one way on the basis of the international standard classification and reports they are. However, I would warn all of us Members, including the Ministry, that these are the first assessments. It is likely that the financial consequences will be much greater when the problem is opened in one way and things are broken down. I would thus point out that the budgets of the coming years will have to give much more attention to this problem and to solving even environmental problems in Slovenia. I will therefore welcome all the accompanying conclusions, as well as the Ministry's efforts to pay more attention in this area, particularly in financial work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u39	Thank you, colleague nigger. Please, colleague Kelemin, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. Just for a little while. Given that an additional decision has been proposed. I've been thinking about it myself at this point, or I don't have it on the bench, I don't know where it is. But from what I hear, I think he's acceptable. That's all I'd say. Of course, I expect the government to fulfil these obligations, which will be imposed on it by this additional decision, because this is extremely important. However, there will be a great deal of need to be done in this regard, as the Minister himself has said. A number of measures will have to be tackled and so on. This word has been used many times, I hope that regardless of the legislation already adopted and where certain things are, of course, already taken into account and envisaged on the safe use of energy and so on or on austerity measures and so on and promotion through the organic fund; in short, a whole range of projects are already being implemented in our country. This is positive indeed, and I hope that everything else will also be done in time with regard to additional activities by the government and the ministry. I also expect you to give an accurate programme on how we will reduce greenhouse gases in Slovenia during this period that we have to do in these years by 2008 to 2012, how, of course, we will reduce these greenhouse gases. Here I might draw attention to the fact that it would be appropriate, at least so far as Slovenia can now accept this important document, to notify the entire world public or the country, all the signatories and so on, but that it would also be necessary, after my assessment, that the National Assembly or the Government call on the United States of America to sign this Protocol and mark them as a selfish country that looks only at its economic, economic interests and does not take these global environmental conditions into account. I think this is where the National Assembly should do something or the government and call on the United States of America to accede to this protocol. It is her duty as the world's greatest ruler - economic, economic, military and so on, to respect it. Even if they have broken it, it will certainly be a bad example for the whole world. And they can't afford that. This needs to be said firmly and we should do something about it. That's my personal opinion. Now, in a way, there's another question. I have not, however, drawn up any additional decision in this regard, but I believe that this is the duty of our national assembly and of governments as such to do something about it. That's it. There is more to do with this. If we are talking about these issues, it is one of the main problems that I see as well, and I think that there are many other, demographic policies, demographic explosions and so on, in these areas too; of course, this is not a matter of concern, but, nevertheless, we should not ignore this problem. In short, a lot of things are still ahead of us in this area. That's it. How would we do that now? If anyone has any other proposal, because I have just challenged some initiative on how to trigger this issue and draw America's attention to this important issue, perhaps I would leave it to my colleagues to advise or help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u41	Comrade Germich, did you want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Well, I was encouraged to discuss Mr Kelemina's thinking. So, myself, I would say that since I've been in Parliament, I have been very committed to the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. I think it is very important here to draw attention to the fact that Slovenia, as a country, has a very strong reputation in the field of environmental protection. Given that I had the opportunity to participate as a member of the Globe team both in the debates within the European Union and at the global meeting we had last year in the United States, when this, on behalf of the Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, was precisely the position of the European Union and the need to ratify the Kyoto Protocol, and where a word was actually flowing between representatives of different continents before the summit in Bonn last July. Here I think that Slovenia has been quoted several times as a small country, but in the field of environmental protection, both in the field of legislation and in the field of measures, and in the organisation of civil society, which is very important in this area, has a very untapped activity. Of course, the treatment of the Kyoto Protocol does not only mean the operation and prevention of greenhouse gas emissions, but it is an extremely important position, to be implemented, that is, an integrated approach to the implementation of environmental policy in various sectors. This seems important to me as a strategy, because these areas, energy, transport, waste management, are also a very important area of agriculture. Of course, what matters here is that in our heads the view of these problems changes. Therefore, it will also be very important when we talk about the Aarhus Convention, where it comes to implementing the codecision of the broadest civil society in actions that will then have significant environmental impacts. I must say that Slovenia also has a very important reputation as a country, with a very widespread biodiversity and, as such, also has a representative on the Global Europe Executive Board, where it can actively participate and represent its views and experience in this area. The important measures already implemented in Slovenia are also integration and implementation in the context of association activities, where we also carry out our activities by integrating these measures into the integration phase. And here I would like to say that, given that there is little participation in the Global too, that we Members can also make concrete efforts to strengthen us in this way, I would say to the Union of Members, so that we can also be able here to ensure those measures and faster implementation and the activities that will certainly be necessary in order to reduce what is expected of us as Slovenia. I think that the task is difficult, but, of course, it can be ensured by appropriate economic and fiscal measures, both economic development on the one hand and environmental protection on the other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u43	My friend Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u44	Thank you. Very short. I am taking part in the debate of my colleague Kelemina. We rarely agree, but I think the point of his performance is that, in addition to ratification itself, which will be a very strong signal from the international community and, of course, from our small contribution to the United States of America, this task must also be carried out and this pressure must be carried out within the instruments of our foreign policy. So that, in all the topics that we are opening up and when we get to know each other, we draw attention to this and to the need for the greatest polluter to be the one to bow to this agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u45	Thank you very much. My friend Bernick.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u46	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! I think our ratification of this protocol is just a first step and this is very important. Slovenia, together with other countries of the European Union, is late. If I know correctly, only a few countries in the European Union have already ratified this Protocol. Nevertheless, we have started well and I hope that we will continue to do so. Of course, it is also true that there is a lot of misdirection, duality and so on in both domestic and international policies. Some countries, which talk very much about how they will adopt the protocol, are still delaying ratification. This clearly shows that every country that has this problem is in the dilemma of how to resolve this matter with respect to financial and other effects. However, I do not understand what our country or ministry will do at the time of the final ratification of this Protocol, which I understand is expected this year in South Africa. What are we gonna do? Will we wait until the final ratification and only then take action or start with the steps that this Protocol requires of us? Furthermore, as I understand it, a strategy and a short-term action plan for reducing emissions and greenhouse gases have already been adopted in November 2000. So far, we have not heard enough about preparations for the national energy programme, as has already been said, and one would like a little more clarification on this matter. In addition, I was interested in the remark in this report, which discusses the trade in emission allowances in the common market in the European Union. This document states that the introduction of the common market in emissions will even be mandatory from 2005. Perhaps Mr Minister could say a little more about this if this is true and what Slovenia is thinking about doing so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u47	Please, Comrade Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I am really happy and I am pleased to note that there has been some fundamental consensus in our National Assembly on all the issues that we must face in addressing this issue. The fact is, as my colleague Bernik has just mentioned, that the approach to solving all these problems facing humanity today is that it is necessary for everyone to be swept away before their own threshold. If this ratification is going to mean it, I think it's crucial. All those who agree to this today will be very careful how our government will really implement all these things, so that we, as a country, will not be subject to the same assessments, otherwise some verbal support, but with the fact that we will be lagging behind. The attention of the National Assembly, as regards the implementation of all these promises, which we will now legislate by ratifying the Convention, is crucial. On the other hand, I also agree with the essence of the presentation of colleague Kelemin in the sense that we, as a national assembly, should also express our disappointment at the fact that one of the largest countries that has a strong ecological movement in their territory, which was crucial to the fact that this agreement has at present been lagging behind and is not actually ready to ratify it as it is. True, work is very difficult, as a colleague of the LDS warned. It's hard, but 20 years ago, it was even harder because there was no knowing everything. Very little has been heard, it has been more the subject of debate among experts than some clear awareness that actual humanity is like that, because the world is now one big village, we are all citizens of this half world and we must all take care of it. This thing is waking up slowly. We are happy to note that this has also occurred. I would suggest, this is an unusual proposal, Mr President. I would recommend that we ask the President of the National Assembly to make a working group of representatives of all parliamentary parties in order to make a statement in which we would express our disappointment at how this Convention actually applies in individual countries. We would refer this as the position of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on the ratification of this Convention and send this statement to all our colleagues around the world. I think that this is a constructive approach, that it will not remain only in words, that we find one common language and express our disappointment, our hope that all those who are responsible, and these are all the countries in the world, will actually come to this. If such or otherwise have problems with certain aspects of this Convention, they should come up with better proposals if they have them at all, not that this matter is still lagging behind. I would suggest, Mr President, that you create a working group from representatives of all parliamentary parties, that we design this statement and then transmit it to all our colleagues, across all countries, of course, including the United States of America. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u49	Thank you very much, colleague Dr. Bayuk. We already have such a group of all parliamentary parties in the National Assembly. It's a group within the Globe. This is placed in the international assembly of parliamentarians. She's being led by Comrade Beumann and I'm giving him my word. He wants to respond to your suggestion. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. So, let me say that I am very pleased with this proposal from my distinguished colleague Bayuk. It is also true what has already been mentioned. We have the Globe parliamentary group, which is actually composed of representatives or Members and Members of all the Members. My colleague Germič has already mentioned the work of this group, and I also call on all those Members and Members who want to join this association, which is committed to sustainable development and environmental protection and which is trying to be some kind of environmental awareness of this Parliament in order to join us. I promise that within the Globe we will certainly accept the statement that colleague Bajuk proposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u51	Thank you very much. If the contents of such a declaration were to be taken into account within the Globe Group, the competent working body should, of course, be placed in the procedure, since the Globe does not have those powers and then after the procedure to the national assembly. Anyone else? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. I would like to remind you that we have one amendment to this law, which is editorial in nature, but of course we are considering this law as being introduced by fast procedure, i.e. in the first, second and third readings. Now we're done first and we're moving on to second. I propose to the Assembly that, in accordance with the second indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure, after the conclusion of the debate and the vote on amendments and articles, it shall jointly discuss and vote on those articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Such a decision will not be adopted if at least one third of the Members oppose it. We are therefore on a procedural proposal. We invite everyone in the lobby to come to the hall. Such a proposal shall be put to the vote. Let's vote on the motion! Please, please, please, please, please, 48 present. That is how much this decision supported them. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. The Committee on Foreign Policy is proposing an amendment of an editorial nature to Article 2. Because no one wants a word, let's vote on it. Please comment on the amendment of the Foreign Policy Committee. 47 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Now we still have to vote on the whole article. Let's vote on the whole article! 50 present. 50 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the article has been adopted. We can vote on other articles to which no amendments have been tabled. Please, we are voting on articles to which no amendments have been tabled. 49 present, that's how many there were for. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it we've accepted that, too. We are moving on to a debate on the title of the law. We're voting. The title is accepted. 49 present, just as much for, no one against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] We're in third reading. Who wants to make an amendment to Article 2? [[Nobody.]] This is how we can determine consistency. Can we move on to making a full decision on the law? [[Yeah.]] We are voting on the law as a whole, please. 50 present, just as much for. [[The vote was 50.]] I note that the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia unanimously accepted the ratification of the Kyoto Protocol. We have a proposal for an additional decision, which is editorially corrected; it was adopted by the Committee on Foreign Policy. It reads: "The National Assembly calls on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to prepare a national greenhouse gas reduction programme and to refer it to the National Assembly for consideration." Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I shall put the motion for an additional decision to the vote. Please, we are voting on the proposal for an additional decision. The proposal was adopted. 49 present, just as much for, no one against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're at 20. Agenda items - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Summer Agreement on the Financing of 2001 between the Commission of the European Communities in the name of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Does the billmaker want a word? Do qualified debaters want the word? Since no one wants to discuss and the amendments have not been tabled, I propose that the Council, in accordance with Article 213, second paragraph, conclude that we will only vote on the bill in full. We are voting on this procedural proposal. 47 present, just as much for. [[The vote was 47.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. This way we can go to the vote on the bill as a whole. We are voting on the bill as a whole. 51 present, 50 for, none against. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been fully adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. At 21. We have a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Vienna Convention on the Succession of States in respect of State Property, Archives and Debt. Does the proposer want a word? I'm asking, do qualified debaters want the word? [[Nobody.]] Then I will put to the vote first a procedural proposal in accordance with Article 213 to vote on the bill in full. I put this proposal to the vote. Let's vote! A procedural proposal shall be put to the vote. 46 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We can therefore move on to a full decision on the proposal for a law. Let's vote on the bill as a whole! The law has been passed. There are 50 Members and Members present. That's how much support he had. No one objected to him. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a law has been fully adopted. We're moving to 22. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Agreement on Mutual Administrative Assistance for the Prevention, Detection and Suppression of Customs Violations between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Italian Republic. The law was adopted by the government in the procedure of the National Assembly. They don't want a word. Do other qualified debaters want the word? [[Nobody.]] I am also now putting to the vote a procedural proposal in accordance with Article 213 to vote on the law as a whole. Let's vote! Let's vote on the motion! 50 present. 49 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted. That way we can go to the full vote on the law. Let's vote on the whole law! 47 present. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the National Assembly has passed the law. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're at 23. Agenda items - Defence of the Proposal for a Law on the Ratification of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of statutory and other legal measures relating to the deposit in, its exploitation and decommissioning and the joint declaration on the signing of the Agreement between the two Governments on the regulation of statutory and other legal dimensions linked to the application of nuclear electricity cross, its use and development. Colleagues and colleagues! I'm obliged to inform you of the following. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia informed the National Assembly on 20 this month that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 160 of the Constitution, a third of the members of the National Assembly had submitted a proposal for an opinion on the compatibility with the Constitution of the Treaty between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the regulation of the status and other legal relations relating to the investment in, exploitation and degradation of the Nuclear Power Plant Krška. Given that the National Assembly is bound by the opinion of the Constitutional Court, there are no conditions for dealing with this item on the agenda. Therefore, on the basis of the second paragraph of Article 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I propose that this point be postponed to one of the next meetings of the Assembly. This proposal may, in accordance with paragraph 5 of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, be presented to the representatives of the groups of Members and the debate of Members is not possible. Anyone want a word with the representatives of the parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] We vote on the proposed decision to move this point to one of the next assembly meetings. 50 present, 49 for, one up. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. Colleagues and colleagues, we're moving on to 24. Period of the day - Defence proposal for a law amending the law on the execution of criminal sanctions. We have representatives of the government with us who have tabled a bill in the National Assembly. We'll deal with it in the short term. I will wait for half a minute; the representatives of the government are accompanying the meeting of the National Assembly in their seats in the National Assembly, so I ask them to come to the Chamber if they want to perform with an introduction at this point, otherwise we will continue the hearing. Okay. Then I will give the floor to the Internal Policy Committee, which has treated this proposal as a competent working body. President, Comrade Lavrinz is here. You want a word? You have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u52	Otherwise, Mr Kangler was appointed rapporteur, but he was detained. [[The ad from the bench.]] Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u53	Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u54	Thank you for your word. I guess the president's word is bigger than the vice president's, so I gave him a head start. However, allow me to submit a report to the Internal Policy Committee, which dealt with the proposal for a law on 20 June. The representative of the proposer presented the legislative proposal in the introduction and said that the aim of the proposed amendment was, in particular, to harmonise the current legal regime with the constitutional decision. The proposed adoption will eliminate the unequal treatment of injured persons whose claims are based on the law on denationalisation by injured persons whose claims are based on the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions. At the same time, the applicant also provides that, for such requests for which the legal basis is new, the limitation period shall begin to run from the date of application of the law. In the proposal's view, the implementation of the law will require certain financial resources, but neither the number nor the level of the amount can be anticipated. The Committee adopted the following decision: "The Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Internal Policy proposes to the National Assembly that, following a reduced procedure, it should consider and adopt a law amending the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions in the proposed text." Also on the basis of the general debate, the Committee on Internal Policy proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt further the following conclusions: "The National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia imposes on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, within three months, to prepare and submit to the National Assembly a comprehensive report on all the legal bases for the correction of the injustices adopted so far by the National Assembly, on their mutual coordination, on the open issues and problems in their implementation, on the material obligations to be assumed by the State on the basis of these rules, and on the government's known additional requirements for the correction of the injustices imposed by foreign countries and various communities and associations in the country. On the basis of this comprehensive report, the Government should also draw up a possible assessment and proposals on the activities needed to resolve unclear or unresolved issues and the unacceptable consequences of the existing solutions it will identify in its report." Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u55	Thank you very much to the rapporteur of the Internal Policy Committee. Secretariat? He doesn't want a word. Representatives of parliamentary groups? Comrade Potts, on behalf of the United List of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The UK Group supports the proposal for a law and believes that the findings of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia need to be incorporated into the law in an corrective manner, as proposed by the Government. The Constitutional Court found that the rights to redress would differ between the beneficiaries under the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions and the law on denationalisation if they had the right to compensation for the inability to use the property only from the lodging of a claim for compensation, not from the legal capacity of the judicial decision which annulled the decision resulting from the change of property. It's the right thing to accept. As usual, the government also had to draw attention to a possible assessment of the financial implications. I am not talking about this assessment of the financial implications so that the assessment could have any impact on the decision-making process. He can't. We must make the decision as proposed, but it is only right that we know this assessment. The Government has pointed out that it cannot give an accurate assessment of this, that it is informed that so far 261 applications have been filed in one way or another, that 37 of these 261 actions have already been filed in the State Attorney's Office, and that 8 of these 261 cases can be assessed materially. And when it materially assessed 8 of these 261 cases, it is estimated that about one thirtieth, it found that the value of the increased liability of the country is potentially undecided, approx. 27 billion tolars. I do not want to say that this can be compared only if this number were to be changed into thirty times more, in proportion to the applications, this would be a huge amount. I'm not saying he's like that, but in these eight cases, he's very tall of 261. This and the fact that we are often faced with changes and additions to the rules that this National Assembly has adopted to correct injustices and, in the fact that we often change these decisions, we are receiving reports at the same time indicating a relatively large or enormous amount of material obligations, but these reports are also partial, never entirely given, that we are also receiving some warnings about insufficient proper conduct in the implementation of these laws; all of this has prompted us to take a decision, at the proposal of our Member Group, which was also quoted by the rapporteur, Mr Kangler. I would just like to say a few sentences in support of the importance of this Decision. We have adopted in the National Assembly a number of laws that can be considered as part of the correction of injustices: from the law on denationalisation adopted first, the law on the enforcement of criminal sanctions, the law on the fund for payment of war compensation, the law itself bearing the title of the Law on the correction of wrongs. The law on victims of war violence is also part of this set-up, and there is still something to mention. These laws were adopted at different times and regulated the correction of injustices in different ways. We do not have a uniform regulation of these issues, so we also change the deadlines in which applications can be made or the rights arising from these laws over and over again, either alone or after decisions by the Constitutional Court. This is not good because it creates uncertainty with the beneficiaries, and this is not good because it creates uncertainty also in the country or in the obligations which the State has on this basis. At the same time, we receive information in the National Assembly and in the home labour body, which we have been dealing with in recent times in the National Assembly, indicating large material or potential material obligations on this basis. One is obligations under the Denationalisation Act and at least, as far as can be said, from the time the law was adopted to today, the total obligation of 400 billion tolars has increased to over 650 billion. I claim to be much more, but this is an official evaluation of the government. The Slovenian compensation company, which is liable to pay its obligations for issued, would say that securities, when they were not returned in nature, have warned us for several years that there is no coverage to meet these obligations. For a few years now, we've been alerted to this, and in the National Assembly, I would say, very quietly, we keep this in mind, sir. However, it is good to say that the compensation company reminds us that since 2006 and 2007 there has been no coverage for the fulfilment of obligations of up to 100 billion dollars in each year, which the State will have to provide from the State budget if such obligations and rights under the law remain. And he says it's not finished, I'd say, a reckoning. In addition, the Office of the Defence has informed us that this moment, within the State's State Attorney's Office, is recorded over 600 billion claims for the obligations of the state currently in progress. Whether they're exhausted or not, no one knows, but the order of size is huge. Furthermore, on the basis of our demands in the Internal Policy Committee, the State Prosecutor's Office has warned us that, on the basis of the 812 criminal procedure law, 617 indictments have been dropped, many of which as the remainder of the penalty for confiscation of property and are required to pay damages: either in nature or in monetary obligations of the State. We would close our eyes if we didn't tell each other and know that many groups of citizens are making additional demands. Applications for recovery of material damage caused during World War II are known. We also have MEPs and Members in the National Assembly. They've been dealing with each other for a while. It is even, in the knowledge of Members and Members, a draft law: the minimum order of reimbursement of these claims is approx. 25 billion tolars. We know that housing rights holders in denationalised apartments make their claims. When we discuss changes and additions to the housing law in the government procedure, the Ministry which is preparing this law only notes that in some part the minimum correction of injustices will also be necessary. The order of magnitude is a minimum of one billion and more, and it will also be able to be significantly larger if its requirements are met. Specific cases could also be cited, indicating that there are still potentially quite a number of issues that are also open in the National Assembly. After all, there's something else about the graves law. Our view is that it would be right for the National Assembly to get a full picture of this once. It is therefore proposed in the home working body and is unanimously supported by this Decision. Therefore, I propose that this decision also be supported by the National Assembly, in order to obtain information on this serious and responsible issue, that we finally find out what another part of the public debt we have and how we will be able to cover it and how we will organise ourselves to cover it, because it is irresponsible to take decisions, and that we are putting the responsibility for implementation into later generations and closing our eyes and ears to that effect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u57	Thank you. Any of the other MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I give the floor to Members and Members of Parliament. No one wants to debate, so I am concluding the general debate. My colleagues and colleagues are invited from the lobby to the hall. We are in the middle of deciding on a bill after a reduced procedure. I'll just wait a minute. I would like to inform you that there are no amendments tabled so that we can discuss and vote on all articles together on the basis and in accordance with the fifth indent of Rule 189 of the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. I'll wait another half minute, then I'll put it to the vote and find out whether the National Assembly is concluded or not. All right, I'll take ten minutes off. I'll be able to determine the presence first. Please, we are voting on the amendments, as I said before, in full. We're voting. I'm taking ten minutes off. Shall we proceed, please? [[...]] Twice. I'm sorry, I have to go formally twice. One more time, another time. I'm sorry. I would ask all the secretaries and leaders, and I will personally try to invite as many colleagues as I can and colleagues as I can to come to the hall. We'll continue at 12:30.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u58	I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. Please, colleagues and colleagues, I'll wait another minute. I would like to inform you that in the third place we will be voting on a procedural proposal, in view of the fact that no amendments to the bill have been tabled, we will decide on all the articles together, this will be a procedural proposal and then we will decide on the content of all the articles. I'll wait a few more seconds because we're at the border so there's nothing wrong. There's 48 of us in the hall. Can I have everyone's attention when voting? Colleagues and colleagues! We are in the third decision on the procedural proposal to vote on all the amendments, on all the articles together. We are voting on a procedural proposal. Please, we're voting. 49 present. 43 for, no one was against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The procedural proposal has been adopted. That is why we can now decide and discuss all the articles together. We're voting. Please, if you'll be so kind. 48 present. 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] We've accepted the articles. We can now go to the vote and decide on the title. We decide on the title of the law. We're voting. 49 present. 45 for, no one against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] We've accepted the title. We're in third reading. I note that no amendments have been adopted to the proposal for a law in the second, and that no amendments can be made to the text in the third. This is how we move on to the decision on the proposal of the law as a whole. No one wants to discuss it. I'm putting him to the vote. We are voting on the bill as a whole. 47 present. 44 for, no one against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. The Internal Policy Committee proposes a decision, an additional decision to the National Assembly. Anybody want a word about him? [[Nobody.]] I'm putting the motion to a vote. We're voting. 48 present. 42 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] I take it that an additional decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 25. Agenda item - Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Submission of Candidates from the Republic of Slovenia to the Judges of the International Court of Justice. Does the government want a word on this? [[He doesn't want to.]] The Internal Policy Committee that addressed this bill? [[Neither do I.]] Qualified debaters? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[No, no, ……]] I conclude the debate and move on to decision-making, in accordance with the swift procedure. First, I will propose a procedural proposal to discuss and vote together on the remaining articles to which the amendments have not been tabled after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles. I am putting this motion to the vote. We're voting. Once again - colleagues and colleagues, there is enough of us in the Chamber - I am putting to the vote a procedural proposal in accordance with Article 189. We're voting. 47 present, 43 for, none against. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the procedural proposal has been adopted. Thus, we can now move on to the decision on individual articles and amendments tabled. We have an amendment, this is an amendment to the Internal Policy Committee, for a new article 2.a. I'm opening a debate on him. No one wants to discuss it. I shall put the proposal for a new Article 2a to the vote. We're voting. 47 present, 39 for, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I understand that we have accepted this proposal. We will now decide on the other articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 46 in attendance, 40 in, no in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the rest of the articles are accepted. There's the title of the law in the debate. We're moving on to a decision on the title of the law. We're voting. 48 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the title of the law has been adopted. We're in third reading. Article 2.a is open. Does the proposer want to table an amendment? [[No, no, ……]] We have thus concluded the debate and decision-making on the amendments. Is there a breach of mutual harmony? [[It's not.]] We can make a full decision about the law. I'm putting the whole law to the vote. We're voting. Let's vote on the whole law! 49 present. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the National Assembly has passed the law. We're moving on to 26. Period of the day - Defence Proposal for a Law on Supplements to the Restrictive Measures Act. Does the government, as a proponent, want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Qualified debaters? Committee? Secretariat? Emissary groups? I call to the word of the Members and Members. No one wants to discuss it. As no amendment has been tabled to this law, in accordance with the fifth indent of Article 189, a procedural proposal would be put to the debate and decision to decide on all the articles together. I will now put to the vote first a procedural proposal. Let us vote on this procedural proposal. Please. We're in the middle of a vote. We have accepted this proposal. From 50 present 47 for, 1 up. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against one.]] Now we can decide all the articles together. No one wants a word, so we will decide all the articles together. Let's vote! We're in the middle of a vote. 49 present. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I'm guessing we've accepted the articles. The title of the law. I'm putting the title of the law in decision-making. Let's vote! We're in the middle of a vote. 49 present. 46 for, no one against. [[The vote was 46.]] [[No one.]] I understand the address has been accepted. I note that no amendments have been adopted to the second reading bill and therefore cannot be made in the third reading. Anyone else want a word before making a decision? [[No, no, ……]] Then we will now vote on the bill as a whole. Let's vote! Let's vote on the bill as a whole! 50 present. 47 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 47.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. Agenda item - Defence proposal for a law on the expansion of the Republic of Slovenia for public undertaking obligations of Slovenian Railway D. D. From loans hired to finance the maintenance of public railway infrastructure. We'll decide on the law quickly. The proposer is the government. He wants a word? [[No, no, ……]] The Infrastructure Committee has considered this proposal for a law. Does the rapporteur want a word? My friend Janc says no. Secretariat? Emissary groups? The MPs and the MPs? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the general debate. We have amendments, we are moving on to the examination and decision-making of individual articles and amendments tabled. I will lead the decision on the basis of the review you received on 18.6. Do you have a procedural proposal, Comrade Visjak? Don't you? You want a word. I'll give you a word, please. Are you so kind as not to disturb the debate? We are therefore in the middle of deciding on the amendments to the articles tabled. We are at Article 1 and the amendment tabled. It's an amendment to the government's amendment. My friend, mag. The Vizjak wanted a word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u59	Dear President, I know it's Friday, and I know that the end is coming, but you walked so fast because I only wanted to ask the government a few questions with such an important question. I just wish I could do it. I'm not taking this precious time. But you've gone over this like the fastest train we've ever seen. Can I ask the government a few questions about this point?
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u60	Let me get this straight. I can't let you do that. We're in the middle of another reading. We are under amendment to the Government's amendment to Article 1. If you want to ask questions about this or discuss it, you have this option. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u61	Yes, of course I will take this opportunity and I will raise questions with the government about this amendment. Yes, of course it's in line with the agenda. That's what I'm talking
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u62	Amendment to the amendment. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u63	I would like to know in particular: what is the total amount of leased long-term Slovenian Railways loans between 1991 and 2001? I am also interested in: what is the total amount of State budget guarantees issued for these loans, that is to say loans to Slovenian railways? This is very in the context of the first amendment. And I also want to know, of course, what is the total amount of payments? How many payments were made directly by Slovenian Railways? And how many years in which payment was made to the public budget or how many contracts amending guarantees issued by law were transferred directly from the Slovenian Railways to the public budget? And also, very important. Which state budget items in Balances A, B, C show repayments of loans under the national budget? I would like to ask these questions and questions the reply of a government representative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u64	Look, Comrade Visjak. In line with your observation that we are in a hurry, however, I would tell you not to jump any step in the decision-making process. I always take the time to look around the hall to see if anyone wants a word. It was an opportunity to discuss the groups of Members, Members and Members of Parliament, but it is not - yes, I can wait five minutes, and then you become unkind to me because I am waiting five minutes. Thus, you have asked in the back questions that are going through the discussion on the content of Article 1. Anyone else want a debate on Article 1 and the two amendments tabled? Please, Comrade Visjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u65	Otherwise, I agree that it is unlikely that a government representative can shake this out of hand, of this data. Even if I started to quote them here, I'd probably be, I'd say, inaccurate, because he didn't know in advance. That is why I will be satisfied with the written response to this, even in terms of rationalisation and warnings on your part. However, I would just like the government's commitment to get answers to these questions and, please, I expect them within a certain time frame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u66	Will the government give a written answer to the question? [[Bo.]] Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word in the debate on Article 1 and the two amendments? Please, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u67	Thank you so much for saying that. Article 1 just speaks of the amount for which the guarantee is to be given to Slovenian Railways for the rental of credit, i.e. for a project that is very important for Slovenia. It's an international connection, it's a route that connects us to Austria. The modernisation of the route is of course a necessity, but from the information available to me, I note that it has not been practically designed for reconstruction in the past year to modernise any money. Slovenian railways are on their knees as far as the financial situation is concerned. Of course, back there is a country that can guarantee railways, because this is public infrastructure, this is public transport, which the country must have. In doing so, state-owned companies, public companies, as well as others, behave in their own way. Freight transports are carried along roads, thus burdening roads, loading air, at the previous point we have addressed the problem of burning fossil fuels. The amount is extremely high. All properties are mortgaged. Now a new loan or guarantee. From the financial capacity available to us, this company, from its real estate wealth, is based on the fact that this guarantee will actually fall directly on the country in order to change into an obligation. It's just a matter of time. The law is beautiful, beautifully written, only as a guarantee - this guarantee, I tell you, will change into an obligation of the state, and that, in my opinion, will be in the period for which we adopted the budget, 2002 and 2003. In this regard, I am not only satisfied with the written answers that will come after the adoption - it is likely that fellow Members and Members will adopt this decision for the guarantee, but it does not mean anything - we will be given post-festum answers to these questions, which are important to the decision of force. I myself believe that we should even have a special debate on the situation of Slovenian railways and on the development of Slovenian railways. What is happening now is not in Slovenia, far from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u68	Anyone else want a word? Yes, mag. Prince, a word? Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u69	Dear Members, honourable Members! Thank you so much for asking. I would like to comment on the content of the question. We agree that a broader debate is needed for the area of Slovenian railways, the public enterprise of the Slovenian Railways, and they need to be given more attention. The law before us, however, speaks of the Republic of Slovenia's guarantee of public service obligations for the maintenance of public infrastructure. This law is based on the fact that the infrastructure is owned by the State of Slovenia. With these funds, the Slovenian Railway public undertaking will fulfil the contractual obligations defined between the Railway and Operator Directive, the Slovenian Railway public undertaking. The scope of the works is precisely defined in the annual construction plan and will also be pursued and monitored on the basis of the contract. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u70	Okay. Anyone else? Please, you have the floor, Comrade Mamić.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u71	Thank you very much. I have one question. In fact, I have already asked this question on the Infrastructure Committee, but I did not get an answer when we discussed it. Indeed, for 2001, this loan was 6 billion 250 million, this year 8 billion 250, the second year as it was this year, I guess. And I wonder if it's gonna be every year, this guarantee as long as we're alive, if it's any vision that it's going to end once. If every year and every year there's so many billions more, I don't know where that ends. I don't know why it didn't come back to me. Even when we asked for an analysis of all these numbers, we got five, six lines, so written on the grave, which actually doesn't tell me anything. I just can't agree with this kind of policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u72	Please, anyone else? Please, Dr. Bernick's colleague.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u73	Thank you, Mr. President. One wonders that the government comes to ask for a guarantee of 8 billion and a half without seriously substantiating this request. We all know that state railways are bankrupt, that in a state such as our railways, it seems pointless to talk about making a guarantee, for this guarantee will never be returned. And if business companies were to do what we see here, they would have been in the competition a long time ago. And why don't the government, when it comes up with such a proposal, present a whole strategic plan for our railways. And that such a requirement could be addressed in the whole range. But that is, if I may say so, just "flashing" and "misleading." For if we vote for 8 billion and a half, what will we then have to add or vote for additional loans in one year or two, without having any strategic plan? And, I mean, I'm not going to vote for it myself because if the government is in such a hurry, it's supposed to be trying to give us something more substantial than just one page of numbers that don't say anything.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u74	Please, my friend Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u75	Yes, thank you for your word. In fact, this first article is so much more important because it talks about this, I think, about the height of the principal to be hired for mandatory maintenance of railway infrastructure. I have also pointed out to the Committee that I do not agree with this order for the submission of certain requests to the National Assembly regarding the policy and future of the Slovenian Railways. I have repeatedly pointed out this, we should have, as has already been promised so many times, that documentation will also come to the National Assembly, etc. - first, of course, the national programme, all other projects, etc. On this basis, we could also see a vision of the development of Slovenian railways and thus the obligations that will follow. I also did not support the proposal of this law on the committee, and I will not be here either, because it is not only about 8 billion, so it goes to the final estimate for nearly 14 billion tolars. The coalition, of course, has nothing to worry about here. These are obligations that will follow every year. That's how it was explained. Each year, there are approximately such obligations for the maintenance of railway infrastructure. And although these things are being moved in the following years, let's say this loan is now until 2010, or interest will have to start paying in this year and also in 2003. I hope that these funds are provided - whatever. In view of the fact that it is not, although it has been provided by the Government, and also after that, the Committee has concluded that, together with the national programme's rebalancing, all these clarifications and all the outstanding commitments and the system or level of various obligations to be repaid over the coming years must be sent to the National Assembly. In short, precisely because of the irregular order of treatment of certain cases, this time probably I will not support this law. But it is a fact - also with some big or bad feelings, for example, I accept this matter. Because the coalition, especially the coalition, should know what the financial consequences of all these proposals are when they are easily decided on. I don't think that's right. I don't know if she thinks someone would pay her in the future when they're gone or how -- I don't know. In short, the very heavy irresponsibility of the coalition is shown in the adoption of such laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u76	Thank you. I see no one wants to discuss it anymore. I therefore conclude the debate on this Article. We're at Article 1. We have submitted two amendments to the Infrastructure and Government Committee. We will first vote on the amendment to the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, tabled by the Infrastructure Committee. We're voting. We are voting on the amendment to the government amendment tabled by the Infrastructure Committee. I invite my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall. Secondly, we will vote on the amendment to the government amendment tabled by the Infrastructure Committee in Article 1. We're voting. May I have your attention, please? We vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 1. 49 present, 42 for, one up. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] I understand he's been accepted. We vote on the amendment of the Government tabled under order number 2 to Article 1. We're voting. 49 present, 42 in, 3 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I understand he's been accepted. We vote on Article 1 as a whole. 48 present, 41 for, 3 versus. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] Article 1 is adopted. We have an amendment proposal for a new Article 1a. I'm opening a debate. Nobody wants to discuss it, so I'm closing it. We decide on the proposal for a new Article 1.a. We are voting on the proposal for a new Article 1a. I'll wait a few moments. I think there's enough of us in the hall. We no longer have many decisions related to this law. We are voting second time on the proposal for Article 1a. We're voting. We are voting on the proposal for Article 1a. 49 present. 42 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against two.]] 1.a Article shall be voted on. We have an amendment to Article 2. There's no debate. We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 2. We're in the middle of a vote. 46 present. 39 for, 2 for. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against two.]] The amendment was accepted. We vote on Article 2 in full. We're voting. 48 present. 41 for, 3 for. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against three.]] The Article shall be adopted in its entirety. Finally, we have the amendment of the Infrastructure and Environment Committee to Article 3. No one wants to discuss it. We vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 3. We're in the middle of a vote. 47 present. 42 for and no one against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] The amendment was accepted. We are still voting on the whole article. We are voting on the whole article. We will once again decide on Article 3 in full. May I have your attention, please? Secondly, we will decide on Article 3 in full. We're voting. 48 present. 42 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] The article has been voted on. And since no amendments have been tabled to Article 4, we will vote on the text of Article 4. Anybody want to talk? [[Nobody.]] We vote on Article 4 as a whole. We're in the middle of a vote. Once again, a full vote on Article 4 will have to be taken. I'm inviting some friends from the lobby. We're going to vote four again, please, for peace in the hall. Again, the second time we will vote on Article 4 in full. We're voting. 51 present. 44 for, 1 for. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against one.]] We have thus exhausted the vote on the articles and on the amendments tabled. The debate on the title of the law. Please, Comrade Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u77	Thank you for your word. I'll be very brief. I think this is a real opportunity to say a few sentences about the issue of rail infrastructure.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u78	Sorry, this is the title of the law now - not the whole law, the title of the law, we're in the middle of another reading. Thank you for taking the warning. We now decide on the title of the law, the law in its entirety at the end. Nobody wants to talk anymore. I'm putting the title of the law to a vote. The title of the law. The title is accepted. 48 in attendance, 45 in, no in. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] Amendments may be made to open articles. We have Articles 1, 1a, 2 and 3. We're in third reading. Anyone want to put amendments on them? [[No, no, ……]] Then I open the debate on the proposal in full. Now I give my word to my colleague Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u79	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So, I wanted to say that this area, in my opinion and probably in the opinion of someone else, is fundamentally neglected. The fact is that, compared to the highway structure where billions of dollars are being invested, at least in this area, we did not have the opportunity in Parliament to become aware of development in general, of the rail economy's plans. That is why I think it would be right for my colleagues to remind me that this issue would be brought to the fore in the National Assembly. In particular, the last time in Europe - if I specifically mention - the fifth corridor is modernised, there is talk of major constructions between Italy and France, of long tunnels to increase speed. We're in this corridor, too, but we're kind of shy about individual sections. We've been talking about the Kopra connection for a long time. We're talking about a fast track. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u80	I only warn that this is not the subject of this proposal. I understand what you're trying to say, please, if you don't mind.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u81	No, no, I'll be right there. In fact, this will explain the voice. And somehow we don't get to some real document that really has a big weight. That's why I said that this area is essentially abandoned with us. Here we are talking about €60 million, all together with credits worth, and if we compare this with different road sections, this is possible for a road section of 10 kilometers of highway. I don't think this is a big sum, but of course this sum has to be paid and someone has to pay for it. I therefore essentially agree with my colleagues who said that a full debate should be held on this once, a long-term programme, because I believe, as I have already said, that this area is essential to us and that we do not give it the attention we should have. We should invest significantly more in this infrastructure. So it seems to me that the proposal before us is also welcome to maintain these main routes. That is why I will support this proposal. Once again, I am in favour of this proposal and I think that the government should consider bringing us once more fully into line with the rail infrastructure development plan. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u82	Did I see it right, Comrade Petty Officer, you want a word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u83	Yes, I would have expressed great concern about the adoption of this law. Why? Clearly, it is the irresponsible conduct of those who run Slovenian railways and the irresponsible behaviour of the Slovenian government. Look, they're coming for a guarantee in a very high amount. They do not answer the basic questions: How many guarantees have been made so far? What's the liability? At least it's vain. We didn't say that exactly in tolars. Because anyone who comes to the bank for a loan needs to know how much he's committed, at least minimal. I doubt gentlemen are aware of this weight. They may even know, but they don't come in on a day like this. Because the burden is enormous. And in this way coming to the National Assembly for a guarantee is really irresponsible work for me. That's not for 100,000 tolars. That's over 8 billion. What a discussion about increasing the budget deficit by 14 billion. For 14 days people are jumping around Slovenia, all the public media are publishing, and here they are over 8 billion, 10 billion. I mentioned earlier that this would certainly fall to the country. Because I know what the financial capacity of Slovenian railways is. It's a really irresponsible thing to do. And to postpone this now to the Members and to expect them, if you vote, you are good for the Slovenian Railways, if you are not, then you are not good for the Slovenian Railways. You don't want them well. I fear that such understanding and interpretation will go to the Slovenian public. But you need to know why I object to doing that. We didn't get any answers. I am over, so on these moves, on these actions of the government very, very concerned.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u84	Anyone else want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate and move on to a vote on the law. Is coordination problematic? Okay. We are moving on to a full decision on the law. We decide on the law on the guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for public undertaking obligations of the Slovenian Railway Company in its entirety. We're voting. We're voting on the law. 49 present, 42 in, 3 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against three.]] I hereby conclude this agenda item. The law has been passed. At the previous point on restrictive measures, the Secretariat, and no one else has been paying attention to this, has warned me that we had two amendments. So, I have to reopen 26. PERIOD OF THE DAY and to come in second reading to decide on the two amendments tabled by the Council of State. These are government amendments, both editorial in nature. I'm opening a debate. Someone wants to talk about them. We have the first article and the amendment. First, we will put article 1 into the debate and decision-making of the amendment under order number 1 and then the amendment under order number 2. First, we vote on the amendment under order No. 1. Please, we're voting. 47 in attendance, 40 in, 1 in. [[For 40.]] [[Against one.]] I take it we've accepted this amendment. We are also voting on the amendment under Order No 2. Please. I'm calling off the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u85	Please, fellows, I don't know what we're voting on either. Come on, please. Repeat. Hurry up, and before we take the materials from our folders, you're still amendments, that's not possible.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u86	Objection accepted, I apologize. I said we had to, because I wasn't warned, and nobody else warned me about it, and of course it's my responsibility. At the previous point, the Act of Restrictive Measures, we must decide in a second reading on the two amendments tabled, namely the reduction nature of the Government's application to Article 1. It's a letter from the secretary-general of the government you have before you from the 16th of this month. I know. It's not the same address on the screen. I'll wait. Please, therefore, if we are now voting on the amendment under order No 2 to Article 1. Please, Comrade Skull, you have the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mr President, without objecting to the fact that the error is being corrected, this is a situation that I do not recall that we have already resolved in this way. And I ask whether there is a basis in the Rules of Procedure that after the point has been concluded, when the law has been passed, we will start again with a second reading.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u88	It's not. Once again, I was warned by the secretariat that there had been a mistake. The secretariat did not warn me, but in the end, I am as responsible as the President. No one else has been paying attention to that either, but the responsibility is absolutely mine. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it is possible to reopen the debate because we did not decide on the amendments which have been formally tabled. I'll try as hard as it is in my jurisdiction that this will never happen again. We are therefore under order number 2k 1 of the amendment. I'm putting him to the vote. We vote on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 1. I'm gonna ask for your attention one more time. I'd like my colleagues and colleagues in the lobby to join us. Thank you so much for your kindness. Once again, I shall put an amendment to the vote on Article 1. It's an amendment of editorial nature, as I say. Please, we're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. Can we vote again because our colleagues are here now? Please, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to put the amendment under order number two again. Can I ask my colleagues and colleagues to come to the hall? We're voting. Please, we're in the middle of a vote. May I have your attention, please? 48 present, 40 to, 2 to. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against two.]] We vote on Article 1 in full, as has been amended and supplemented by amendments. We're voting. 49 present, 42 in, 2 in. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against two.]] We are now voting on Article 2, where no amendments have been tabled. We're voting. 48 in attendance, 40 in, one in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against one.]] I'm guessing we've accepted the article. We vote on the title of the law. We're in the middle of a vote on the title of the law. 48 present, 42 for, one up. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against one.]] We're in third reading. Article 1 is open, does anyone want to add to it? [[No, no, ……]] Consistency? [[She's not a problem.]] We are voting on the law as a whole. Now for the whole marriage. 46 present, 41 for, one up. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I ask the services that help lead the National Assembly to be more careful next time. In the end, of course, it is always the responsibility of the President and at the end of the President. The point is closed. We're at 28. Agenda items - Proposal for a law implementing the 2002-2004 Payment Policy Agreement. Does the government that has put forward the proposal to deal with it want a word? Please, Madam Secretary of State of Belopavlovich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u89	Dear Members and honourable Members! On 10 June, the social partners signed an agreement on a wage policy for the period 2002-2004. The bill before you follows this agreement by regulating the way in which the initial wages are coordinated under the general collective agreement on economic activities and collective agreements in the field of economic activities, the way in which the minimum wage and guaranteed wages are coordinated, the payment of wages based on performance, gives the floor to the Minister responsible for the work to regulate the way in which the wage movement is monitored and prescribes sanctions for offenders. I propose that you adopt a proposal for a law along with amendments of the parent working body, which are editorial in nature and which are supported by the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u90	This was the position of the government which had tabled a proposal for a law. It was discussed by the Health Committee. Does the rapporteur want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Secretariat? [[No, no, ……]] Representatives, representatives or representatives of parliamentary groups? [[No, no, ……]] The MPs and the MPs? [[Not at all.]] Can I conclude the general debate so that there is no objection? Yes, you can. Okay. I am concluding the general debate and, in view of the rapid procedure, I am moving on to a second reading decision and, of course, a discussion on the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been tabled. We will first decide on a procedural proposal to discuss and decide, in accordance with the second indent of Article 189, after the discussion and the vote on the amendments and the articles, on those articles to which the amendments have not been tabled. This Decision will not be adopted if at least one third of those present oppose it. This is a procedural proposal. We are voting on this proposal. We are voting on a procedural proposal. I'll call my colleagues and colleagues again. We've got the last half hour of work today. I think there are enough of us in the Chamber, but we should really all be involved in this decision on the procedural proposal. We are voting on a procedural proposal for a second time. We're in the middle of a vote. May I have your attention, please? 46 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] This procedural proposal has been adopted. Thus, we can now go to the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled. We have before us a proposal for amendments that have been tabled. On one list. It was lodged in the 19th century. We are with the amendments tabled under Article 2, which are amendments to the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons. I'm opening a debate on them. There's no debate? Okay. Then we'll make a decision. First, we decide on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2. Do we all have checks in front of us? Okay. We are voting on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 2. 46 present, 39 for, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number one has been adopted. Can I have your attention, please? We are voting on the amendment under order number 2 to Article 2. We're voting. 46 in attendance, 40 in, no in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the amendment under order number 2 has been accepted. We still have an amendment under order number 3 to Article 2. We're voting. We're in the middle of a vote. 48 in attendance, 40 in, no in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I note that the third amendment to Article 2 has also been adopted. We vote on Article 2 in full. We're voting. 47 in attendance, 40 in, no in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the article has been voted out. We have an amendment to Article 4 of the Committee. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. We move to a vote on the amendment under order number 1 to Article 4. We're voting. 47 present, 39 for, none against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on Article 4 as a whole. We're voting. 48 present, 41 for, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] I note that Article 4 is fully adopted. We're at Article 5 and the amendment of the committee. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] We vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 5. Please, we're in the middle of a vote. 47 in attendance, 40 in, no in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are now voting on Article 5 as a whole. We vote on Article 5 as a whole. We're gonna have to vote again. I'll wait half a minute. Can I ask my colleagues and colleagues to gather? We're at Article 5. We will decide on the full text of the article, secondly. We're voting. The second time we vote on the text of Article 5 in its entirety. 47 in attendance, 40 in, no in. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The text has been put to the vote. We're at Article 8. We have an amendment to the board. I see no one wants to discuss it. Okay. I conclude the debate and put the Committee's amendments to the vote. We vote on the amendment of the Committee to Article 8. My friend Janc's here. Once again, this is the second time we have voted on the amendment to Article 8, in full. Please vote on the text of Article 8 in its entirety. 48 present, 42 for, none against. [[The vote was 42.]] [[No one.]] So voted Article 8 in its entirety as it was, the amendment. Article 8 as a whole. Please. 46 present. 40 for, no one's against. [[The vote was 40.]] [[No one.]] The article has been voted on. At the end of the review, we still have the amendment of the committee to Article 9. No one wants to discuss it. We vote on the amendment of the committee to Article 9. We're voting. We vote on the amendment of the committee to Article 9. 49 present, 41 for, no one, against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] He's been voted. Now we're talking about Article 9 as a whole. We vote on Article 9 as a whole. 46 present, 41 for, none against. [[The vote was 41.]] [[No one.]] Thus, we are now exhausted by the adoption of Article 9 of the amendments to the articles to which they were voted. We go to the vote or to the debate and vote on the other members. Doesn't anyone want a word? Okay. We are moving to a vote on articles to which no amendments have been tabled. We vote on articles to which no amendments have been tabled. May I have your attention, please? 49 present, 44 for and none against. [[The vote was 44.]] [[No one.]] The rest of the articles are accepted. We're in the debate on the title of the law. We vote on the title of the law. Please. We're in the middle of a vote on the title of the law. 48 in attendance, 43 in, no in. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] The title is accepted. In my third reading, I point out to the National Assembly that there have been further amendments to Articles 2, 4, 5, 8 and 9 and that amendments can be tabled. Who's interested? No, no, no. Nobody? Consistency? Is he okay? We will vote on the law as a whole. We are voting on the law as a whole. We're in the middle of a full vote on the law. The law has been passed. Of the 49 present, 45 colleagues supported him, and no one opposed him. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I hereby conclude this item, the 28th item of the agenda. We're moving to 29. Period of the day -- that's a second-hand proposal for a law amending the law of indemnity. Excuse me? Just a minute. Do you have a procedural proposal or something? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u91	The government is proposing to the National Assembly to postpone the consideration of that bill to one of the autumn meetings. In the meantime, the government will carry out further coordination with the social partners. This proposal is also submitted in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u92	Okay, that's a qualified government proposal. Therefore, on the basis of Rule 73(2) of the Rules of Procedure, I propose that this item be postponed to one of the following meetings, not to the proposal of the Government. Member groups may, if they wish, give their views on this. None? We will then vote on the proposed decision to move this item to one of the next assembly meetings. We are voting on this proposal. May I have your attention, please? We're voting on the proposal. 49 present, 42 in, 4 in. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I note that this decision to transfer this point to one of the following meetings has been adopted. Thank you very much. We are at the 29th item of the agenda or at the 29th item of the agenda, at the 29th item of the agenda, reading the 29th item of the agenda, this is the proposal for a law amending the Health Protection and Health Insurance Act. I have submitted the bill for consideration myself. I don't want a word. I'm asking if he wants a representative of the committee. Secretariat? A representative of the government? An emissary group? Please. On behalf of, I'm sorry, committee, I missed it. A colleague of Simšič's, on behalf of the committee. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u93	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Dear Government and Secretariat Representative! I replace the Chairman of the Committee, who is now officially absent and I would like to say briefly that the Committee on Labour, the Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons and Health at its 12th extraordinary meeting on 18 June has considered a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act. The proposal was for a reduced procedure put into the procedure by a group of Members. After a short discussion, in which representatives of the parliamentary groups, government and insurance representatives participated, the Committee supported the bill's proposal, proposed some amendments and proposed to the National Assembly that the proposal, which is under consideration after the reduced procedure, should be fully supported by the Committee's amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u94	Thank you very much. This was the rapporteur for the Committee. Secretariat? Emissary groups? We have our views. First, my colleague Tsukati on behalf of the Socialist Party's Group of Members and then - did I see it right? - Comrade Petty Officer. Please, first of all, my buddy Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u95	Thank you for your word. Dear President! A distinguished representative of the Ministry and present! Although time is running fast and we want to do a lot more until the conclusion of this meeting, I would point to some dilemmas. These changes change the right of children to medicinal products with intermediate lists. Whoever knows this is, of course, a proposal that we welcome, also our parliamentary group, so that children, students, apprentices, students will also have access without additional insurance to those medicines on the intermediate list. Next news is compulsory health insurance for soldiers as well. This, however, interferes with the major organisational issues of the defence health service. The primary health service was now within the Ministry of Defence, organised in the military and, of course, provided troops. Nowhere in the explanation is it said what it means if soldiers become part of the compulsory health insurance or fall under the public health service, which is financed by compulsory health insurance. So those health services that are not under the auspices of the Ministry of Defence, but under the auspices of the Ministry of Health. This is about bigger things. This is also a matter of new budgetary resources, as this will make the Ministry of Health responsible, organisationally responsible for public health services, including in the field of defence. And of course, there will have to be a kind of thing that this idea, which we don't oppose, will have to do in the first place. I don't know if you're aware of what we're getting into; I hope the proposalant is aware. Third question, the third novelty is actually an old matter, and we are returning to the original directive on the rights of travel costs for health purposes. I believe that this is one of the proofs of how badly we have done when we have partially gone to solve a particular problem without taking an integrated approach to health legislation. I fear that these partial approaches that I have mentioned are indeed partial, and I fear that we will be adopting new amendments to this law again in the autumn. The very idea of going back to the original starting point is good, because that's when we took the wrong thing. In its entirety, the proposal for amendments to the law is a good one, Members of Parliament, Social Democrats, we support it, but we fear that a partial approach is once again, and it is finally necessary to stress the need for an integrated health insurance regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u96	Thank you very much. This was the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. The position of the New Slovenia Group will be presented by colleague Ana Marija Tisovic. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. [[...]] [[Incomprehensible]] on behalf of the New Slovenia Group of Members. [[...]] Again, there is an amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which interferes with the law in four areas. This law has already undergone so many changes and additions that it is high time that we systematically go to and update health legislation. The patching and correction of this law according to the pattern used too often by the National Assembly, namely, by means of a rapid or reduced procedure, deeply interferes with social rights. When we did this with transports, obituaries and funerals, it turned out to be irrational. In a good half year, we have been discussing the same subject again and thus wasting our time. At the time of the adoption of these amendments, the New Slovenia Group strongly opposed and warned that different solutions should be found in this area, but the voting amendment was adopted. Another area in which changes and additions are needed is the payment and payment of medicines for children. We believe that our country must afford to give the child the best of his health. By decision 53/96, the Constitutional Court ordered the National Assembly to regulate certain uncertainties in the health insurance of military bonds during military service. In this part, the New Slovenia Group specifically recalls that amendment, which says that the military bond has a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia. According to our inquiries at the Ministry of Defence, a Slovenian citizen who does not have a permanent residence in the Republic of Slovenia can also serve as a military service. Although few are, it would not be right if we were to correct the law again soon. The Constitutional Court also found that Articles 82 and 83 of the Health and Health Insurance Act were inconsistent. In determining the rights under these two articles, there is a lack of alignment of the applicable legal regime with the constitutional right to legal protection. Corrections shall go in this direction to correct this and at the same time to adjust the rationality and speed procedures. The New Slovenia Group will not oppose the adoption of these amendments because they are meaningful and necessary. However, once again, I stress the need to approach the regulation of healthcare and health insurance legislation in a responsible and comprehensive manner. This will also buy us time because we will not constantly have on the table the same marriage with corrections and make up for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u98	On behalf of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, colleague Danica Simšič. Does any other group then want a word? No, okay.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u99	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. The Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats supports the amendments to the Health and Health Insurance Act proposed by the first-signed Borut Pahor. This bill was tabled in the parliamentary procedure as early as September 2000. Then a group of Members with first-signed Borut Pahor, who also joined Sonja Areh Lavrič, Sašo Pece, Silva Črnugelj and Danica Simšič, submitted a replacement text for a very simple reason. For at the end of December last year, on a proposal from the Government, which received a proposal from the Health Insurance Office, this law was amended in the points of funeral, post-mortem and reimbursement of travel expenses, but unfortunately it achieved exactly the opposite goal and purpose, as was desired. For this reason, the Group of Members replaced and tabled these amendments and included them. I am in a bit of an awkward situation, because while I am interpreting on behalf of the parliamentary group, I am also speaking as a co-proposer, but I would like to briefly explain why some changes have occurred, and I hope that I will be allowed to do so. In addition to the basic source of this law, we provide all medicines, including intermediate lists, for children in the Republic of Slovenia from compulsory health insurance, just as the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child provides for us, which requires the best care for our children, we then tabled three further amendments to the revised text. That is, the return of the funeral home and the post-mortem and the reimbursement of travel expenses to the original state. Because it turned out that some of the data we received, according to the government, through the insurance company and the solutions that were proposed, actually caused the most harm to those who should not have it, to the most socially vulnerable, the elderly and those who have the longest way to the doctor. In the coordination phase with the Ministry of Health and, of course, with some other applicants, with the first-signed Gezo Juban, who passed the law later, and Mrs Pozsoncheva we found a common solution and adopted two more initiatives. The Ministry of Defence's initiative to include compulsory health insurance under the law also for those serving military service in military formations, and not only for those serving military service as civilian service of military service. This has not been arranged so far. That is why we have included this in the replacement text. And we also included a decision by the Constitutional Court, which should have been taken into account two years ago, in fact, in order to regulate the appeals proceedings in Articles 82 and 83. It's all taken care of. There are also financial consequences in the law, which I believe will be even smaller than we were originally informed from the insurance company. That is why I will end up here on behalf of the Group of Members. We hope that changes such as those supported by the Committee will be adopted. Now, just a few more sentences specifically on behalf of the United Nations Group of Social Democrats. We are glad that this marriage has come to order. We are pleased and pleased that not only one of the fundamental programming principles of the United List of Social Democrats has been fulfilled, it has provided free medicines for children, also supported by civil society, that is, the Slovenian UNICEF Committee with several thousand signatures collected, only in a few days in this action. And that's why we're going to support the marriage with the amendments to the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u100	He wants another word from one of the MPs. [[No, no, ……]] Please, Secretary of State, mag. Highlander, you want a word? You have it.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Mrs Simšič has already presented changes to the law widely enough, so perhaps I would not. I would like to point out that the government has addressed these changes, supported them, as well as the proposed additions, amendments to the Committee, the Home Committee. The changes themselves were coordinated or prepared with the Ministry of Health’s professional services. Perhaps only to the extent that there is no misinterpretation in relation to, or misinterpretation in, the provision of health care to conscripts serving a military term. So far, they have been provided with health care, but within the framework of contractual relations with public health institutions, each health service has then been paid by the government or the Ministry of Defence. We are now fully addressing this area in such a way that these citizens are as insured as other citizens, equal to those serving the military in a civil way. And, of course, designed so that they do not entail additional costs for public expenditure. As Mrs Simšič has presented or announced, in the stage of drafting an opinion on this law, we have re-examined the financial effects of the law and have shown that they are lower than they were presented in the first phase. Let me say that the financial impact determined with regard to medicines is 140 million. Then the financial impact of compliance with the Constitutional Court decision is up to 100 million. Here are the new jobs that will be needed at the health insurance institution and the return of rights in relation to the reimbursement of travel expenses, funeral and post-mortem expenses. This will mean, in the costs of the health insurance institution, as set out in the proposal, 530 million, i.e. the overall impact of some 800 million tolars at the annual level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u102	Members and Members now have the floor. Doesn't anyone want another word? You do, Dr. Cuckoo. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u103	Thank you for your word. This time I'm gonna call as an individual. In particular, I would like to give a more detailed opinion on the costs incurred by the change in the insurance of soldiers. It is not true that the public health service now carried out the health care of soldiers. She carried out the basic health service of soldiers, a health service which is organised and operated in its entirety by the Ministry of Health or the Ministry of Defence. They carried out this service and carried out by doctors employed at the Ministry of Defence, nurses employed at the Ministry of Defence, ambulances organised, maintained and equipped by the Ministry of Defence. Only the hospital activity was carried out by the public health service, such as the Clinical Center under contract with the Ministry of Defence. And sometimes some substitutions and things like that in basic health care, in basic health care for soldiers. By transferring soldiers to the compulsory health insurance framework, the State, the Minister of Health, is taking full care of the basic health care of these soldiers. That's not bad. However, this means not only concern for human resources needs, the provision of personnel, but also for the provision of outpatient facilities, equipment and so on, this is called material costs. These costs are not included in health insurance. These are entirely new investment costs. This is a completely new situation, which, of course, is here, we probably will not solve. However, it would be good if this new financial situation and the new economic conditions that would arise from the transfer of activities to the Ministry of Health were to be somewhat more serious. So much for that comment. I believe that in some matters we really did not realize what we were accepting in the spring or when we were partially solving individual issues about the rights of travel costs - well, we have, indeed, some of them were unaware - so also now, I have a feeling that we are just trying to solve some of the things that are behind the broader dimension of the problem that needs to be addressed in parallel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u104	Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u105	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, it is too much to point out what we are doing in this national council, that we are actually adopting a law that has already been in force once, and then the ruling coalition has forced it into a different one, and now again into a new one, with something added, which is just as condescending and problematic. As a matter of fact, we are shutting down the healthcare department in the military, and this will also prove problematic. The consequences will be such. That is why I believe that this law, these changes, are not appropriate, except, of course, that return to the previous situation, as we had before the last amendment, and everything else is too small. The Ministry of Health seems to be running too fast after a quick procedure, with too little informed decisions, and then imposing this on us. Of course, I will not vote in favour of this law, I will abstain, for these very reasons. However, I would be very happy if the law were adopted in the previous version; I think that as far as medicines for children are concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Comrade Petty Officer. Anyone else want a word? He doesn't? Can I help you? Mr. Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Look, I just wanted to stress so much that this is not about hitting the Ministry of Health, but it is a coordinated proposal from the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Defence. Let me stress that the Ministry of Defence has already proposed a more rational regime for military health services or health services in the military in the Ministry of Defence in the past year. They've been talking to us for a while. We have estimated that it is actually more appropriate or more efficient, cost-effective and in other ways to involve or connect the operation of this activity and thus contribute to some greater rationality in the provision of health services.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-06-21-SDZ3-Redna-17.ana.u108	It's 2:00. Now we have to decide whether or not to continue; there is no work plan in the programme. Then we'll stop. I'm just asking if I can finish the general debate or if anyone wants a word. May I conclude the general debate? Comrade Petty Officer, would you mind further deliberating? No, then we'll do it Wednesday at 10:00. Okay. So, the general debate is not yet concluded. On Wednesday at 10 a.m., the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia will continue today's adjourned meeting of the National Assembly, at the 29th point of the bill amending the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance. Until then, I wish you well. We'll meet Monday at 8:00 when we meet at the festivities.
