ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon! I begin the 20th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and are unable to attend today's meetings: Jože Ašič until 2 p.m., Bogdan Barovic, Kelemina from 17 p.m. on, Janez Cimperman, Franc Tsukati from 16 p.m. on, Vojko Čeligoj, mag. Janez Drobčič from 12 till 17:00, Ferry Horvat, Janez Janša, Zmago Jelinčič, Jelko Kacin, Jože Kavtičnik from 15 till 18:00, Yuri Malovr, Ivan Mamić, Dorian Marchič from 17:00, Franz Pukšič from 12 noon onwards, Franci Rokavec, Jože Spindler, Jože Tanko from 16:00, Bogomir Vnučec. We're moving to 2. Point of the agenda, that is to say the draft decision on the description of the previous legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the recasting and privatisation of the Slovenian railway public undertaking, d.d. On the basis of the request of 40,000 voters received by the National Assembly on 8 November 2002, a proposal for a decree on the invitation to tender for a transitional legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the Slovenian public enterprise, d.d. I welcome the representative of the Government, Mr President, the Minister of Transport and Mr Prince, the Secretary of State in the Ministry of Transport. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups. We have three reports. First, Mr Kelemina, then Mr Podobnik and then Mr Pece. Please, Mr. Kelemina.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that. Respectable all together. Our parliamentary group, the Social Democratic Party, will support this proposal for a resolution on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the public enterprise Slovenske železnice, d.d. The opinion of our delegation is that, on the basis of all the documents collected in the last period and the comprehensive review of the operation and monitoring of the operation of the Slovenian Railway Company, we have found that the proposals and requirements of the trade unions, which have also put forward a proposal and an initiative to call for a previous legislative referendum, are fully justified. In fact, we note that there is no reason why the current administration and the current owner, the state or authority, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia would not be able to function successfully with the appropriate organisation, with appropriate measures, with the successful management of Slovenian railways as a whole. We believe that it is not necessary to break the systems of the Slovenian Railways in this way, as envisaged by the original proposed law, and that all the instruments with which the authorities and the management could of course ensure that the Slovenian Railways would be significantly more effective and effective than they are today, so that they can, of course, do so and trade unions are certainly not the obstacles that would make this impossible. In view of the European situation as they are, in the field of railway organisation in each country, we find that, in other countries, the railway system is best maintained as a whole in the public interest and that, also because of the national interests of each country, it is ensured that some specific status is ensured, or that certain development resources are provided for infrastructure on the railways alone, and that, then, also on the basis of some single operation, such a system works as successfully as possible. We are aware, of course, that some of the interventions, some of the reorganisation forms may be needed to be re-established, but we think that this could all be done within a single Slovenian Railway company and we do not actually see any reason for the need to break up the Slovenian Railways system, or to privatise it afterwards, so that certain parts that are now viable or perhaps even profitable to be privatised, all the other parts of the Slovenian Railways, which, of course, are non-profitable or which today bring loss, in particular, such as passenger traffic, would simply hang up, so to the extent that they are primarily wanted to be occupied by employees or in the final stage also all costs, increased operating costs or providing public interest in this area, would try to shift to the national budget. Our view is that with these proposals, which have been put forward for the call for a previous legislative referendum - and we expect, of course, this referendum to be adopted in such a form - to prepare such a proposal for a law that will take account of these solutions, which will also be confirmed and voted on at the referendum. So, our parliamentary group, once again, supports this proposal for a previous legislative referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Mr. Janez Podobnik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u4	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr. Secretary! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the public enterprise Slovenske železnice, d.d. It is also clear from the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service that the procedure, as set out in this case, has been corrected, all that is relevant to obtaining the necessary support and all other arguments. However, due to the correctness of the elections and voters and all those going to the referendum, we would like to draw attention to a few questions here. In our view, it is the responsibility of the National Assembly to call on voters and voters to sign a preliminary legislative referendum in such a way that people will know what they are deciding. This is actually the primary duty of the legislator. Colleagues and colleagues would like to be asked if we read again under the Roman two decrees, which reads: "The question to be raised at the referendum is "that, however, "or that the proposed law on the transformation and privatisation of the Slovenian railway public enterprise should regulate the transformation and privatisation of the public enterprise Slovenske železnice, d.d., otherwise as proposed," followed by six indents. In our view, some indents are unclear. This means that the referendum issue is unclear in some cases. Therefore, due to our responsibility for the elections and the electorate, we have also proposed a decision which I will only justify, which is based on Article 13 of the Law or I think that this is Article 15 of the Referendum Act, that "the National Assembly calls on the representative of the proposer or the initiators of the request to define the issue more clearly". We can do this in the course of this meeting so that there is no misunderstanding, and the date of the referendum remains. If you allow this to happen, you would give us a little more reason. The first indent is that "the Slovenian Railway Public Company continues to operate as a public and single undertaking and as such ensures the public interest of quality rail services, safety and rail transport regulation". This indent could in a certain sense be unclear because if the legislator subsequently incorporated it into the law and the government enforced it, it could be contrary to the international obligations that Slovenia has when it signed an association agreement with the European Union and could be contrary to the Treaty on European Union, where this agreement refers to this indent in certain articles. However, it may also be contrary to certain directives of the European Union. So this could be an understanding of this line. It is also important that 'the Slovenian Railways, d.d., include all those activities that are essential for the provision of rail services'. In our view, such a dictatorship as it is written does not fall within the referendum issue. All those activities that are urgently necessary for the provision of rail services - which are they? How will the electorate and the electorate decide? Here the proposer must complement this indent to make it clear what those services are. Railway services are the transport of passengers and goods and this is provided by Slovenian railways. However, in addition to these services there are: transport management on public railway infrastructure, equal maintenance or construction of public railway infrastructure, but these must be provided by the owner, the state; in what form, in what way, this is the owner, in which case the state. Therefore, in our view, the second indent is somewhat vague and it would be good for the proposaler to complete the referendum question. Thirdly, "in the event of privatisation, the Slovenian Railway Company, d.d., is privatised only as a whole, by maintaining the majority share in the future and thus ruling influence". This indent far exceeds only the question of the law which prompted this, i.e. this referendum. In fact, this interferes with the functioning of the State. By the way, is it possible to privatise a company as a whole? In our opinion, it is not possible. As the activity of the Slovenian Railways is also the management of traffic, which cannot be subject to privatisation. This activity must be provided by the State and must be carried out in such a way that it is available to all carriers under the same and equal conditions. In our view, therefore, it should be examined by the proposer whether this indent is clear that voters and voters can decide when they vote in favour or against. If I skip the fourth, even due to time constraints, and go to the fifth, that "the Republic of Slovenia rules the public undertaking of the Slovenian Railway to provide long-term systemic funding for those rail services that are carried out for public benefit. At such a level that the full difference between the price determined by the State and the actual costs of public transport required by the State will be covered and will also ensure adequate development". This indent, of course, goes far beyond the basic question, which was related to the law, on which the applicants then collected signatures for the referendum. By the way, what's this all about? What are the actual costs? What are the actual costs? There are different opinions here. How we will discuss these issues at the time of the so-called campaign before the referendum, when the applicants can have a completely different point of view than anyone else will have. Where the content of the indent is covered by the actual costs necessary for the public transport of passengers in rail transport, this arrangement is already subject to the price control law on the one hand, and on the other hand is a matter of a contract concluded by an undertaking with a State for which it provides public goods to its inhabitants. And this wealth can be provided by the state in different ways. Since it has to act as a good master, it will provide it in a way that will enable it to obtain these services efficiently and rationally. However, the legal regulation of this issue in favour of a particular transport area, or road or rail or rail, is legally controversial. The dispute may also be from the point of view of the international obligations of the State in this area. And the sixth indent that "the Government of the Republic of Slovenia shall ensure the accelerated implementation of the national programme for the development of Slovenian railway infrastructure". What does that mean, this line? What does it mean if the referendum is adopted? What does that mean, what is the legislator's obligation here? And the government's obligation? For the national programme is a declarant document setting out the objectives to be achieved in accordance with objective options within a given period. But you don't want to make it happen, unfortunately, depending in particular on the available funding. Of course, we want the country to open up as much as possible and ensure the speedy implementation of the national programme. But if this is once a dictatorship that has been adopted in the previous legislative referendum, then we will be able to come into a very awkward situation when we are preparing a law on this issue. So, of course, we support the signing of the referendum. However, we propose that, on the basis of Article 15 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative, the National Assembly invite the representative of the proposer or the initiator of the request to define the referendum issue more clearly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr. Sasha Pece has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u6	Your Honors are here! According to the Slovenian National Party's assessment, today's proposal for a debate is a result of partial interests in our country, which are very strong at the moment or during the period in which we are located and which are trying to challenge or eradicate at all costs the last remnants or economic giants. In this connection, we in the Slovenian National Party and we will, and at this point also oppose those partial interests, the purpose of which is only one, namely the sale of at least economic giants or companies, in the sense that they will acquire the appropriate replacement financial resources. It is also about today's debate on Slovenian Railways. In the Slovenian National Party, we agree and support the decision on the call for a previous legislative referendum, due to two basic positions and principles. We agree with this or say that the only option for Slovenian railways and thus for development is the even development of our country and for all that railways allow - and we know that they allow much - especially for those who, if we are now going on passenger transport, do not drive by personal means such as cars and, on the other hand, remote places represent or approach the centre of Ljubljana or the city centre. Slovenian railways must remain a public and unified company. We see only in this the future of Slovenian railways; breaking Slovenian railways into different parts, some of which will carry profits [[Freight transport]] And the other one's loss, it doesn't make sense. It makes no sense because, at least in the context of freight transport, if the idea of partial interests were to come true, we would move into the hands of Austrian or German capital and power, while passenger transport with loss would remain in Slovenian hands. And what that means is to cover an even greater loss that is being compensated somehow by freight traffic right now. In our client, we estimate that it is also economically justified to maintain the railway as a single enterprise; that the structure of the loss flows from one area to another and thus continues to decrease, as in the case that the sector that brings the biggest loss remains in our Slovenian hands. As far as the call for a previous referendum is concerned, as far as the referendums as the speaker has already defined before me are concerned, it makes sense - yes, indeed, it would make sense that these referenda or questions are clearly written as possible so that no different interpretations can be reached later. But I am sure, or in the Slovenian National Party, that this is more than the task of this Parliament and that this should basically be the task of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide a referendum in such a form that it can live even after people have decided on positive or negative reception. The second step, which is more important to us in the long term than of course the referendum issue, is the question of the structure of Slovenian railways or their economic forms. According to our assessment, following a referendum, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or this National Assembly should approach the basic issue, which is accompanied by quite a few economic giants and the result of which is a situation such as this. This is, on the one hand, a public undertaking which aims to satisfy the public interest, not at the price of profit, but at the price of a quality and affordable offer. On the other hand, this is, of course, a share company, which is governed by the Company Act, the main and sole purpose of which is to create capital. And as long as we agree to such legal dictions in Slovenia, that is, the public company of Slovenske železnice, d.d., where we come from one end to the other, we cannot expect such companies to work successfully. This is because at a certain point they refer to the label of a public undertaking. Let me repeat, the purpose of a public undertaking under the law on public companies is to ensure public interest, regardless of price and regardless of value or possible loss. On the other hand, it's d.d., where it's forbidden and it's [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] Thank you. [[...]] We'll support the decree.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u7	Thank you very much. These were presentations by the parliamentary groups. I now give my word to the Members and Members of Parliament. We have two motions for discussion here. First Mr. Aloise Sok and then Mr. Bogomir Zammernik. Yes, instead of Mr. Sok, Mrs. Maja Zupan will probably be. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u8	Thank you very much. I would like to take part in the debate instead of an absent colleague. As well as colleagues from New Slovenia, we support the motion for a decree that we decide on such an important issue as the privatisation of Slovenian railways at the referendum of citizens and citizens. The privatisation of Slovenian railways should certainly be carried out in such a way that the profitable part of Slovenian railways, the Slovenian rail system, is privatised by the transport of goods, while the transport of passengers would remain the burden of the country, i.e. taxpayers. However, it is concerned that the safety of passengers could be greatly deteriorated and that this would result in an accident, as we experienced years ago in Divača. The system, which the Slovenian Government wants to introduce, is therefore divided into three parts, i.e. the investment part, the transport part and the passenger part, has not worked in some countries. And speaking of England, we know that this system has been divided and experienced by some catastrophic railway accidents and is now thinking about reuniting the system. But if we look at the northern neighbor, Austria, where the rail system is unified, we see that they are doing well. While it is true that major losses occur in the Slovenian rail system, the single system itself will not bring, will not in itself, will not disappear. In order to achieve better results, transport policy and more freight and, of course, passenger transport through incentive measures should be changed to the railway. As a result, greater activity would also reduce emerging losses. I also note that the national programme for the development of Slovenian railways has entered a blind street, as it is virtually no longer implemented or only implemented less than 20%. I must say that in our parliamentary group, Novi Slovenija, we have been working since the beginning of the discussion of this law to discuss in depth how to privatise Slovenian railways. However, the government, or, more precisely, the Ministry of Transport did not want to hear about this and the desire to adopt a law as soon as possible, if I mention the lack of respect for trade unions as partners in this process, it has led to such a situation that the referendum is set before us on the basis of 40,000 signatures collected, which, of course, will also cost this country. After the end of the referendum, we will also be at the starting point when it is necessary to decide how to reduce losses. I support, and thus also the college, the referendum decree, but we are aware, and once again I would like to point out that the referendum would not come if the government could listen to its citizens and citizens in a timely manner. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Mr. Zammernik has the floor. Please. Mr. Kelemina, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u10	Thank you very much. I'll take another minute. In view of certain concerns expressed on the initiative itself or on the entry of referendum issues, I would like to comment in this respect in part on the fact that, if I am not mistaken, this proposal was a proposal, and it would also be good to say today that it is somehow harmonised and also corrected by our legislative and legal service. So that all of these uncertainties, which you are now some of or as Mr. Janez Podobnik has presented here, can of course be unclear for the unknowns of this situation in the Slovenian Railways, for all the acquaintances with all these data, but things are not so complicated that they are not understandable. Of course, a certain thing can be commented on, perhaps for reasons of inaccuracy, but given that the legislative and legal service has only processed this text and has also somehow aligned it with existing legislation and also with the objectives that this proposal for a previous legislative referendum should contain is not as vague as has been said. The fact is, of course, that in this area, and we have already said this a hundred times, to ensure that a national programme or national programme for the development of Slovenian railway infrastructure is adopted, in order to implement this national programme, so that funds are provided, because without all these real structures of financial long-term financing and so on we cannot make Slovenian railways a successful business. I am firmly convinced that, as long as there is no will on the part of the authorities, on the part of the owner to advocate for these financial consolidations to be made on the Slovenian Railways and to ensure long-term strategic and systemic financing of individual segments of Slovenian Railways, we cannot, of course, expect the efficiency of the operation of Slovenian Railways. In short, our assessment is that the description of the individual points of the referendum initiative is also coherent and understandable enough. That is why we will absolutely support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u11	Thank you very much. That's why my list of discussers is exhausted. We have a few more minutes. Who wants a word? Mr. Companion. Anyone else? Then Mr. Podobnik you have a few minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u12	Thank you, Vice President. I just want to warn my colleagues or suggest we make a good decision. I will personally support the referendum, because I have no other way. But before us is a referendum issue in the form that has not yet been held by any previous referendum. So extensive. Scope is not an argument. It can be extensive. But the law clearly states that it must be clear. And in some areas, in my firm belief, the referendum issue is not clear enough. I have justified this in my speech earlier and, in the fact that this referendum issue has not been clarified by the home labour body - not least by its rules of procedure, but not prohibited - the Vice-President suggested that we take advantage of the fifth paragraph of the current Rules of Procedure and that this evening, because perhaps not now, although perhaps it would be logical now to proceed as soon as possible, we will find together that we also gain the opinion of the working body. Because the working body could then also help if we decided in the evening, in what way the applicant should write the request more clearly. At least two or three indents in the referendum question. So my proposal, the Vice-President, is to put to the vote now or in the evening when we vote, a proposal on this issue, namely on the clarity of some indents, and this is Article 15 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, to get the opinion of the competent working body, this is the Infrastructure Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u13	Yes, Mr Podobnik, I note that this text was published in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and that an amendment could be made to this material. I could not accept this proposal, which you have submitted, because it only stated that the text, if I may quote, is: "On the basis of Article 15 of the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, the National Assembly calls on the representative of the proposer or the initiator of the request to define the question more clearly." It's just too loose a formulation that I can't accept. We need to be more specific about what is what is unclear. It is not possible to refer to any debate in this regard. We can only vote on a very specific formulation in the evening or when we vote, but we cannot vote on a decision that is very general. Because he doesn't say anything. That's why, of course, it's embarrassing now. On the one hand, there is a proposaler, i.e. a group of Members who think that the matter is too loose, but that it is too loose, but did not take advantage of the possibility of amending this text because it would be better, or they did not say, specifically in their proposal, not in the discussion of how to do it better, so that they can then discuss with the motions for a referendum question whether they accept it and then carry out the procedure as they need to. Now we've come to this point that could be unprecedented - the material was available, we could have amended it, and no one has. The Rules of Procedure of course I, please, Mr Podobnik, exceptionally another minute, because this is a new case, some new situation. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u14	Mr Vice-President, no one can amend the decree, the decision must not be amended, it cannot be amended, on the basis of the applicable law on the referendum initiative. But the diction I proposed is directly from the law. "If the national council is to me [[This is Article 15]] , that the request for a referendum does not express clearly the question which should be the subject of the referendum or if the request is not substantiated" - this is not an argument because it is justified -" invites the representative of the proposer or the initiator of the request to clearly define the question or to complete the request with an explanation". All I did was write this decision down from the law. I would like to point out that it has already been a practice that the National Assembly has already called on the proposers to define the referendum issue more clearly. However, as a help to the National Assembly, I have also proposed the way for a mother's working body to meet and then, in fact, this substantive debate, which has not yet been opened, to open up. In our opinion, some of the indents are unclear and will, in fact, put the electorate and voters in an awkward position at the referendum. That is why this solution is responsible, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u15	Well, as far as one previous case has been so decided, it has to be said that - if I recall correctly, it has been made clear how to change the referendum question - and in your case this is not. But the thing is, as I say, it can be unprecedented and I don't want us to make any more serious mistakes. I will therefore interrupt this agenda item at this time and, after consultation with the competent authorities of the evening, possibly take a decision - whether to put it to the vote, but so - that these issues are still discussed by the labour force. Then tomorrow, in the framework of tomorrow's vote, we would decide on this referendum issue. So we wouldn't lose more than a day and it would be enough time to study the matter and not make any mistakes. The Rules of Procedure, you know that - as Mr Podobnik himself said that the Rules of Procedure did not require the opinion of the parent working body, but the Group of Members found some disagreements. And I don't think we're going to make a big mistake if we postpone the decision for one day and clear things up at that time. I'm breaking this agenda. Thank you very much to the Minister and Secretary of State for his presence. We're moving to 3. Agenda item - Defence proposal for an inventory of the previous legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on invalidity organizations. A proposal for a preliminary legislative referendum was submitted to the assembly by a mag member. Janez Petty Officer with a word, five minutes. Here you go, Mr. Tiny.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u16	A nice greeting to all present at today’s meeting of the National Assembly! Allow me to further explain the reasons for, i.e. the initiative to call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on disability organisations. On 12.7.2002, a request was made for a referendum, which was undisputed and validly supported by more than 60,000 citizens and a similar question by more than 10,000 citizens. However, there have not yet been a call for a legislative referendum for questionable and legal reasons. The legal remedies submitted in defence of the right to referendum have not yet been adequately examined by the competent court and the decision on the invitation or non-signition of the previous legislative referendum is not yet definitive. These facts are well - known to the National Assembly. Despite that constitutional procedure, the National Assembly continued its consideration of the legal proposal. At that time it also began to operate under new business arrangements, which, inter alia, prevent the substantive complementarity of the law after the second consideration of the law had been completed, of course if no additions had been adopted at that stage. In the second reading, additions were submitted to the relevant legal provisions and were not adopted at the meeting of the competent committee of the National Assembly. Since no additions have been adopted in the legislative process to resolve the referendum issue, the situation and the need to submit a referendum initiative, which I have set up in accordance with the rules of procedure, has arisen and has also submitted with a view to the fulfilment of the citizens' will. I estimate that the initiators of the referendum, which, while collecting sufficient votes, have allowed themselves to abuse the citizens' initiative and have refused the constitutional will of the people after the referendum. Of course, the logical question is: Was the gathering of signatures merely speculation? Which, of course, means they misused the provision in the Constitution and people's will. This has also resulted in moral damage. If you and your colleagues decide not to accept the proposed referendum initiative, it will mean that you do not respect the will of 70,000 citizens who have signed that this issue needs to be checked at the referendum. This will also deny the constitutional provision on the fulfilment of the conditions for the referendum. All these legally insurmountable actions will have serious consequences for the Institute of Citizens' Initiative and respect for the will of citizens. In this situation, I believe that it means putting forward a proposal for the National Assembly to call a preliminary legislative referendum, the only possibility for the National Assembly to face the legal situation described. I am of the opinion that the National Assembly, in respect of the normative power of the fundamental civil right to a referendum, must do its utmost to avoid an unconstitutional situation. In the present situation, this means that the National Assembly must suspend the legislative procedure for the consideration of the proposal for a law on disability organisations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The proposal for a referendum was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Persons with Disabilities as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Brenčič, to present the report of the Committee - five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice to see you, dearest of all, first of all, welcome to you! At its 25th regular meeting on 6.11., the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons considered the proposal of the MEP mag. Janez Drobnič, the National Assembly, at its initiative, to present a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on disability organisations. The Committee was informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and it is necessary to conclude that this opinion concludes that all the conditions allowing the national assembly to decide on that proposal for the call for a preliminary legislative referendum are met. Furthermore, the Legislative and Legal Service also notes that the exact same question has already been raised by the initiator Elena Pecarič, who was informed by the President of the National Assembly that the deadline for collecting signatures will not be re-set, since it is a very same issue, on which the deadline for collecting voter and electorate support has already been opened, and an appropriate number of support has not been collected. However, the circumstances regarding this bill have not changed in any way from the first to the present initiative. In spite of the absence of the proposal, the members of the Committee took note of the proposal that the National Assembly should, on its initiative, call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on disability organisations and, on the basis of the opinion of the legislative and legal service, decide without discussion on the decision to be taken: the Committee supports the proposal of a member of mags. Janez Drobnič, the State Assembly, at its initiative, to call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on disability organisations and to propose to the National Assembly to adopt it. Before the decision was presented, the members of the Committee decided by two votes in favour, with nine votes against. On the basis of that Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for Health, Work, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons, it proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: Janez Drobnič, a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on disability organisations is not to be held at the initiative of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u19	Thank you very much. There are no government representatives here, nor have they been reported for discussion. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. In a row, Mrs Danica Simšič, United List, then Mr France Cukjat, SDS, then Mr Stanislav Brenčič, SLS and then Mr Sašo Pec, SLS. Mr. Punch, on behalf of the United List, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Ambassadors of the United List of Social Democrats supports the opinion of the parent committee that a proposal from the MEP should be made. Janez Drobnič does not accept the previous legislative referendum as an invitation to tender. While this is an important but legal and actually very specific issue of criteria for organising disability organisations. The profession, international comparisons, views of different interest associations have given this issue thorough arguments and definitions. The mother’s working body has dealt with them in depth and has sought solutions that would still be acceptable from an expert and, above all, from a different interesting point of view. Referendum decision-making on such specific issues is very difficult. If it occurs, two groups of disabled organisations and their views will face it in particular. And everything will, I simplify, be reduced to the ability of one group and another to bring more supporters to the referendum and reach the majority. In our opinion, this is not the point of democratic decision-making. Second. The referendum decision and the problem posed by Member Drobnic has already been the subject of a referendum initiative, twice. First it was submitted by a society for the theory and culture of handicap, but it did not collect the necessary signatures. And secondly, it was given by Mrs Elena Pecarič; because it was the same initiative, the President of the National Assembly did not accept it. We are also convinced that the renegotiation of the same referendum, with the same content when no signatures were collected three months earlier, would in fact constitute an abuse of the law. We therefore felt that such an initiative had not been adopted. We believe that such abuse of the law, even though it meets all the formal conditions, is also Mr Drobnic's proposal. Unless we're used to it, we don't hope to name things by their real name. It is not right to refer to the initiative or request of another group that has collected 60,000 signatures because this second group demanded something completely different. For the law should be adopted as it is actually proposed in the national assembly. For the third time, the previous legislative referendum, and this is also in principle, according to the UK Group, is a constitutional but inadequate solution that does not contribute to the responsible role of the legislator, which in particular allows the delaying of the legislative process and the nagging of the national assembly, and in particular the very expensive procedures for the clarification of citizens and citizens, including the issues for which Members and Members have actually elected and would expect to be able to take a responsible decision on these issues. Anything necessary to ensure democratic procedures, everything necessary to ensure the impact and control of citizens and citizens on the National Assembly, could be ensured by a confirmation or rejection referendum to which we stand. That is, after the National Assembly passed the law. Anyone who was dissatisfied with the content of the law adopted could still request that it be confirmed or adopted by the State Assembly at the referendum to be endorsed or rejected by citizens and citizens at the referendum. It would therefore be appropriate to allow the National Assembly to carry out its legislative function and to give citizens and citizens the role of a really confirmer or one who refuses, not an actor directly in the adoption of the law. These are finally the standards of democracy in Europe. It would therefore be right for everyone to finally read and familiarise themselves with the study of the research sector of the National Assembly of 2 July 2002 under the title Analyses of the Legislative Referendum and find that, in no comparable European country alone, do they know the binding preliminary legislative referendum. Therefore, Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will vote against the call for a referendum.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr France Tsukati, Social Democratic Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. The Social Democratic Party supports the proposal for two reasons. First time. Over 60,000 signatures have been collected for the referendum and we believe that there is no reason, there is no excuse for a single proposal to short-circuit the weight of these 60,000 signatures and withdraw the proposal for a referendum that has been given - a proposal that has otherwise been formulated slightly differently but contains the same elements and content as the proposal that we now have before us. Thus, we believe that, out of respect for more than 60,000 signatories, we should allow a preliminary referendum. However, the second reason is that the solution currently being proposed is not appropriate. That is, if the current solution requires that a disability organization involves persons with disabilities, either by type of disability or by social status, it means that the disabled are determined by what criteria they may combine. This is, of course, contrary to freedom of association, to the basic purpose of a society defined by the law, where freedom of association is a fundamental element, either by the criteria chosen by persons with disabilities or by the absence of criteria. Thus, the current doctrine, which determines whether by type of disability or social status, stipulates that, for example, the people with disabilities of Ljubljana, who would all be associated with a society of Ljubljana disabled persons, might not be able to eliminate or mitigate architectural obstacles in Ljubljana, even though we may have included a third of all persons with disabilities in Slovenia. It seems to me that this is an inappropriate solution that does no good to anyone but harms the disabled. Another issue that is very questionable in this law is the number of people with disabilities. The limit of 33% means that in the field of some type of disability, only two disabled organisations will be allowed to obtain representativeness status, only two and only two in terms of social status. These criteria raise the issue of freedom of inclusion in various disability organisations. It means whether a disabled person can be involved in different organisations. And if, then, a limit of 33% and similarly ridiculous, is discriminatory, it means only some gray fox in granting representation status, it means some possibility of great will of the state authorities in granting this status. We really believe that this solution is inadequate and that this also warrants the reason that, unless we ourselves adopt an adequate solution, we allow voters to decide on it at the referendum. Certainly, however, the basic argument of our position to support this proposal, which is respect for 60,000 signatures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Stanislav Brenčič, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u24	Thank you very much again for your word. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware that this law may not be an ideal proposal for a law that is still in the procedure, a law on disability organisations, or perhaps that it does not fully address all the expectations of those who expect it. However, it must be said that the adoption of this law has been linked to a very long period of time, has a long beard and that the proposal of this law has led to considerable debates, arguments, and that the content of the proposed law has changed considerably through this debate. In any event, at the time of adoption of this law, a number of conflicts are confirmed or additionally potential, which in the system of disability organisations, if so called, are present and are sometimes so exclusive at personal level that, if nothing else is good, we can overcome this law at least. But there's a lot of other things going on. In any event, the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group supports the proposal for a decision of the parent working body, not because, as I said, the law would be completely ideal. In its content and concept, the law is as possible at the moment. However, it may be possible that, in any case, if implemented at least in the context of the law, the law entails that it slightly exceeds the existing situation and does not follow the existing situation to the extent it may have wished, it will certainly bring much better in the field of disability protection than if the law had not been, or if we continued to postpone the adoption of this law. That is why, of course, the parliamentary group supports the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u26	Your Honor! The fact is that this is another area where, on the one hand, it is legislative and on the other hand, the executive power in our country has fallen. That this is another area that we do not self-critically know how to regulate in a way that does not suit the customers of this legislation. And who do we write the laws for? Apparently in this country we write laws for the exclusive government of the Republic of Slovenia and this national assembly. That these laws do not reflect themselves in reality and that they do not make it possible to live normal lives for those to whom the laws are intended. First review goes to all of us. We have not been able to provide or provide for the interests of individual groups in this country. In our case, the disabled. The fact is, 60,000 signatures were collected. The fact is that the legal criteria are met. It is also true that, according to our assessment, there has been either an intentional or unintentional error on the part of Mr Drobnik. But this error is still smaller than the matter signed by 60,000 people. I think we need to stick to the legislation and this is also the position of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentations of the parliamentary groups. We are moving on to a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Janez Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u28	Thank you very much again for your word. This is a sensitive issue of representativeness, which means that it has a major impact on the rights of citizens, individuals. All too much so far and over the last twenty or twenty or twenty years we have agreed to the fact that the organization is over an individual. My desire and the effort I have had to turn this around to make it an individual who is affected by rights, freedom of decision and the right to an independent life. We also asked other institutions in Europe what they thought about this law. They said. The law enforces the medical model of disability, not to mention a specific model and system of disability detection or integration adopted by an international health organisation which denies it. It is precisely to prevent segregation and to ensure integration. For this law goes in the opposite direction by being segregated. That is why some have put forward an initiative for the referendum. This was not only because of the whims, but it shows - one or the other - that in this area things creak, that things are not guaranteed what is necessary. I also touched on this area in yesterday's question. There are also very large differences in social transfers based on disability. That's what our country didn't do. Then my colleague, Mr Potsch, tells me that what I am investing is speculation and that this is not democracy. Excuse me, Mr Potrč, I have submitted this in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with no intention of guessing. I don't know, but you consider all of this democratically accepted and human beings sticking to it, flirting. Unless, of course, you imagine democracy as it once was 40 years ago. Yeah, that's it. Did I invest in accordance with the business arrangements? Was it clearly pawned? That's what the secretariat said. You may have gotten away with that saying, but it shows some reflection in our national assembly. That's the law. I'm not against it. However, I want this country to have such a law that the rule of law will prevail and that the individual's rights over the rights of the organisation will be exercised. This is still happening that the organisation is above and beyond, all that leads to this, of course, I will oppose. Representation will, of course, be difficult to ensure in the way it was presented by the government or on the one hand. Why not, why not support the proposals we have tabled in good faith with a view to making the way to representativeness easier? Why is that? Why limit the rights of the disabled to choose who will represent them? I really don't get it. That is why this initiative has also been put in place. There is nothing out of sync, it is in accordance with the procedure, with the Rules of Procedure. And that's why I don't allow anyone to challenge me or tell me that it's a conjecture. And since certain means and means have now been invested in or are being put in place to verify this, it would be prudent and reasonable to postpone consideration. At the same time, we're tied to something else. The Humanitarian Organizations Act, in which the National Assembly therefore decided that these two laws would go in parallel somehow. This is also an additional reason why these two laws could be adopted normally in favour of those who are affected in this society and need a certain law and a way of supporting them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u29	Thank you very much. We've got about five minutes left. Who else wants to discuss it? Mr. Potts. Anyone else? Three, okay. Then about a minute and a half each. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I have neither the right to expect nor the right to demand that Mr Petty Officer listen carefully, even less so as to properly understand what I was going to say. That's why I'm going to quote my statement again. I believe that such abuse of the law, even though it meets all the formal conditions, I have stressed that it meets all the formal conditions, is also Mr Drobnic's proposal. And the fact that something, some proposal meets all the formal conditions, is contrary to some other, the same legal objectives or regulations, is the abuse of the law. I have simply argued that in this case, because this is a third, exactly the same proposal, the abuse in the sense that it is formally corrected means that the National Assembly is putting itself in a position when it cannot carry out its legislative function, even though it has already tried three times to present the same question to the referendum. The other referendum that could have been announced - and I did not assess whether the withdrawal of that proposal had been corrected or not - I did not define it, but it is, of course, entirely different in substance, contrary to that proposal and cannot be linked at this point. So I think we should get along this way. However, since the proposal is formally tabled, of course we have to decide on it, and I will, and also our Group of Members, have the right to assess what it means, but we have the right to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u31	Thank you. Mr. Gasparini, one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Well, he'd only touch two things. First of all, I agree with Mr Brenčič that this law is not ideal, but I hope to say that we have not yet adopted an ideal law in this House, and I do not think we will. However, we have satisfied this law and adopted it, therefore, 92% of people with disabilities in Slovenia. Mr Pece - he is not here - says that we have fallen as parliament and government on this issue, but I do not think we have, because we have satisfied 92% of the people with disabilities in Slovenia. And there's another thing. I don't know how you get to 60,000 signatures; you're probably counting or adding up one and the other referendums. Yes, otherwise, the President of the National Assembly would not have refused to do so and would have said that, at a certain time, 40,000 signatures had not been collected, and he therefore rejected the proposal. You count each other, then what Mr Porč said is purely incorrect - so the question has been asked differently, otherwise, not as you say.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u33	Thank you. Mr. Petty Officer, one and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u34	Well, I'd like to replicate Mr. Potsch at the same time. You can look at the magnetogram, and you'll see blackmail and speculation; that's just the thing that came up. At the same time, I'd like to replicate the speaker in front of me. There were 60,000 signatures for one referendum question, and for another more than 10,000, I don't know the exact number. But that's for sure, the number was collected, but then whoever collected the signatures decided not to invest, but I don't know why. With regard to the collection of signatures, however, this organisation has spent a great deal of money on this referendum issue, and I would ask myself, from what title - from that address, which is intended for the integration of persons with disabilities, for their rehabilitation, for their training, for their normalization in life. I'm sorry, God, that's what you have to say, and that's the facts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I don't think there are any debaters anymore, so I'm closing the debate. The proposal for a decision will be decided today at 8.15 a.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. The minute is until the next item in the agenda. I don't think it's going to be wrong if we just continue with the meeting. We're moving to four. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill on violations. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representatives of the Government for further explanation of the bill. At the same time, I welcome the Minister and the Secretary of State. Mr. Jenull, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Thank you for your word. This is a second reading of the law that this National Assembly took into consideration at its first reading, including at its plenary session. At that time, a broad debate was held and the panellist followed this debate and I can conclude that the law which comes before you today with a complementary proposal follows those conclusions and comments from the debate that further amend individual provisions in order to make the legislative purpose a reality. I want to say that the law is always following the basic purpose of the Constitutional Court's decisions in this area, that it is necessary, by law, to definitively and unequivocally include judges for offences between the judiciary. In this regard, the solution, as is now in the complementary proposal, is that judges for offences become judges of district or higher courts, also in line with the existing network of courts, with its greater transparency and with the creation of so-reinforced criminal courts, allows for greater mobility, greater responsiveness and easier handling of cases. On the other hand, even in the complementary proposal supported by the applicant, a number of provisions remain which simplify the procedures for offences and transfer the powers in these matters to the criminal authorities. However, only judicial protection in these cases and decision-making in those cases remains within the jurisdiction of the courts when it is necessary because individual sanctions interfere with fundamental human rights and freedoms. In doing so, it is expected that these cases, which will be decided by the criminal authorities, will be settled at least for half of the cases currently brought before the criminal courts, which means that at least half of these cases will be settled or will be decided only in the opposition proceedings, which is being resolved by a judge in the district court, and the law also allows an expert to act in this proceeding. This means that this concept also leads to the unloading of courts and judges from those cases that can be passed on to others. There is also a complaint and there remains a regular trial of judges for offences, now as judges of the courts, in those cases where there is an expression of foreign sanctions, such as criminal matters, when it comes to proceedings against minors and when it comes to certain other actions, as I have mentioned, to fundamental human rights and obligations. In these cases, a complaint to a higher court is then provided, so that judicial protection is complete and in accordance with the requirements laid down by the Constitution and as laid down by the European Convention on Human Rights, which considers it to be a criminal offence and is therefore conceptually now being dealt with as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Lavrintz, to present the report of the Committee. Five minutes is scheduled for that. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u38	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I will not repeat the matters that have also been presented to us on the Committee by a government representative, Mr Jenull, but I think that it is necessary to say with regard to the amendments to this law that these changes have taken place for nine years. Of course, the proponents, in this case the government, did not come along with those who usually represent themselves as a professional public, but, as the committee said, are, of course, lobbyists for their area. There's been no complete alignment. In addition to these cases, which have been exposed, there has also been considerable discussion on the Committee about the fact that part of the offences would simply be deleted, i.e. the introduction of some kind of amnesty of persecution. In this way, of course, we might make it easier to work at the beginning. We have heeded the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Service. The discussion of the members of the Committee, however, highlighted the following. Therefore, the current organisation of offences is pointless and reckless, as it does not ensure effective action that the refugees in Europe are, therefore, all - the arrangements in Europe are similar to those we now enforce with this law. In addition, it must be said that, with regard to the amendments proposed by the four parliamentary groups, we have adopted quite a few amendments - I think ten - to the amendments, so that the text was better. And all of this was based on a debate on the committee. I must also say that the Council of Judges for Offences has made some comments and has taken them into account in its work and in the drafting of amendments to the amendments or in the drafting of its amendments. The Senate of the Republic for Offences has proposed a few comments, and we have also made a statement or declaration of them by preparing some amendments to the amendments, such as Article 230. However, I must say that there was also a fear on the Committee that such a reorganisation of criminal law would not be effective or that it could happen if the law were to enter into force in 2005. Such an opinion was mainly the President of the Supreme Court. The representative of the Judicial Council, who, while expressing support for such amendments to criminal law, expressed fear that there would be a deterioration of judicial statistics. However, in opposition to such concerns by the proposer, it has always been duly pointed out that the majority has decided as is clear from the proposed law. Well, the Council of State also participated in the formation of this law, by proposing some kind of quick instance or instance for quick procedures and proposing even an increase in fines in case it was not adopted. In doing so, I must say that the members of the committee have been informed that the Committee has asked for the status of the matter by the Republic Senate for its misdemeanours. Above all, we were interested in how many things are actually year-old, but we have not reached data. The explanation, the President of the Senate, was that they did not have such records. And after what's infuriating and pouring out, so to speak, in the Senate, it was clear that there were more than 10,000 cases. That is why most members of the Committee have adopted such a procedure, which should therefore be shorter, other criminal authorities and, of course, all the judicial protection that is here. At the same time, I think it is also necessary to say that this law is intertwined in some part with a new criminal code, which will introduce certain criminal offences, i.e. to redefine as crimes, especially those serious offences, which were also worth thinking about because experience abroad teaches that multiple returnees, especially, in the field of alcohol, speedy driving and those who commit, should be treated more seriously than people who have committed offences against criminal law. So the conclusion would be that the committee, as you've seen from the report, [[...]] [[It's a warning sign for the end.]] - because I conclude, yes - has accepted quite a few amendments and the text is well corrected. [[...]] I suggest you accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u39	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be conducted on the basis of the review of the amendments of 19 November 2002. First of all, Article 19 is here, so I am putting to the debate Article 19 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members, the LDS Club of Parliament, the United Nations Group of Members and the DeSUS Group of Members. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to paragraph 23. I therefore put to the debate Article 23 and the amendment of the SLS, LDS, the United List and DeSUS. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 26 and the amendment of the SLS, LDS, the United List and DeSUS. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving on to Article 31 and the amendment of the SLS, LDS, the United List and DeSUS. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Article 114 and the amendment of the SLS, LDS, United Lists and DeSUS Group. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. 135. Article and amendments of the SLS, LDS, United Lists and DeSUS groups. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. Article 143 I am putting to the debate Article 143 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 207 and the amendment of the SLS Group of Members, the LDS Group of Members, the United Nations List and DeSUS. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 214 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Yes, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u40	Thank you for your word. A few would touch on this article or the amendment we have tabled. The amendment of the law also changes the network or location of judges, abolishing the judges for offences, and thus abolishing these attitudes in some places. Now, by removing these sites, where such offences are being dealt with, otherwise they are not very pleasant, these treatments will also be carried to 20 more kilometres away, and some of the judges for offences in areas where the availability of state services is already so problematic. And citizens already have extremely serious problems with transport matters, as this public transport network is also not regulated. Therefore, we have proposed a supplement to this article, which would also maintain the exhibition in locations where the current judges for offences are. In view of Mr Jenul's debate in the previous session, I expect the government to support this amendment, and I expect Members to do the same. This would open the article and then somehow try to find a better solution by the third reading. I certainly expect that this small step can also enable areas and places to maintain this or these acquisitions that they have with the services of the State. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u42	Thank you, President, for your word. Dear colleagues. We will oppose this amendment in the Liberal Democracy Group. And I'd like to explain why. See, the whole purpose of this, among other things, is to achieve what the Constitutional Court has already ordered several times by reorganisation of courts. That is, as has already been pointed out today, that offenders are part of the judiciary and that offences as such are part of criminal law. The purpose of this amendment, as the motioner said, is quite clear. It is true that the reorganisation in certain environments will lose the seat of these judges for offences. However, something needs to be taken into account. With the new Act on Offences, when it enters into force, there will be fewer violations in the ordinary procedure. The estimates show that more than half of the cases will be resolved at the first stage of no complications. Thus, the decline in these cases, which are now being dealt with by judges for offences, after the current system is in force. Last but not least, the current system has also given birth to all these backlogs, which judges deal with for offences, are objectively no longer able to eliminate them, objectively, because the fate of new cases is the same as it is. That's how it's to be taken into account. And, of course, if rationalisation works in some locations at some point in time also on buildings, this does not mean that such a service will be deprived of people in certain environments. Infringement authorities will solve a number of cases in the first instance. However, if there are objections, they will, of course, be dealt with by the District Courts or the Judges of the District Courts in accordance with this new reorganisation. We'd lose more if we supported this amendment. See, when the amendments were being prepared in this regard, we found that this reorganisation would also bring certain savings on the premises of the current offenders. The type of offenders has such personnel and remains, and it is pointless to have so many people pitched on several sides and therefore there is a lot of support staff at these locations. With this reorganisation, we will bring this together, rationalise it, and the system will also allow for retraining and other matters. That is how I think that if we supported this amendment, at least these effects of reorganisation would be lost.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u43	Anyone else want a word with this amendment? Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u44	Thank you. Otherwise, I understand the position of the Liberal Democracy, but it would make sense that the article should at least open itself up to give those 30 days or a few days of opportunity to study these matters. It is the abolition of outposts or courts for offences on the ground that are relatively less accessible. Currently, the judge for offences in Ribnica, services in Ribnica are provided by citizens of the Municipality of Loški tok, which already has 40 km to Ribnica and poor traffic connections. The next criminal court is in Kočev, which is even 20 kilometers further away. And I think we should actually look at where this contraction is, this rationalisation is appropriate and where it is not. After all, in all this rationalisation of the state administration, we have also maintained the exhibitions of the home offices, which are much less problematic and much less frequent, and we have kept them on the ground as part of the network of administrative units. While in this case, when it comes to doing these things, this matter is somehow being deleted and withdrawn to other ends. I don't think that's the perfect move. Therefore, I also propose, once again, that the amendment be supported and that a better text be prepared by the third reading, if this is not appropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Lavrinz.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u46	Thank you so much for saying that. This amendment cannot be supported for several reasons. This is not about the administration service, this is about the procedure - this is the first - and this is the case in this case. Secondly, paragraph 214 of Article 214 allows for this possibility, but it is by no means illegal. This is a purely lobbyist proposal for judges to remain where they are, and of course they would continue to be emperors on their property. That's why I don't think this kind of intervention is acceptable to the law. Additional argument: The Germans went to reorganisation of the judiciary by saying that the courts could only be courts with ten or more judges. At our place, we're crushing it. The experience of 1994 has to teach us something - that at that time, I will say, 'hopefully', judging so much that the head aches because of all of these suports that the courts need. However, we want to have courts which will be operational, rationally organised, and, of course, in such a case, if the District Court considers that it is cheaper for it to carry out these procedures outside the seat, this will be done; but if not, no. It is not a privilege to give to people who have actually broken through the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Anyone else at 214? [[No one else.]] I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to 225. So I am putting to the debate Article 225 and the amendment of the SLS, LDS, the United List and DeSUS. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 227 and the amendment of the SLS, LDS, the United List and DeSUS. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the amendments in accordance with the timetable for the meeting today at 8.15 p.m. I hereby terminate this item of the agenda and also the meeting of the National Assembly. We'll continue at 12.05. Thank you very much to the Minister and to the Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u48	We're moving to five. At the end of the day, this is the second reading on amendments to the Public Prosecutions Act. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Bizjak, please. Two minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u49	Mr Vice President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! Allow me first of all to propose to the National Assembly that the third examination of the State Prosecutor's Office Act be carried out on the basis of the first paragraph of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. at the same meeting of the National Assembly, since only one amendment is proposed for the second reading. So the limit of a dozen articles will not be reached. At the same time, of course, we want this law to be enforced as soon as possible because it contains some important news from the State Prosecutor's Office. The first of these is, of course, an arrangement that allows for greater mobility, including greater efficiency in the work of state prosecutors. Another such, in our opinion, is an important novelty better, more precise determination of the supervision of state prosecutions, including the provision on the duty of the state prosecutor, the Attorney-General, to inform the National Assembly by 31 May each year of the work of state prosecutors, so that there will be a possible debate on this before parliamentary holidays. Judicial supervision by the Ministry of Justice is also further regulated, of course to a limited extent, which is without prejudice to the decision-making and independence of state prosecutors. It is also about the organisational changes that have already been discussed. However, the issue of access to files and records has also been more detailed and more appropriately addressed. Here, the proposer also supports the amendment that eliminates the legal void that has so far been in this area. So it's detailed when it's not possible to see. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u50	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy as a parent working body. I'd like to ask the vice president of the committee of mags. Majdo Potter to present the Committee's report. Three minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u51	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The second reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the State Prosecutor's Office was carried out by the Committee of the National Assembly for Internal Policy at its 27th regular meeting on 12 November. The representative of the proposed committee first presented the aim of the law, ensuring greater efficiency of the work of the state prosecutors, and explained the Government's position on the amendments tabled. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented the opinion of the Office and drew attention to the nomotechnical irregularity of certain amendments by MEP Paul Rupar and should therefore be amended accordingly. In particular, it drew attention to the provision of Article 203(3) of the Law on Public Servants, which would repeal Article 58 of the Law on Public Prosecutions with effect. In this regard, the Internal Policy Committee later adopted the Supplement. The Attorney-General supported the proposed amendment of the law as it is intended to increase the effectiveness of state prosecutors in the amendment of the law and enable them to carry out their duties better. In the face of a dilemma, to maintain or to put an end to the higher prosecutions, it has ensured that state prosecutors will be able to carry out their work after both solutions, even though they themselves have committed themselves to retaining the higher prosecutions and granting additional powers at the first stage. In addition to Article 18, the high mobility of prosecutors is ensured. This will accelerate the resolution of problems and backlogs. It only pointed out that it might be appropriate to provide that a public prosecutor may be assigned to a group of state prosecutors for special cases without his written consent, as experience shows that, due to the complexity and the strain of the state prosecutors, they do not like to decide on this work. However, for the proposed amendment to Article 66, which deals with the right of access to the file, she proposed a re-examination. The members of the Committee supported the proposed amendment in principle and drew attention to the issue of financing the professional centre established by the Attorney General's Office. The Chairman of the Committee explained that the financial implications of the legislative proposals tabled for the State budget are the responsibility of the Committee of the State Finance and Monetary Policy. This, however, has been the subject of a legal proposal for consideration under Rule 124 of the Rules of Procedure. The Committee did not adopt a complement to Paul Rupar. He accepted all the additions of four groups of Members and two of his additionals. After the discussion and the vote, he voted on all the articles of the bill together and adopted them. By including the amendments adopted in the legislative proposal, the Committee set out the text of the amended draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Presentations of the positions of the delegations shall follow. First Mrs Majda Zupan, Nova Slovenija, 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u53	Thank you for your word. Mr Minister, Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. With the 1994 amendment of the State Prosecutor's Act, the proposaler, as we have already heard, particularly to enable more effective enforcement of powers and additional professional support for the functioning of state prosecutors, a certain alignment with other regulations, complement domestic operations and ensure greater mobility of state prosecutors, regulate appointments in their types and international legal assistance. The proposal places the State Prosecutor's Office as part of the judiciary in a broader sense and provides for the internal regulation to be adopted by the competent minister of the state of prosecutor's office. The hierarchical organisation of the State Prosecutor's Office is expected to simplify itself, as the applicant abolishes higher state prosecutors than the reckless drug authorities. However, a serious question is raised: Should the higher prosecutions be abolished or not? Amendments are necessary, but any shortcomings which the applicant points out in the grounds for the adoption of the law could not be remedied in any way. This is clearly what the Ministry is aware of. As a result, in 2000 it formed a commission dealing with the drafting of amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act. Since this is a system law based on the State Prosecutor's Office Act, its amendments will bring about changes in the role of the State Prosecutor and thus probably also in the organisation of the State Prosecutor's Office. It seems that we are facing a shift to a purely contradictory system, which will, to the greatest extent, interfere with the role of a higher state prosecutor, as senior state prosecutors from the current combination of the party on the one hand and at the same time the guardian of legality, on the other, will become parties with all rights and obligations in the contradictory procedure. It is not possible to fully agree with the assessment and the reasons for the adoption of the law, as stated by the applicant. Reference to the report of the project on the modernisation of the judiciary and the education of judges, and to the Court of Auditors' conclusion report on the revision of the soundness of the conduct of state prosecutors in 1997, 1998 and 1999 should constitute a reference to the applicant to draw up a law that would regulate the status of state prosecutors, including the higher ones, in accordance with the relevant procedural and criminal legislation. The abolition of senior state prosecutors, as proposed, in the absence of consistency of the latter, does not offer a substantive abolition of this body, but merely by the loss of its independence, which should be properly incorporated by the State Prosecutor's Office in the hierarchy, causes confusion and negligence in the management of the post of senior state prosecutors. The restrictions imposed by the proposal are restrictive and thus change the position of the State prosecutor as a formerly independent and independent body to the administrative authority under the control of the government, which will therefore depend on the political situation in the country on a case-by-case basis. The responsibilities of this body as a whole, as the powers and rights of the officials, are substantially reduced in the proposal, thus interfering with the existing legal order. However, this means a significant derogation from the rules of the judiciary and thus the amended function of the state prosecutors and the status of the authorities would no longer be comparable to that of most European countries. Since, therefore, it is not the substantive abolition of senior state prosecutors, but merely the loss of their independence, which should be properly integrated into the state-indictment hierarchy, the financial impact of such changes will not be positive, as the applicant seeks to demonstrate. The number of employees is unlikely to decrease. We argue that the opposite: two new jobs are envisaged. Neither is their work circle. On the other hand, it is not yet possible to present any negative financial consequences that the need to change office operations will entail, starting with changes in the records, file sheets, stamps and other designations, and adjustments to the cases and archives of the current higher public prosecutions. As has already been demonstrated by the practice of judicial reform, this is a procedure which is counterproductive and has a negative impact on the timing of cases. That is why we do not support such a proposal in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Mr. Miran Potč has the word, the United List. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u55	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The State Prosecutor's Office is part of the judiciary and must act in accordance with the Constitution and the law as part of its fundamental function, this is prosecution of crimes. Public prosecutors are, in particular, obliged by the law to resolve matters assigned to them without delay. Constitutionality and legality, independence in the performance of their duties and responsibilities, and integrity, consistency and up-to-date in the work of the so-called inseparable component of the state prosecutor's office. This law is also intended to contribute to the achievement of these objectives, according to the assurances of the applicant and the state-intelligence organisation. These are also the fundamental criteria that we have taken into account and evaluated in the United Nations Group of Social Democrats when we decided to support the law. The entire judiciary, including the criminal authorities, which we have dealt with in the previous paragraph, has been rightly criticised for a long time for the update of its operation. It is true that the problem of backlogs in criminal matters is smaller than in criminal proceedings in civil and criminal cases, but the effectiveness of the prosecution and the courts, as well as the police in detecting crimes and punishing perpetrators, is not always envyful. While the police and the prosecution are better involved, this cooperation is also highlighted in the public eye. We are also more informed in due time about the charges brought and also about the first-degree judgments issued. Unfortunately, no significant criminal behaviour remains unexplained for a long time, but occasionally in a court of appeal, as we say, "fall" also very resounding first-degree judgments. There is an impression in the public - I do not say that it is entirely justified - that advocates, at least some, have adapted faster and more effectively to new conditions and prosper, including with media aid, to sanction any error of the prosecution and the courts, and that this is also a reason for sometimes discontent over concrete behaviour. We expect some of these issues to be tackled more effectively by this law. In particular, it is the provisions that state prosecutors are obliged without undue delay to resolve the cases assigned to them and that their misdemeanour and misdemeanours are subject to disciplinary sanctions; that the Attorney General may appoint another local prosecutor to represent them on a case-by-case basis if it is evident that such proceedings will be made easier and more effective; that, due to the exceptional increase in workload or the abolition of major arrears, the Attorney-General for a limited period of time of the Prosecutor-General may be transferred to another appropriate prosecutor's office; that, in the event of discharge from the post of Head of State Prosecutor's Office for at least three years, he may not be able to make progress as a prosecutor; and that - the proposaler claims that, after a serious consideration - also the higher state's prosecutors' assessment, as well as the majority of the prosecution's organizations have failed to carry out their functions. By bringing senior state prosecutors together to the Attorney General's Office, while maintaining two levels or two names, the applicant claims that work should be better and more evenly organised throughout the State Prosecutor's Office. These are the main points, not the only ones that make us believe that it is right to support the law and to accept the applicant's assurances that these proposed changes and additions will also contribute to the greater effectiveness of justice. That's why we support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr Rudolf Peta of the Social Democratic Party has the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u57	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor! So this is already another amendment to this law since 1994, which somehow proves - and this is also the opinion of our parliamentary group - that in the previous case it was more or less for some cosmetic changes that did not affect the substance. I could say even more - it was some of the harmful changes that I will then mention below. In our parliamentary group, we agree with the proposaler's opinion that the law was already subject to a slightly better cosmetic amendment to the law of a former country in its original 1994 text. The intent of the law or these amendments should, at least the objectives pursued by the applicant, be to regulate certain issues that are more or less successful. Thus, for example, the acquisition of personal data on persons under investigation, the possibility of an optional delegation of the local competent state prosecutor's office, the change in the conditions for appointment to the post of district prosecutor's office, the introduction of a meeting for members of the professional commission - which is probably not the most important point that will bring significant changes - then the possibility of appointing district attorneys or state prosecutors' assistants to the National Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the establishment of a legal and information centre with the State Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia and then, of course, determining the position and function of the interim head of the state prosecutor's office and clarifying whether it is a matter of appointments or a possibility of advancement. As I said, some issues have been more or less successfully resolved. The law has been amended by the amendments adopted by the mother's working body in the light of the original proposal, but the objectives that he had previously addressed, which he had been pursuing and which he had also saved, have not changed significantly with these amendments. However, it should be pointed out that the work of state prosecutors cannot take place properly if they do not have insight into the personal data of the persons and that such a change was, of course, necessary. But if that's all, it's another question. Special attention is given to the issue which has been open for a long time, which is whether there are still legitimate reasons for the existence of higher state prosecutors as second-degree authorities within the State Prosecutor's Office system. Therefore, the question arises why the deadline for the existence of these courts is extended for six months, to 1.7.2003, and also this solution, which is proposed here, is not the solution that has been thought out, but - I would say - some other form of the current state, a little more sophisticated, a little more cosmetic. On the other hand, despite certain substantive changes, all these changes are not yet what they would require, even after this change would not rule over subdominance in this area. On the other hand, at the work of the Commission of Inquiry, which identifies the political responsibility of the holders of public functions, the background and causes of the attack on journalist Mir Petk have shown not only that there is a need but also the need for a group of state prosecutors to be given wider powers in special matters. Some of these powers have already been exercised by this group, but in the wake of the change that has taken place, in fact more harm has been done than good. At that time, it was the non-political will of the majority, which, of course, was unacceptable and meant an intervention of policy into the judicial branch. For the previous solution was significantly better, significantly more effective, significantly more flexible. Now we find out what our problems are if we want to clarify a problem, and we say: the prosecution group has not done so, it has not been able to do so. If we had a different marriage, we could do it. And now it turns out that that change was harmful. And there will be more to be done in this area. The Group of the Social Democratic Party has tabled amendments aimed at improving the proposed organisation of the prosecutions, as these proposals have not been adopted, and we believe that the effectiveness of this proposal, which is before us, has been curtailed. And despite the fact that these changes are not yet fully resolved - as we should and as we know that we should be able to save them - we are somehow avoiding them - we will still support these changes in our Group of Members. I'll be right with you. We believe that this is not what we expect, but it is certainly good, and there may be one step towards a final solution. This will support the changes mentioned above. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Podobnik, Slovenian People's Party, has the floor. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u59	Thank you, Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party - allow me to give our position more briefly, because the content of the solutions have already been discussed by my colleagues before me and also by Mr Minister - we therefore assess in our Group that the amendments adopted by the mother's working body to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Prosecutor's Office are rounding up and also improving the texts of the bill. We are convinced that the proposed organisation of the prosecution is, and here it must be stressed that an important change - that is to say, an organisation without a higher prosecutor's office - is appropriate. We are also convinced that the prosecution will be able to carry out its work smoothly, as the law gives both the possibility of setting up external departments and the broad possibilities for the mobility of prosecutors. We are also convinced that these options, if properly exploited, will contribute to the appropriate organisation of work in both local and professional terms. Allow me, however, to touch on another subject that was also exposed at the working body meeting. In fact, in the debate on the amendment, members of the Committee also pointed out the issue of funding regarding the proposed establishment of a professional centre in the Office of the Attorney General. We understand this provision on the financing of the Centre by providing funds under the budget of the Prosecutor's Office. The Prosecutor's Office will therefore have to organise and adapt the work and scope of the centre following the entry into force of the law within its budgetary resources. The first staffing upgrade could be ensured by redistribution of prosecutors and thus no additional costs would arise on the salary line. The remaining costs will have to be adjusted to the resources available, as other budget consumers are also facing such a problem in the implementation of the new programmes. However, in the event of a change in the budget or preparation of a new one, the Prosecutor's Office is expected to propose the opening of a specific budget line for the professional centre and possible additional resources. If the government finds additional funds for the operation of the centre, of course we will not object in principle. However, we are convinced that the establishment of the centre cannot be conditioned by the allocation of additional appropriations. In view of the above, we do not see any problems with the existing text of marriage, which also regulates the issue of a professional centre in the Attorney General's Office. As it is said, the Group of Members will support the bill. On Friday, as proposed, we will also accept it in the final version, and we wish it a successful way, this new law, which is very important, and we thank the Ministry for the professional energy it has put into the preparation of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Marko Diaci, a youth party, has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u61	Nice greetings to all present! In the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, we welcome the purpose of the novel, i.e. to improve the efficiency of the work of prosecutors, and therefore we also support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the State Prosecutor's Office. However, the change in law will only make it possible to work more efficiently and more qualitatively, and this will be the case for real, but it depends primarily on the prosecutors themselves. We are pleased that the dilemma of maintaining a higher prosecution or not triggering too much controversy, as the Attorney General has convinced us that prosecutors can work successfully in one form or another. It is also true that the existence of higher prosecutions without additional powers does not make sense and can therefore, as proposed by the proposer, be abolished. The proposal for a new law has some provisions which we believe are important and more than legitimately included in the law, such as Article 32 of the novel, which speaks of informing the public about the work of prosecutors. We only hope that this will not be a dead provision on paper and that the public will be informed as often as possible about the work of prosecutors under the provisions. This will increase people's confidence in the work of prosecutors and also their confidence in the entire justice system. It does not enjoy a very high level of support, or it is a constant criticism due to huge backlogs between people and the profession, and this problem is also being pointed out abroad. In the Party of Youth Slovenia we will support the amendment of the four groups of Members to Article 34, which specifies the exercise of the right to look into the prosecution file. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The word is Mr. Max Lavrinz, Liberal Democracy. Beg. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u63	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Liberal Democracy, we consider this amendment to the State Prosecutor's Office Act to be the first step on a certain path, which means, in particular, a greater enforcement of the principle of acousticity in criminal proceedings. Those older ones would recall that when we talked about - I would say - greater values of this principle of acoustics, that this principle of acoustics was incorporated literally with the amendment in the third reading when this law was adopted. It means, of course, that there is still a lot to be done on this path. In our opinion, the law is primarily a step towards greater efficiency in the work of state prosecutors, who are also doing a good job now. However, it must be said that, when more difficult forms of crime are encountered, it is only by professionally qualified prosecutors who can handle the procedure. However, since we know that schools that teach personnel for the prosecution organisation, namely, law schools, one and the other, do not have the knowledge that is necessary or teach what is necessary to deal with the most persistent crime, that is the crime of the white collars, this law is, in our opinion, an important step forward in this sense, because they are setting up a professional centre to provide professionally in an organizational sense, so we are not worried about costs, not at all at the beginning. That's the first one. Secondly, it is necessary to know that today we have a labour market and that the top experts hired by lawyers will also have to take care of top experts who will successfully represent the rule of law in the country's defence and by the side of the state prosecutors. This is how we believe that legislation or legislative changes will continue to take place, as, after all, the coalition has agreed, for the first time in public, on some steps in the area of the CAP, the KIC and so on. In short, this observation that politics in some way interferes with professionalism is not justified. The profession offers, the policy decides and the policy of the four coalition parties for the next period is such as to ensure the best possible work of law enforcement authorities, the prosecution organisation and, of course, the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Sašo Pece, Slovenian National Party, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u65	Your Honor! In its publication of the draft law, the rapporteur said that the representative of the applicant had initially said that the aim of the proposed law was to ensure greater efficiency in the work of the state prosecutors. With this we come to a twofold realization: the first one that the government of the Republic of Slovenia has only recently hoped to speak more and more loudly, this means that our judiciary in all its forms, whether in the form of state prosecutors, will be very ineffective. And secondly, something needs to be done in this area. According to our estimates, of course, what the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing for us in this law is not enough, for the first time, where it says that there will be an increase in efficiency in this area by: a set of one - terminology alignment, which is probably nice and right, but by our assessment it will not lead to those effects which we all sincerely hope will happen. Secondly, that the State Prosecutor's Office is defined as part of the judiciary, which is also very nice to hear in the ear, which is, of course, already stated, in what way, by adding it to Article 3, namely: "State Prosecutors are obliged without undue delay to resolve matters assigned to them." This I think is such a profound conclusion that in 2002 someone else hopes to write it, that someone has to do their job and that we or the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will even write it in law and that as one of the measures to increase the efficiency of the judiciary. If we are to get together in this way that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will begin to see in 2002 that areas with backlogs need to be resolved in such a way that there will be no undue delay - yes, dear God, then what have you done? But by now you are then - the legal possibility was that it was delayed work, and then we wonder why there was a judicial backlog. In short, according to our assessment, it is very inappropriate and you acknowledge that the deadline for the effectiveness of the judiciary and thus the effectiveness of the prosecution was inconceivable and that it also had legal silence. You are further talking about the fourth or, in my opinion, the most important package, the abolition of the higher state prosecutions. But you have come to this conclusion from the study, as stated on the 47th page of the Rapporteur, which was published for the first reading and where you refer to the so-called "twining project", "twining project", which we have obtained from Members and Members of Parliament, and which they have probably also sent. That's right. This "twining project" of modernising the judiciary and educating judges shows all the misery of the Slovenian judiciary and subordinate organisations. Although a comparative study has been done with some German countries, of course, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the builder of materials uses this "twining project" only in those cases where it "feeds" to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia when it comes to our assessment of the facts. This "twining project" contains at least four more important points, which would really lead to a more efficient system of matter of today's conversation. And I'll count some. First: territorially, about as large a province as Slovenia, with 20,000 square kilometres in a comparable European region, has the same number of judges, but has three times the population. So, so much for the number of workers in this area. Another time. Efficiency, which is three times higher in this comparable European region than in Slovenia - on solved issues. As far as unfair proceedings are concerned: 8 times the size of a comparable European region. As far as wages are concerned, they are relatively higher in Slovenia than in the comparable European region. And as far as equipment is concerned, Slovenia is inadequately better than in a comparable European region. Why do we not touch on these areas for efficiency or efficiency gains, which would actually involve the area of better performance of our own, in this area of the prosecution? Unfortunately, we cannot believe in the reality of these effects or measures in the Slovenian National Party, as the Government of the Republic of Slovenia offers them to us. Of course, the law of change itself cannot be accepted from a simple point of view, because the sustainability of the prosecution's function is already in the basic law and because it seems unacceptable to us and because it seems to us - especially the sustainability of this mandate - the silence for all, for all inefficiency, even this law will not be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u66	Thank you very much. We have completed the presentations on the views of the Group. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 20.11.2002. I am putting to the debate Article 34 and the amendment of the SLS, LDS, the United List and DeSUS. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I'm closing the debate. There are no other amendments. We've got plenty of time left. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] So I'm closing the debate. The amendment will be voted on in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today at 20.15. This concludes this agenda item and the session. We'll pick it up at 13.25. I thank the Minister and the Secretary of State for his presence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u67	Colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work at the 20th meeting of the National Assembly. We're moving to six. Period of the day - Second defense of the bill on safety on the playground. The draft law was tabled by a group of Members with first-signed Mr Jožef Kavticnik. I give the text to the representative of the proposers of the draft law for further explanation of the proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have before us a proposal for a safety law on ski slopes. We have tabled a proposal for a law on 27.5. and I am glad that there is so much energy and so much will that the law is still under consideration before winter. In particular, because the applicable Ski Safety Act does not take into account the development of new skiing disciplines and new techniques, it also does not take into account the relevant rules and guidelines of the international ski network. The existing law is old and does not take into account security as such; security is one of the most important factors in human life and skiing as well. That is why we have prepared a new text of the law following the news on our ski slopes and the news of the international ski link, and in particular the need to ensure the safety of all participants on our ski slopes. We have followed the law's proposals to ensure security and have included a number of organisations and associations, as well as individuals who have made an important contribution and added to the bill. Let me list the most important ones that have been included with their expertise: the ski association of Slovenia, the cable car association, the transport ministry, the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Justice. The proposal of the Ski Safety Act clearly defines what is allowed and what is not on the ski slopes; what is a ski resort, what is an arranged and what is an irregular ski resort; what is skiing - that skiing is skiing with skis, similar devices and various techniques. It defines the duties of skiers, operators, organisers of various events or of all ski participants; the powers of inspectors, supervisors and ski rescuers, their tasks and duties; what sanctions are imposed on all those who do not comply with the guidelines of this Act. We are not talking about the need for major sanctions, we are talking about supervisors and all those who will take care of security alerting the perpetrators. Since these overseers have public authority, we are confident that the violators will take these instructions into account rather than if the overseers did not have these public powers. The law specifically warns that skiing is a sport with an increased level of risk, so the self-responsibility of a particular skier or skier is one of the important safety activities on our ski slopes. The Ski Safety Act consists of 39 articles, which are allocated to eight chapters First of all, it's a general part where we've described the individual concepts in detail. There's a skiing system coming up. Here we determine exactly how the ski slopes must be arranged, the markings on and on the edge of the ski slopes, that is, the protection of dangerous cities. The conversion of skis, individual operating bans, information for participants, who can carry out organised teaching and the conditions that we have to meet or must meet those who teach. Rescue on the ski slopes, lifeguard's tasks, order on the ski slopes, and surveillance. This chapter discusses the tasks of inspectors, the tasks of supervisors and the conditions for the appointment of supervisors and inspectors. Ski accidents, accident records, accident procedures, record-keeping and so on. Penal provisions, penalties for individual penalties. This is also defined by the new Act on Offences. That is why we also had to harmonise the Ski Safety Act with the Offences Act. Finally, there are transitional and final provisions. The important news in this law is: the ban on skiing, with dogs, even if we have them on the leash. Compulsory safety helmet for children under 12 years of age, prohibition of driving or snow skating under the influence of alcohol or under the influence of unauthorised tranquilizers. I suggest because the law follows that the safety of the law be increased. I am confident that this will help to increase the number of skiers on our ski slopes and, of course, to increase safety on our ski slopes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u69	Thank you, for this introductory explanation. Representatives of the government are not present, nor have they announced the debate, so I give the floor to the representative of the Committee on Internal Policy as the working body of the mother, Mrs Maji Shirca. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u70	Thank you very much. The first-signed Jóžef Kavtičnik gave key reasons for the need for law on the committee in the late afternoon. We've heard some of them before, not all of them. He also pointed out on the committee today that the law is needed because the law in force is outdated, that it does not follow the development of ski techniques, that skiing activities are increasingly spoiled, that skiing is increasingly full of other activities, not just sports activities, but that the law takes the direction of international skiing associations etc., etc. We discussed and voted on all the articles and amendments together, allegedly in accordance with Rules 136 and 56 of the Rules of Procedure. In doing so, at least three articles have been exposed, namely Article 23, which defines more clearly the Minister responsible for granting authorisation to the ski supervisor, Article 12, which more precisely defines when the necessary ski resort or part of the ski resort should be closed, and Article 2, where the amendments tabled do not apply a suitable discipline for the use of both sexes. There was also a debate on public powers in connection with the law on offences. In short, the marriage is here, and winter is here. Of course, the proposaler is happy, or everyone else should look forward to it, because he seems to be smelling of snow, as Mr Kavtičnik said. The only thing missing is the snow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u71	Thank you for this explanation, and here comes the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. First of all, I give the floor to my colleague Ivan Kebrich for the position of the DeSUS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u72	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues! Skiing is a Slovenian national sport. It started on the Blocks in Slovenia and therefore we believe in our group that it is high time to take skiing, because the frequency from day to day or winter to winter, if these numbers are favourable, and given artificial snowing, nature is no longer as powerful, but sport as it is, especially topping, is also recreational, is growing more and more and more massive. Therefore, this law is essential for the introduction of order on ski slopes. Personally, no matter how long I have been a skier and a functionary, I think it is right when I have spoken to the directors or cable operators, as with the officials of the ski clubs and they all support this, and they think it is right that we get this law before the start of this real winter season. In our parliamentary group, we support the proposal that is before us on the parliamentary benches, and we believe that there is no reason to challenge anything, but we will welcome anyone in any condition to improve any item in this law, all in the interest of ensuring that there is order on the ski slopes, in particular that this order ensures certain security. We know that various wildlings on the ski slopes cause, to say the least, disorder and, as a result, significant bodily damage. These injuries are then burdened by the health insurance office, we have work losses, and we believe that it is high time that we adopt the law in the form it is submitted. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u73	Thank you. Following is the position of the New Slovenia Group of Members, colleague Janez Drobnič.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u74	Hello, everyone! Allow me to express the opinion of the New Slovenia Group on the proposal of the Ski Safety Act. Even though I am of the opposition's own kind, I have signed this law. There were several reasons: to regulate this area, to increase the safety of participants, to increase and regulate the responsibility of ski owners and operators, and to set clear management conditions with all that belongs to skiing in Slovenia. These are the key three things to be warned about. Skiing is somehow maintained in Slovenia. It may have been more massive, but now it's becoming more organized, the equipment becomes more demanding, the skiers are more difficult, and more damage can be done. Legislation should therefore also be adapted in line with the development of activities and the development of technology. Unfortunately, the facilities, as well as the ski resorts in Slovenia, which have been relatively well arranged until recently, have deteriorated, but because of the transition problems, due to the problems of ownership, where in particular some people have seen how they will acquire ownership in a cheaper way, rather than allowing the normal investment of foreign investors, even if there is not sufficient capital to keep skiers here in order to stay taxed here in order to have an activity and thus also jobs. Unfortunately, we have experienced some strange fate regarding cableway capacity, and this may have led to the need to think more boldly at the Ministry of Economic Affairs to develop this activity. Here I refer to horizontal aid, state aid which could be more invested in the promotion of activities in foreign markets. This is possible, it is allowed, it is nothing against market competition, and perhaps also education of personnel, standards and other things. In fact, the modern regulation of this area goes in two directions. On the one hand, in general, the law prescribes regulation, on the other hand, that it is left to ski operators, ski owners and operators to organise, within their respective competences and responsibilities, in such a way that skiing is safe, well, and that is an opportunity for us to see it also in European countries. However, as a result of some of the most serious disasters, it has begun to be thought that regulation at national levels is also making more clear and perhaps clearer rules in relation to the European Union, which we are approaching and we want to enter. In Novi Slovenija, we are essentially committed to this initiative. Of course, we disagree with all the provisions. There have been a lot of initiatives with amendments during the procedure, the first, indicating that the text requires corrections and improvements. Some of the provisions concerning the obligations of skiers may be out of order. When we talked to our friends about these provisions, we were reluctant to think that we should actually introduce skiers who ski in these areas, skiing exams, according to all the obligations and knowledge and behaviour of the rules. I don't think there's much less of them, at least if we look at that list like road traffic regulations. That can be a joke, but we'll have to think about how to approach it. Whether the organiser and ski operator is obliged to provide this through human education, through training, through information. After all, in Slovenia we want to have an activity that will bind and attract many of our citizens to this activity, so that tourism activities will take place while skiing will also be safe and healthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u75	Thank you. The next presentation is given by the United List and Bojan Kontič, who will present this presentation. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u76	Colleagues and colleagues! The draft law, first signed by members of the coalition parties and later joined by members of the opposition parties, is prepared in the light of the content of the legislative and legal comments of the National Assembly, the non-controversy of the competent ministries and the adopted amendments on the home labour body. In the Group of Members of the United Nations Charter of Social Democrats, although they do not have a specific ski safety law in European countries, we assess that legislation is necessary and will also be supported by this bill. The number of skiers that differ greatly according to their skills has increased in recent years. This, of course, affects the increased likelihood of accidents occurring in snow skating and thus the safety of skis. The regulated and safe ski resort is one of the conditions for a good visit and thus the further development of winter tourism in our country. Skiing is due to the naturalities and multitudes of Slovenia's national sport, which no longer means just the use of skiing, but is increasingly being used by ski-like sports props. This means, of course, that the law in force is outdated and that a way of ensuring security is needed to adapt to the new situation. In doing so, there is important information about the number of accidents that will occur on our ski slopes. In the United List of Social Democrats, we agree with the proposalers' intention to ensure that the ski operator or the organiser of the competition is primarily responsible for the order and safety of the ski slopes. Of course, it is also necessary to provide assistance to the police in serious violations and accidents. It is also important that the law introduces the principle of self-responsibility of a skier for skiing and conditions for organised skiing instruction. The purpose of the law is to ensure that both the ski operator and their user are interested in the safety of the ski area and to ensure that the conditions on the ski slopes are improved. Of course, it will also contribute to the quality of the controls and penalties provided for offenders. The complementary proposal of the Ski Safety Act also eliminates confusion and misunderstandings about the granting of specific powers. In a desire to regulate skis, greater safety and consequently less accidents, Members and Members of the United List of Social Democrats will support the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u77	Thank you for that attitude. Following is the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. Franz Sušnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u78	Thank you very much. In the Socialist Party's parliamentary group, we will support the proposal for a law on ski safety. I'm also one of the co-signers of the marriage proposal. The fact that in Slovenia skis more than 400,000 skiers, that skiing is an important part of the winter ski offer in Slovenia, that skiing is an important part of complementary activities in our Alpine world, that we have fifty skis on more than 1,500 hectares, over 800 km of track, a broken system of cableways that can transport more than 150,000 people per hour, and in particular the already fatalities on the ski slopes and over thousands of accidents accompanying this activity, shows that it is necessary to properly regulate the area of safety on skis. That is why we have also supported and supported the adoption of this modern law. We are pleased that the law is the fruit of the cooperation of all those who ski in the Republic of Slovenia. We are also pleased to see him receiving such uniform support within the Committee and in the very stage of its adoption. We support the basic objective of the law, which is to create more order and more safety on skis and consequently reduce safety risks, which will certainly result in less damage to skiers. We welcome the strict and detailed definition of the duties of skiers, especially skiers themselves, then ski operators, event organizers, ski instructors. We welcome the basic purpose of the law that requirements and powers be placed more strictly on the part of supervisors and inspectors, as well as the stricter requirements to be met by ski resorts, in particular in terms of more appropriate labelling and in terms of the insurance of dangerous or risk-taking places on ski slopes. That would be about everything I wanted to say on behalf of the Group of Members. We will support this law and I am sure it will bring more order and safety on the ski slopes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u79	Thank you, too, for this presentation. And it is the turn of the Slovenian People's Party's Group and colleague Janez Podobnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u80	Thank you for your word. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we congratulate the group of colleagues and the first-signed Jožet Kavticnik for a good legal text. We will support him in the belief that this will make skiing safe and enjoyable recreation. This law, and on the basis of it, will be fully replaced by an outdated but still valid law from the year 1977 onwards. As we understand from the legal title itself, the focus of the bill is primarily on security. With the emergence of new ways and different techniques of snow skating, new tools and equipment, rapid and significant increase in the number of skiers, a consequent increase in the number of injuries and legal irregularities in the resolution of complex damage events on ski slopes and also in compensation claims, the need for a more modern and more precise law emerged within ten years of the adoption of the Law on Ski Skiing, with a focus on the safety and co-responsibility of the skier to disregard the rules of good and prudent behaviour on snow. In the parliamentary group, we estimate that the legislative proposal has complied with these requirements. He created mechanisms that would provide security on the one hand and, on the other hand, sanction irresponsible use and behaviour on the ski slope. The ski operator must ensure safe skiing, of course, provided that the skiers themselves respect the rules of safe skiing and behave accordingly in the snow. The real violation of ski rules was, unfortunately, mainly the cause of many minor and serious injuries on ski slopes in Slovenia. These are about a thousand a year. The inadequacy and stiffness of the old law were also noted by the case law, which has had major difficulties in interpreting the concepts and terms we encounter in the use of skis. It is important that the marriage proposal defined skiing and preparations for snow skating, skiing and its borders, the marking of these borders. He also separated the organized ski space from the unorganized. He defined the conditions for the operation of the ski resort and the like. Above all, it is article 24 of the Law, which gives a taxive description of what a skier must respect and what he should not do. As has already been said, the law is not law unless sanctions are provided for offenders. That's just the way it is when an area is governed by law. For for this area, which is bound by cables and tractors, the old law on safety on cables and tractors is still in force. And we believe that this law too will very soon need to be updated by Comrade Kavtičnik, prepare for you to enter into law if the government does not take courage. Under-laws issued under this Act will, however, have to resolve the safety of the tow track, the provision of cableways on ski slopes and the security of entry and exit of cableways. And one more thing. The existing legislation, proposed legislation that follows the rules of the FIS throughout the world, is also in line with the country of legislation of the Alps and Scandinavian countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u81	Thank you. The Youth Party's parliamentary group is next. Marko Diaci, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u82	Thank you for your word. I'll be brief. The Law on Ski Safety, which is before us, in the Parliamentary Group of the Young Slovenia Party, is assessed as a response to the development of skiing and as a basis for improving the quality of winter sports tourism, which has undoubtedly not yet been sufficiently exploited in our country, and we have therefore gladly joined as co-proposers on the basis of Mr Kavtičnik's initiative. The current Ski Safety Act is, of course, obsolete because it has been prepared in different circumstances and in a different socio-economic system. Skiing is not only a non-hazardous sport that offers, at normal risk, the enjoyment of entertainment, relaxation, but has become a real economic sector when new techniques and new equipment are introduced and the number of skiers has increased. This also requires a modern regulation of the rules and for safety does not tolerate irresponsible behaviour, both by ski operators and by skiers themselves. This is also evidence of injuries in Slovenian ski resorts, including fatal accidents, serious and minor injuries and permanent disabilities. All of this proves that the ski resort is, of course, “transportable surface”, and as such also requires order and order on this surface. In our view, the law follows the objective of laying down basic rules for the use of skis defines the conditions that must be met by ski areas so as to ensure the safety of skiers. Of course, such good rules do not rule out the possibility of injury and accidents if there is no responsibility of a skier to behave and act on the ski slope. Article 24 therefore, in our view, adequately defines the duties of skiers and other persons. In the interest of greater safety on ski slopes, after the development of winter sports tourism in Slovenia and after the good ski season, we will also support the law with all good comments.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u83	Thank you very much, Marco Diaci. I give the floor to representatives of the LDS Group, Dusan Vukko. In the meantime, they agreed with the applicant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u84	Thank you, Vice President. Dear colleagues, dear colleagues! Why do we support the ski safety law in LDS? For the first time, because the law in force is outdated, it does not take into account the development and emergence of new techniques and does not comply with all the rules of the International Ski Association. Secondly, because the law strengthens the responsibility for the safety of all those who appear on the ski slope, both operators and ski users. Thirdly, since our skis will be better marked, decorated and safer after the adoption of this law. Fourthly, because the law gives greater powers to those responsible for maintaining the order on the ski slope. Fifthly, because the law requires both skiers and other users more seriousness, patience and especially sobriety. And last but not least, because he's going to give the law and give every opportunity for greater safety on our ski slopes.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u85	Thank you. In addition, the Slovenian National Party's Group of Members. Comrade Sasha Peca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u86	Your Honor! One more time. I do not want the Group of Members to repeat ourselves too much about the quality and content of this law, but it is also our assessment that there is a huge contribution to safety on the ski slope. Especially when we see that the basic law in this area is very old. According to my data, he was supposed to be about 35 years old. This historical view, however, means that during this period many things have changed, especially in terms of the quality of the techniques and, of course, everything else on the ski slope. We say, therefore, that the law is good in its five novelties or in its five areas, as far as it is concerned, in the field of precision of the duties of skiers on the one hand, on the other, ski operators on the other, and various organisers or organisers of various events on the other. We also welcome the stricter requirements for supervisors and inspectors, who, following the amendment of the law, are also subject to new powers - tasks and solutions only on the ski slope. We also make a positive assessment of the stricter requirements for the operation of skis, especially for the safety and quality of skis and this sport, because only this can lead to an even greater mass of this sport, which one of my speakers correctly found that skiing is becoming a Slovenian national sport. I think this started some 15 years ago and we need to promote this kind of sporting activity in our country. We also agree on the powers of the police regarding the suspicion of skiing under the influence of alcohol and other psychoactive substances, which I think has become a “multiplicity” in ski resorts over the past few years. As far as criminal policy or punishment is concerned, I must attach another point to the speaker or representative of the Slovenian People's Party, but I would like to recall one more point, given that this law is envisaged for the third hearing, on Friday 29.11, and for reasons of business possibility, the Slovenian National Party would also request the Infrastructure, Environment and Space Committee to examine the substance of the law. I am sure that this content has affected the safety of active participants in this sport, so we have ensured their safety. I fear, however, that it would make sense for a chapter or a decision along with the law to be adopted in the field of environmental protection. I am convinced that the mass of this sport will also have a number of illegal interventions into nature and thus long-term consequences. In my opinion, therefore, it would make sense that a decision in this area, the protection of the environment, as we know, is taking place in nature, would make sense to adopt a decision in terms of environmental protection in this committee as well as in this national assembly, where this decision would accompany the substance of this law. We will support the law itself, and indeed, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, we hope that the committee will meet before Friday and give a position or a decision on protection and an unacceptable intervention into space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u87	Thank you also for this position.We are done with this presentation of the views of the parliamentary groups. No amendments have been tabled to the amended proposal and the discussion on the articles is not possible and I conclude it. In accordance with Rule 139 of the Rules of Procedure, the third reading of the bill will be carried out on Friday, 29.11.2002. I expect that the proposal submitted by my colleague, Saš Pečet, will be examined by this deadline. This concludes this agenda item. We've got ten minutes left, so I'm taking a break. At 2.10 p.m. we'll continue at 7. POINT OF THE DAYS, PROPOSALS OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE CONSUMER PROTECTION LAW. Thank you for your cooperation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u88	We are continuing with the second reading of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the consumer protection law. I welcome Mrs Vesno Berk, V.D. Director of the Consumer Protection Office and Mr Janez Šinkovec, Secretary-General of the Ministry of Economy. The draft law was submitted for consideration by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the law. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u89	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The need to amend the existing consumer protection law adopted in 1998 has been demonstrated by practice, while at the same time it is necessary to harmonise the law with European Community law, to which the Republic of Slovenia has committed itself to the law on the ratification of the European Association Agreement and to the protocol by which it amends, by aligning the area of consumer protection with Community law and by implementing legislation by the end of 2002. The amendments and amendments to the law have thus been made with a view to improving the legal protection of consumers and the implementation of European legislation. To the extent required, we have summarized the content of the following directives in the material provisions of the law: unfair contractual conditions of distance sales, contracts concluded outside business premises, lawsuits for abandoning actions in the field of consumer protection, misleading and comparative advertising, time purchase of real estate, liability for counterfeit products, sale of consumer goods and guarantees, and electronic commerce. Amendments to the substantive provisions are, of course, also the result of changes in criminal provisions. We expect that the amendment will help to control the implementation of the law more effectively, so that the legal provisions will not only remain a dead letter on paper. Throughout the preparation and drafting of amendments and additions, we have sought dialogue with all stakeholders. In particular, we agreed and coordinated with non-governmental consumer organisations, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Slovenian Advertising Chamber, the Market Inspectorates, and took into account the comments and opinions of the Legislative Legal Service of the National Assembly. After having been discussed on the Committee on the Economy, he instructed the proposer to further examine some issues and propose possible more appropriate solutions. The applicant, of course, followed and recast the original proposed solutions to Article 5, with regard to liability for the product, to Article 17, in order to determine the start of the period within which the manufacturer is obliged to ensure maintenance, spare parts and fittings, then to Article 63, in order to delete the sanction already prescribed by the postal service law and to Article 14, in order to transform the definition of the goods for which the compulsory guarantee is made. Article 66a, which provides for a six-month period for the issue of a sub-law, and Article 66b, shall be proposed in conjunction with that provision, in order to amend the reference to the number of the article in which the provision on a sub-legislative act is made. In accordance with the guidance of the Economic Committee, qualified applicants have summarized the solutions in the amendments supported by the Government. Members and Members are therefore asked to be supported in the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u90	Thank you for the introductory explanation. Following is the position of the Committee on the Economy. I ask the Vice-President, Mr Kavčič, to present the Committee's position or the Committee's report. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u91	Your Honor! At its 32nd meeting, on 5.11.2002, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft law amending and supplementing the law on consumer protection submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to the national assembly for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. The Committee’s hearing was held in the presence of a significant number of representatives of the public concerned. The representatives of the market inspectorate, the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, the Slovenian Association of Consumers, the Association of Consumer Associations of Slovenia and the Slovenian Advertising Chamber were present. The Committee has given a lot of attention to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which has made a number of concrete comments to individual articles. These comments have been taken into account in the amendments of the LDS MPs, the Consolidated List of Social Democrats, SLS and DeSUS. The Committee later adopted this amendment in the context of the debate and the vote on the individual articles of the bill. The discussion focused, inter alia, on the following fundamental issues of this law: the issue of the power of the government to accept changing tolar amounts, then on the issue of damage to the other, which was one of the points agreed upon by the Government to re-examine and give an opinion through qualified applicants; then on the issue of the burden of proof, the issue of the legal basis for setting up or for the existence of an advertising chamber, then on the provision of a guarantee for smooth functioning. A dilemma was also raised as to whether time should be taken for the basis after the expiry of the warranty period or after the cessation of the production of the goods on sale. These are just some of the issues the Committee has devoted to addressing most of the concerns. After a detailed discussion, the Committee adopted a series of amendments and, in accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, also voted on the individual articles of the bill and adopted all the articles. On the basis of the first paragraph of Article 133, a proposal for a law is prepared and supplemented in the light of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the Committee. The amended bill, which forms an integral part of this report, also includes all the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u92	Thank you, Vice President Blaža Kavčič. We are moving on to the views of the parliamentary groups. I give up the debate myself because I cannot give my opinion in this role. I therefore give my word to the next one, for the position of New Slovenia, Dr. Andre Bajuk. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u93	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The key task of the Slovenian country is to bring its existing legislation closer to the legal order of the European Union. In the economic field, the issue of consumer protection is one of the most important foundations for the performance of the market economy. It is therefore certainly self-evident that this particular area is among those listed among the most important and sensitive in Article 71 of the Agreement. In the pre-accession strategy, Slovenia has accepted a commitment to align the area of consumer protection with Community law and to start implementing legislation by the end of 2002. The existing Consumer Protection Act, adopted in 1998, has legislated certain essential provisions of the European Community Directives. Nevertheless, some institutions, as the government itself acknowledges in its amendment proposal, have remained uncoordinated. At its regular meeting in February 2002, the National Assembly considered a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Consumer Protection Act and concluded that the proposal for a law was a suitable basis for further consideration. The Government did not in due time prepare a proposal for a second reading law on the basis of the comments and views of the National Assembly prior to the entry into force of the new Rules of Procedure. That is why we have a replacement proposal today and we are also considering it under a special procedure. The New Slovenia Group did not oppose this and essentially supported such an approach. Although we note that since February the government has had sufficient time to formulate and present this proposal to the National Assembly before the new Rules of Procedure have been put in place. This would address the need for a specific procedure. New Slovenia will support this law, although we are well aware that consumer protection is one of the most dynamic areas of this legislation, economic legislation requiring constant attention and further coordination. Entry into the common market clearly requires harmonised legislation that will ensure equal opportunities and conditions for all, as it is the competitiveness of all businesses in this new common market and, above all, of our businesses. In particular, this is clear in certain areas, such as the harmonisation of conditions for advertising in the common market, clearer rules on so-called misleading advertising, the application of certain conditions for comparative advertising, such as in the interests of both consumers and competitors and ultimately the general public. It is also important to coordinate in the field of combating unfair competition, the responsibility of the manufacturer for the damage caused and the error of his product. We regret that the amendment offered by Nova Slovenije was not adopted in the working body, in Article 4, in order to remove any lower limit for the recovery of damage when it comes to it. We proposed an amendment to completely erase this. This was based on the fact that the present, as adopted, is contrary to Article 155 of the Bond Code, which does not confer any value on the recovery of damages. However, this proposal was not adopted. Nevertheless, the Members of New Slovenia will fully support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u94	Thank you, Dr. Bayuk. Following is the United List of Social Democrats. The position will be given by Mrs Silva Črnugelj. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u95	Dearly beloved colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the government and all others present! Today I have this pleasant duty to present the opinion of the United Nations Group on the amendments and additions to the second reading consumer protection law. Consumer rights and regulations are certainly among those that affect all the people of Slovenia and are changing rapidly, so they need to be closely monitored and all the necessary changes identified. The area of consumer protection in Slovenia is legally well regulated and the institutional area is formally covered. The United List of Social Democrats has always advocated maintaining or increasing the level of consumer protection rights achieved, as well as maintaining and increasing the quality of life standards, which are certainly affected by the changes and additions to the consumer protection law that we are considering today. We have found that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia have taken into account the opinion of the interested public, the market inspectorate, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Association of Consumers of Slovenia, the Association of Consumer Associations of Slovenia and the Chamber of Advertising of Slovenia. Similarly, the opinions of the Legislative and Legal Service and the Commissions of the State Economic Council were taken into account. The UK Group supports the compromise proposal with regard to Article 4, which provides that the producer of the product is obliged to repay the damage on the other hand intended for personal use only if it exceeds the value of 10,000 tolars, since they considered that the proposal envisaged by the Government is highly overestimated by the fact that we have quite a number of products used in the daily use in this price class. With regard to Article 5, the Joint List Group supports such a solution, which provides that there is an evidentiary burden on the manufacturer and that the damage is considered to result from the error of the matter, unless the manufacturer proves otherwise. The consumer cannot, as an injured person, prove mistakes and damage arising from the matter, since the law under consideration is a consumer protection law and must protect its rights and not the rights of the manufacturer. It is much easier for the manufacturer to prove the existence of an error because he has all the necessary technical documentation that is not available to the consumer. In this law, too, we are faced with the issue of assembly, namely an advertising chamber for which the deletion of Article 14 of the current law removes one legal basis for the establishment of an existing one. However, this is not an obstacle to the interesting integration of all advertisers, whether they are legal or natural persons. However, according to the Government, this will also give other entities the opportunity to merge. Amendments and additions to this Act definitively resolve certain non-compliance with local-level acts, to which consumers have been alerted for many years. In particular, the price of water must be calculated by the actual supply shown on its counter or meter, the water meter, which was largely not implemented or feasible in practice. Why? The provision of drinking water was within the competence of the local community and is therefore fully entrusted to local communities with the responsibility to carry out the public economic service. Conditions on the way in which drinking water is supplied, the withdrawal of drinking water, the technical conditions connected to the network, the technical implementation of the reception site, the availability of water meters, the conditions for the construction of the water meters, the location of the site criteria and other technical conditions, and the rest determined by the acts at local level. However, the amendment to Article 40 will allow consumers to install appropriate measuring devices at their costs, if of course this is technically possible, because the technical options differ from the facility to the facility. This will enable consumers to pay for energy and water on the basis of actual consumption and will also encourage rational use of these resources, in particular water. The Joint List Group also expects much from the sub-legislative acts, in particular those relating to the second paragraph of Article 15 and examines the more detailed definition and arrangements of the guarantee obligation. The Group believes that this issue needs to be made very clear [[End warning sign]] and clearly process and define. Unfortunately, the Members of the Joint List Group note that the law itself will not resolve the comprehensive area of consumer protection, in particular the issue of under- and inefficiently spent budgetary resources for consumer protection, as a result of the inadequate way in which consumer protection programmes are co-financed, in particular in the public funding segment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u96	Thank you. It's just a cruel thing to do, and please hold on to it. I give the floor to Branko Kelemini for the position of the Socialist Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u97	Thank you so much for saying that again. Your Honor! The Socialist Party's parliamentary group will not oppose the adoption of amendments and the completion of the consumer protection law. We believe that most of the amendments to the consumer protection law have somehow improved the situation of consumers. Of course, we are aware that the process of monitoring consumer protection is a dynamic process and that multiple coordination and changes are needed in order to adapt to all the new, modern knowledge that comes mainly from practice and that we are also following the new technical solutions that are emerging in this area. Although it is not the most appropriate, but I would point out that the government may still not yet know the new rules of procedure best or even the National Assembly many times is in breach of the rules of procedure, especially working bodies, and materials that may not even be suitable for further consideration, which has been highlighted many times, we are still putting the whole text into consideration and then, in fact, we are making a complete change in the text with amendments submitted primarily by the government coalition. I think that this is unacceptable and that such legislative proposals should be returned to the government for full harmonisation and preparation of a better text. I would not discuss the content of the law itself, as I have said, our parliamentary group will also support certain amendments, and it will not oppose the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u98	Thank you for that attitude, too. I announce the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group and colleague Stanislav Brenčič. He's quitting. I therefore give the floor to Igor Štemberger for the position of the Party of Young Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u99	Thank you for your word. In addition to adapting the law to the directives of the European Union, these changes also bring certain innovations in the field of electronic commerce, specific sales contracts and additional consumer protection, which is also urgently needed after Slovenia's inclusion in the European Union's enlargement of the market, globalisation and new ways of purchasing goods and services. Therefore, we support the amendments to Article 7 of the Law imposing on the manufacturer proof of the suitability of the product in the event that the purchased product has a certain serious error. We need to be aware that the seller-buyer ratio is the last one in a subordinate position. In the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we also agree with the deletion of Article 12 which retains Article 14 of the Law and is the legal basis for the existence of the Slovenian Advertising Chamber. The Slovenian Advertising Chamber brings together all the most important advertisers, advertising agencies and the media. The Slovenian Advertising Chamber adopted the Slovenian Advertising Code, which complements existing legal acts regulating advertising activities. By means of the Code, the uniform criteria for the work of all individuals and organisations involved in the advertising process in the territory of our country and with them the advertising activity is equipped with a self-regulatory mechanism. Slovenia is included in the Consumer Protection Act in a single article by law in the field of misleading and unworthy advertising. The proposal for amendments that we have before us today, however, extends this article and regulates matter in greater detail, but still too wide. However, according to the advertising code, the factors of permissive advertising, honesty and reality of advertising, advertising for children and adolescents, decent advertising and the like are described in detail. The Code obliges all natural and legal persons involved in the advertising process in Slovenia, both advertisers, advertising agencies and the media. However, the procedure for assessing the conformity of advertisements with the Code before an advertising hearing may be initiated by anyone, both legal and natural persons. The appeal procedure itself at the advertising hearing is simple, fast and free of charge, which is particularly important for the consumer. The advertising court shall take a judgment within 30 days of receipt of the complaint. In the event that they find the advertisement controversial, the advertiser shall be subject to immediate sanctions: a request for correction or withdrawal of the contested advertisement, an initiative to the market inspector or other public authorities for appropriate action, an initiative to initiate a criminal procedure and so on. All members of the Slovenian Advertising Chamber are committed to respect the rulings of this Chamber. Of course, the law should provide for the possibility that persons having a legal interest in prohibiting misleading or regulating comparative advertising have the opportunity to initiate legal proceedings. The voluntary self-regulation system serves both the advertising industry and consumers. In most countries with a highly developed advertising profession, it has come to the conclusion that only legal provisions cannot successfully regulate relations in the advertising triangle of an advertising agency-media. In particular, only the legal provisions cannot provide completely fair, decent and genuine advertising, if they are still so detailed, and thus ensure consumer protection. Advertising is an activity where it is necessary to follow development guidelines from day to day. However, the Code can change and adapt to new developments as soon as possible, as quickly as we can change legislation. As stated in the Parliamentary Group of the Party of Young Slovenia, we believe that the existing Article 14 of the Consumer Protection Act is necessary because the legal basis for the existence of a Chamber as a legal person is essential. The Committee on the Economy also considered that the Article does not limit the right of other entities to unite and act in this area. We also support amendments to the law that lay down consumer rights in online transactions, e-mails and other newer means of communication. The importance of consumer protection has also been demonstrated in recent cases of controversial foods. In today's world, when the consumer is allowed to fight large producers of goods and services after they have done so, laws that protect his rights, health and life are all the more important, so we will of course support the proposal of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u100	Thank you very much for this position. And the position of the LDS Group of Members. Comrade Blaž Kavčič will present this position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u101	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we see the aim of this law mainly in adapting consumer protection arrangements to the directives of the European Union. At the same time, in the process of dealing with specific definitions, we had consumer protection before our eyes on the one hand and, on the other hand, making it possible for companies to operate competitively. The level of consumer protection achieved in Slovenia is already quite high. This fact, this assessment called for a careful relationship in the transposition of the sectoral directives into the Slovenian economic area. However, some of the amendments and additions to this Act represent, according to their content, mainly the elimination of identified errors and shortcomings that have been demonstrated in the actual application of consumer legislation in the past or to this point, i.e. until the time of drafting of this bill. In doing so, they could particularly highlight the rules on advertising, real errors, specific sales contracts, electronic commerce and effective legal protection. We estimate that the proposal for this law is, of course, only at that stage when we add amendments to it, which will also be the subject of a decision at this national assembly, so that we together meet the requirement of the Association Agreement on the one hand, and, on the other hand, we will allow consumers to maintain their rights during the economic development period so as not to exploit their potential less knowledge of the problem or the lack of experience, while allowing this law to develop the economy and integrate the Slovenian market into the single European market. I think it is good that the government has listened to the positions of the parent working body, so in the LDS Group, we will support the bill along with the amendments of the four coalition groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u102	Thank you. These were the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 20.11.2002. In doing so, I would only point out that the time announced for the debate of the LDS is 5 minutes, SDS 5 minutes, SLS 3 minutes, Nova Slovenija 10 minutes and the government 10 minutes. He was planning a text, so he gave up. We're moving on to Article 5. I am putting to the debate Article 5 and the amendment of the LDS Parliamentary Club, the Joint List Group, SLS and DeSUS. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 5 and the amendment to this Article. I am putting to the debate Article 14 and the amendment of the same groups of Members to Article 14. Who wants a word? I don't see a desire to discuss it, so I'm closing it. I shall put to the debate Article 17 and the amendment of the said parliamentary groups to Article 17. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate by Article 17. I am putting to the debate Article 63 and the amendment of the parliamentary groups of coalition parties, if I may say so, to Article 63. Who wants a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 63. I am putting to the debate a new 66. a/ article of LDS, the United List, SLS and DesUS. Anybody want a word? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on a new Article 66a. I am putting to the debate a new 66.b/ Article of the same parliamentary groups. Who wants a word, please? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on articles and amendments. In accordance with the timing of the meeting, we will vote on these amendments tonight at 8 p.m. and 15 minutes. I hereby terminate this agenda item and continue the meeting at 3 p.m. 40 minutes with agenda item 8. Thank you for your cooperation, and I'm taking a break.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u103	Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government. We continue the session and move on to 8. On the other hand, this is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. Government representatives are here, but they have not signed up for the debate. We will go to the examination of the report of the parent working body, this is the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances. I ask the President of this Commission, Dr Andre Bajuk, to present the report of the Commission. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Hello, everyone. The initiative to amend the law on the revision of public procurement procedures, which is before the National Assembly today, is the principles of the Commission for Budgetary Control and other public finances, based on the findings of the report on the work of the State Audit Commission for 2000. It has been found that the provisions so far do not provide sufficient protection for procurement procedures. This initiative to amend the law on the revision of public procurement procedures was proposed by the Commission to the National Assembly, together with the initiative to consider at the same time the amendment of the law on public procurement, since both are strongly linked and the modification of one requires change or coordination with the other. At its 9th regular meeting, held on 25 October 2001, this national assembly adopted these decisions. We warn that the government has not yet drawn up a law on public procurement, and this work is inevitably ahead of us. Since no decision has been taken on the Committee on Budgetary Control and other public finances to deal with this law in accordance with the normal procedure, the Commission has only adopted a decision for a public presentation of the opinions held on 17 June 2002. The debate contained five questions answered by participants in this public debate. First time. The constitutional position of the State Audit Commission for the revision of public procurement procedures, taking into account our legal order and the directive of the European Union. Another time. Under what procedure should the State Audit Commission decide, in a fair or administrative way, on which matters it decides, or on the dissipation of the complainant or also on the infringement of other provisions of public procurement procedures which the complainant does not know or has not included in the dispossess? Third time. Should the State Audit Commission ensure only the legal protection of tenderers or also protect public interest and monitor the full legality of the contested procurement procedure? Fourth time. Should the Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia obtain active legitimacy for public procurement as a body of the executive branch of the authority to submit audit requests, or should it have an audit to submit applications in addition to the Office of any other authority, such as the State Attorney's Office or the Office of Competition Protection or the like? And a fifth. The role of the Court of Auditors of the Republic of Slovenia in the control of public procurement in terms of legality, economy, efficiency and efficiency of public spending. The minutes of this public debate were forwarded to the Government, which has drawn up certain amendments. The draft law was re-examined at a meeting of the Committee on Budgetary Control and Other Public Finance at its 20th regular meeting, on 14 November of this year. The proposal, which is now before the National Assembly, was fully adopted. There are three open issues on which we have aligned ourselves with the Law Service, namely the amendment to Article 1 and the amendment to Articles 7 and 8. I would just like to point out that, because of the time constraints, these amendments have been tabled as amendments to the New Slovenia Group of Members, although they represent, in my opinion, a coordinated opinion of the members of the Commission. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u105	Thank you, too, for the report. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which we will conduct on the basis of the review of the amendments of 25.11.2002. Let me remind you of the scheduled time, maximum time of discussion: LDS 15 minutes, SDS 10 minutes, combined list 5 minutes, SLS 3 minutes, Nova Slovenija 25 minutes, DeSUS 5 minutes and SNS 10 minutes. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group of Members to Article 1. The word wants Dr. Bayuk. Please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is one of the three amendments I mentioned in my presentation as President of the Commission. In fact, it has been prepared in the Law Service and it is necessary to include in Article 1 the fact that, after any changes to the law currently under consideration, it is imperative to include the protection of the rights of tenderers and public interest. This addition, which is also a matter of public interest, is crucial because all the other amendments to this law and the proposal that we have before us today demand that this also be mentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u107	Thank you. Anyone else want a word? There is still Article 1 and the amendment in the debate. Mr. Wolf, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u108	Thank you for your word, chairman. Given the position of the legislative and legal service and the review of the amendments tabled by Nova Slovenija, it can be said that the amendments in the part where they complement the existing text of both Articles 7 and 8 as well as Article 1 are entirely correct and will also be supported in the LDS Group. Of course, I would also like to take this opportunity to ask the government what it thinks about the comment on Article 5 of the Legislative and Legal Service, because of the fact that the legislative and legal service is actively opposed, that is to say the legitimacy for the submission of an application, the Public Procurement Office and the Office for the Protection of Competition. So, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u109	We'll be at the end when there's still time to discuss. You did not announce the debate, but I do not believe that the time of the debate will be used 100%, so I will give you my word in the end. Anyone else want a debate on Article 1? Dr. Bayuk.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u110	If you'll excuse me, Mr President, I might like to answer my colleague Wolf's question, as far as Article 5 is concerned. Can I? Article 5(1) of Regulation (EC) Above all, it is a matter of whether the whole discussion was whether only one body in the executive branch should play an active role, namely the Public Procurement Office, or whether it should be a matter of legal protection and of the fact that the whole of the law is also of public interest, that this should also be extended and expanded so that the public defence and the competition protection office can also act in this regard. The Commission has decided to do so. This is actually why this proposal was also adopted by the Commission. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u111	No one wants to discuss Article 1 any more, so I conclude the debate by 1. A member. We turn to Article 7 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 7. Who wants to discuss Article 7 and the amendment? [[Nobody.]] I conclude the debate on Article 7 and put Article 8 and the amendment of the New Slovenia Group to Article 8. Who wants a word? [[No one, either.]] I therefore also conclude this debate on Article 8. I must explain that Article 5 is in fact no longer in the debate that it is closed. Nevertheless, I would like to give the floor to the representative of the government, Mr Igor Šoltes, to the Director of the Public Procurement Office, to explain this.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u112	Mr President, thank you for the floor. As has already been said, the Government's proposal, and also coordinated afterwards in the Commission itself, is to grant active legitimacy to the Public Procurement Office, as well as to the Social Defence Office and the Competition Office in particular in terms of the protection of public interest, which was not adequately protected by the current law. As you know, the Law on the Revision of Public Procurement Procedures explicitly stated that legal protection is intended solely and solely for tenderers, but not, if I say, for the public interest, and practice has also shown the need to protect public interest, that is, if we say, a substantive justification for why we support such a proposal. It is said that the government is also proposing it. Part two, I will say that there may be formal reservations by the secretariat for legislation, but in our view it is not entirely justified because the law can give specific powers, even though the authority itself does not have those powers. The Government therefore considers that the text under discussion is appropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u113	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on this item on the agenda. We'll talk about the amendments. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would just like a general comment, because I think it is absolutely necessary, on behalf of the New Slovenia Group and not as President of the Commission. The fact is that one of the key issues of this law, according to our assessment, has not been resolved. This is a matter of judicial protection, which has been identified as one of the open issues of coordination with European legislation. The fact is, when we finally decided to hold on to justice, we have not yet found, nor the government, nor ourselves, any real answer to how this matter can be resolved. If we went along the path of administrative procedure, then in some sense it would be self-evident and even possible. Now it's not. We hope that when the government presents it, as we have been promised many times, we will soon get a change to the law on public procurement in order to resolve this issue within the framework of that law. We estimate that we will still have to return to this law on the issue of judicial protection. In particular, because for the time being, as is now envisaged, someone who complains will have no other option than to initiate the compensation procedure rather than to repeal the decision of the State Audit Commission. In a fair process, this is a very complicated matter from a legal point of view. The solution is not self-evident. However, we expect that it may be possible to focus on this issue again when we consider the law on public procurement and it may be possible to address this problem. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u115	Thank you very much, Dr. Bayuk. This concludes the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the meeting's timetable at 8.15 p.m. I'm breaking this agenda. Now I'd like to ask for some attention. At 16.55 we would continue with the 9th item of the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on graduation. In the meantime, a procedural proposal has been tabled for a Member of the Italian Nationality, Mr Battelli, to seek the consent or consideration of this proposal by the Member Group of the Nationality Community and therefore this proposal for a law does not have the procedural possibility of going to debate. This Decision will be voted on, including a vote on the other items of the agenda at 20.15 a.m. Therefore, we will now continue the meeting not at 16 55 minutes as scheduled, but at 10 p.m. on the agenda at 6 p.m. and 55 p.m. I'm adjourning the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u116	Dear Members, honourable Members, we continue to work. Between us, I warmly welcome the representative and the representative of the government. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, it's a second-hand proposal for a law restricting the consumption of alcohol. The draft law was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Minister, Dr. Dusan Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u117	Honourable Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament. In your second reading, there is a law that has experienced a number of treatments this year. Its beginning and baptism are, in fact, already in the debates on limiting the advertising of alcohol. Allow me, at the beginning of this reading, to express my gratitude to all Members, with the emphasis also on the opposition Members who have actually made a very creative contribution, that you have before you a version of the law in the second reading, which, according to our opinion, is the best that has not come into its compromise form, which has retained all the messages that we have wanted to achieve with this law and which we can, by the proposaler, submit to this Parliament for further consideration with a clear conscience. The law is intended for substances that are traditionally present between us and which, in their excessive use, also means drugs and leads to conquest and is particularly dangerous to young people. That is why this law, although of course only with what the law allows, wants to contribute to our approach and our attempt to limit this evil in this country being successful. In general, the law could be divided into two parts: measures to limit alcohol consumption and measures to prevent the harmful effects of alcohol. Of course, in limiting alcohol consumption, these measures are in almost all implementations, and in all articles they are also bound by certain sanctions for those who do not respect those provisions. Nevertheless, I would like to say, particularly encouraged by the debates that have been held in public, that this law will not act in any way repressively, but will try to influence with these restrictions - and this has already happened in another similar law, in the case of Cadillac - to the changed view of alcohol, to the changed or more cautious views of those who sell and pour alcohol, to their awareness that they owe at least to the most vulnerable population, to young people under 18 years of age, on their own, not because they would be under threat of punishment, to restrict the sale and supply of alcohol. And that even people, all citizens who will witness such an offer of alcohol, will be able to respond appropriately in their daily lives. We believe that this restrictive part of the law will have the greatest impact on this or, above all, on this. And that sanctions in individual cases that will follow will probably be only exceptions that will confirm the first rule. On the other hand, the law sets up a consistent permanent policy in the field of action to reduce alcohol consumption, supports the establishment of a body which, at the level of the Ministry of Health, will coordinate the creation of regular projects, programmes and will also monitor the effectiveness of these programmes, with which we want to reduce alcohol consumption. Of course, it is important to know that we really want to reduce alcohol consumption. This consumption is indeed too high compared to most countries in Europe, but we want to say at the same time what the economic consequences are, that this reduced consumption that we expect will bring an increased economic benefit, because any large consumption of alcohol also brings loss to the country on economic pay, and these losses are dramatically higher than the economic impact of alcohol sales itself. Let me just say two more words about what happened between the first and second readings. In fact, the law has seen improvements in the Committee on Health and Social Policy. In the law, we redefine the limit for spirit drinks at 15%, which is in line with the definitions we have adopted in the meantime. It is very important to add alcoholic beverages to non-alcoholic beverages, which means that we try to eliminate what is most perverse, that via the non-alcoholic drinks I add to them, it tries to influence young people to learn the bad taste of alcohol in the first place. And to finish, we have also determined that each alcoholic drink provider must offer two different non-alcoholic drinks, which are cheaper than the cheapest alcohol. And it's not just in the pubs, it's also in the shops. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u118	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a mother's labour force. I ask the Chairman of the Committee, Mr Stanislav Brenčič, to present the opinion.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u119	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. The proposal for a law on the restriction of alcohol consumption was addressed by the Committee of the National Assembly on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a parent at its 25th regular meeting on 6.11. The members of the committee took note of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the law well and also made specific comments to the proposal on Articles 5, 9 and 15 of the bill. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, the Committee held a discussion on the individual articles of the draft law and the amendments tabled, with the submission of qualified candidates, the Group of the Liberal Democracy and the United List of Slovenia, its amendments as well as fellow Member Cukjat. Representatives of the Association for Trade at the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia and representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also participated in the work of the Committee. Both had specific comments on Articles 2, 5, 10, mainly from the point of view of alcohol content in foodstuffs and comments on the Health Council's tasks and on the time of restrictions on the sale of alcoholic beverages. The discussion focused on how to monitor the implementation of the provisions of the law in practice, how to protect the consumer or consumer, and indirectly how to reduce the harmful effects of excessive consumption or alcohol consumption. In the course of a constructive debate on an individual article, the Committee adopted amendments to the two parliamentary groups, namely the Liberal Democrats of Slovenia and the United List of Social Democrats, on Articles 2, 10 and 13, and the amendments of the fellow Member of Parliament to Articles 12 and 13. The Committee did not adopt amendments to Articles 4 and 7. Mr Tsukati also withdrew the amendments to Articles 7 and 9. They have become irrelevant amendments to Article 5, since the Committee has drafted and adopted its amendment and is also irrelevant to the amendment of the sent groups to Article 12. However, in the light of the weighty findings drawn from the opinion of the secretariat, the Committee has drafted its amendments by 5, or two amendments by 5, and two amendments by 7, the amendment to 9, the amendment to Article 15. After the discussion, the Committee also voted on all the articles and also voted on all the articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u120	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled, which will be guided by the review of the amendments of 20.11.2002. The debate was attended by parliamentary groups, namely LDS 5 minutes, SDS 15 minutes, United List 3 minutes, SLS 3 minutes, Nova Slovenija 15 minutes, DeSUS 5 minutes, SNS 10 minutes, SMS 10 minutes and government 10 minutes. I am putting Article 5 and the amendment of the DeSUS, LDS, SLS and the Members' Group of the United List of Social Democrats into the debate. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I therefore conclude the debate and put to discussion Article 7 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u121	Thank you for your word. Surely, in every law we adopt, we ask ourselves about possible effects. If it is possible to expect a positive effect from the law, it is worth accepting. Even if it is not expected, I do not know what drastic reductions in alcoholism in Slovenia, but if we reduce alcoholism by just a few percent, or if we move public opinion on this Slovenian characteristic for at least a few minutes, then it is worth adopting the law. But if we accept it, we would want to be consistent in individual dictions. During the debate on the Committee, the principle was adopted in certain articles that what is prohibited or commanded or where the rules of the game are laid down in the guest establishments should also apply to all alcoholic beverages, not only for guest establishments, but also for petrol pumps or shops and others. Example: Article 13 previously stated: “Hospital establishments selling alcoholic beverages must have at least two different types of non-alcoholic beverages.” We have accepted on the Committee that this positive principle should apply not only to guest plants but also to petrol pumps. Even if they're selling alcohol, juice should be available. And so is the store. If they're selling alcohol, they should also be ordered non-alcoholic beverages. This principle, however, has somehow failed to be adopted in Article 7, which states in the second paragraph that the sale of alcoholic beverages is prohibited in the inn to persons who show obvious signs of alcohol awareness. This is certainly a wise provision, although there are concerns here. First of all, a wise provision, because an obviously drunk person could say that at that point it is not critical enough, is almost in some way incapacitated and if you offer or sell alcohol further, it can happen, not only for him, but for the environment, both family and social environment, a big mistake can happen. Not to mention traffic accidents or anything. But there are two dilemmas here. How do you figure out the obvious ingenuity? I don't think there's much of a dilemma here. For there are signs, doubtful signs of ingenuity: but the law speaketh not of this. The law speaks of those obvious signs when everyone can quickly determine whether it really is a very drunk person. However, if this is in the inn, why not apply this principle in both the shop and the gas station. There are also these arguments, these arguments which should be taken into account in preventing additional damage, both for the buyer and for the environment. And another thought sometimes appears. What if an individual asks for an alcoholic drink? How can a salesman resist that? I do not think that the possibility of blackmail can be the reason why such legal provisions would not be adopted for me. For this reason, we have proposed an amendment to Article 7, where this provision that obviously drunk persons should not continue to be offered, to sell alcohol, is not only applicable to catering establishments, but in general to all alcoholic beverages sellers. I hope the amendment is adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs. Shirca, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u123	Thank you very much. In the third reading, we are faced with only three amendments, two of which are editorial in nature, in fact, substantively or partly problematic, only now is this article 7 or the amendment to Article 7. This is an article that discusses when sales can be banned and the supply of alcoholic beverages and beverages added to them by various alcohol supplements. I do not think that this is a very controversial dilemma in substance, and I suppose that Members of Parliament will vote here at their own discretion. In fact, we will decide between a less restrictive and more restrictive approach. As the MP, the amendment's proposal, explained, he explained something, not salt, but logic in the proposal he was making. After all, really, why? If we went by analogy, if we didn't go to the inn, then why would we go to a store that's only two meters away from the place, and we can sell and have these alcoholic drinks available? However, I think that the assessment of this amendment may also apply slightly to practice or to thinking about how to apply in practice one consistent exercise of a principle where we would not leave a difference between drinking alcohol at inn and acquiring and purchasing alcohol in stores. On the Committee itself, a number of such arguments were put forward by the government in the sense that the traceability of alcohol consumption and drinking is easier in the inn. But neither does this one if we know that the place can be replaced from moment to moment. I will personally follow practical logic or the possibility that we can also face very small shops or shops, where there is, in fact, very little cadre, which could be against the possible inconveniences that may occur at the end of the day, probably blackmail in trying to buy alcohol if it is not legally justified to do so. In addition, we do not have any criminal sanctions. It is true that according to the law on offences or against public order and peace there is already a second indent, it is said that the inn is covered by the rules of the game which are here in reach. But if we read a chronicle in a central newspaper today, then we would see an event from some kind of segment where it's supposed to be an uncultured consumption of alcohol, if I can express the consequences, where the police are not partial to consumers, but they are exceeding proper alcohol consumption. In short, I don't think the dilemma is fatal, and even this marriage will not turn its head in its intentions. Logically, what is possible is that we can only judge what is easier in practice. In large supermarkets and shops, this would certainly not be difficult to apply the principle you are proposing, but perhaps in some other more specific and even very common situations it would be difficult. Certainly this law was not made with the assumption that in Slovenia there is a culture of drinking, I will say, at a high level, otherwise they would not go into such restrictive restrictions as those which prohibit alcohol consumption in one glass of wine at lunch at the workplace. But we are not faced with this culture, we will not yet appear to be overindulgence in alcohol or harmful, certainly not only in the letters of the law, but in particular in general awareness. These paths we know and have said many times that they are long, entangled in traditions, in social, social values and other contexts. As long as this context does not exist, we will not perceive a glass of wine as a cure, but as something that can turn into two glasses, into three glasses, or into some even more burdensome and dangerous drink. I will personally take a less restrictive form of the proposal than in the basic law, but I do not think it is fatal if your proposal is confirmed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u124	Thank you very much. Mr Jerovšek, please, then Mr Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u125	Thank you very much. With regard to who should be banned from selling alcoholic beverages, of course, it is an extremely important question and it is worth doing a great deal or anything to reduce alcoholism in Slovenia through certain measures which are of a prohibitive nature, but must be as little prohibitive as possible. Alcoholism is currently a cancer of the Slovenians, and I fear that because of the social disintegration of society, these extraordinary social differences in our society that have emerged over the past ten years, alcoholism will only increase. Here, I do not think that the government shows sufficient responsibility, sufficient seriousness and that it does not recognise its merits for the increase in the number of alcoholics in Slovenia. It would be possible to drive a completely different policy of sharing goods in Slovenia and to help reduce the number of people caught in alcoholism on the basis of a smart policy. This was not the objective of this policy, this policy option, which reigns in Slovenia. Of course, I support this amendment, which our Group of Members has put in place. However, another question is raised, which is essentially an ethical question, including in relation to this amendment. See if it is ethical to ban the spikes of alcohol from a man who, in a great tribulation, is in great distress or in death. I'll give you an example. I believe that in the last five, six years in Celje, there have been up to 200, 300 people with acute cancer who have refused treatment in the hospital. They have not been reviewed, they have been treated, although this is a fundamental constitutional right and also the duty of the Ministry to take care of such cases. If such a person is in mortal danger, showing obvious signs of illness and is like an alcoholic, he comes to a restaurant and asks for alcohol spikes or an ethical rejection in this death threat. I don't know if the Ministry is asking about any ethics to essentially focus on prohibition and nothing has been done about that whole hospital case. Is there a moral presence here? I hope that the Minister will tell, including with regard to this amendment, what were the priorities of his ministry. Or is it not a more fundamental right than to engage in such a rigorous way with prohibition? Although I say it is worth doing whatever it takes to prevent young people from taking part in this. The primary instruments had the government in all these years: to prevent the causes of alcoholism. She wasn't working on it. I don't know. [[...]] I'm telling you again. Is it a death threat that the medical institution in this country has not even examined the cancerous tissue it has sent to death to comfort it with at least a spike of alcohol? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Mr. Petty Officer, please. I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall! Mr. Petty Officer has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u127	Thank you so much for saying that. Now we are kind of discussing with what extent, and we would like to make a sharp effort to reduce the use of alcohol or alcohol abuse, because we are standing on the border somehow, that there is wine, and I don't know what else, food, and on the other hand, the devil is hiding in this miracle food. Since our society is relatively tolerant and inclined to drink alcohol [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u128	I'm asking nicely for peace in the hall.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u129	We do. We do. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u130	Dear Members, please. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u131	I'm having a hard time arguing. I really can't.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u132	Please, honourable Members and Members, the Rules of Procedure say that the speaker has the right to peace in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u133	that there is also a gray market, so we have no real idea of alcohol consumption, that our culture is very fond of alcohol consumption. [[...]] Well, by the way, Mr. Bajuk, who saw these things happening in Slovenia at these holidays, said, "Whereever I come or come from, they bring me a bottle." So there is a culture, which is not so developed in countries, countries that are wine. In view of this, I am personally leaning towards measures that are more restrictive. I would personally support the amendment of the Social Democratic Party and this explanation given by Mr Tsukati. It is also about how to put into the same trade relationship and the restaurant, which is located in the immediate vicinity. This is also a guarantee of some market equality. In this respect, I would like to take this sharper approach. Of course, to obtain arguments for treating innkeepers equally and trade equally. So exactly 100 percent of the arguments I make can be challenged by someone. However, I am leaning forward, given that we have to make a decision, but I would be more inclined for this solution, which Mr Tsukati has given us. I would support it with the aim of normalising Slovenia, as far as alcohol consumption is concerned, to become this cultural and food experience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u135	Thank you very much. Unlike my colleagues, I, as well as the law, do not read so much restrictively and not as difficult prohibitions, but, above all, as an explicit and particularly very important protection of health, as well as the protection of public interest for the preservation of this health, health as a very important value and the good of national importance. As you know, Mr Drobnič, this is one of the most important and high values within the public interest. As a result, this article and all other articles in this series should be read in this way. If we find that we do not have a drinking culture, we can also find that there is a species here, in particular in the preceding articles, 3. and so on, measures and activities that, in one way, help to raise also the drinking culture. Awareness, information, information, and education are also part of this package. Through education, it is likely that next year or five years from now, Mr Bajuk will come to one such farm, when he visits, he will be offered not one bottle, but perhaps three different types of drinks, namely only one glass with a certain good meal. Because we Slovenians know that we also have this food and we know how to prepare it well. That is why I think that the law has tried extremely hard to map out some things because we are aware that the problems arising from excessive alcohol consumption are unfortunately too great. You yourself have checked the data that the percentage here from national gross income is almost 2 to 5 percent according to the World Health Organization. I've even noticed somewhere that, say, the treatment of one alcoholic costs as much as the education of ten gifted children. That is why I think that, in all of this, more emphasis should be placed on this law and read it as an express and extreme protection. If a certain article prohibits the consumption of alcoholic beverages over a certain period and certain areas, this is seen only as a prospect for a better time, and health as a basic objective will also increase the level of health care for the entire population of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr. Lenko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. In Slovenia we have a strange attitude towards alcohol. We have high consumption of alcohol per capita, and so alcohol is in fact indispensable in traditional rituals and follows us from birth to death. When we look at the matter in more detail, we quickly find that alcohol has very negative effects on the brewery’s surroundings. It has been shown to have an effect on the deterioration of the health status of the alcoholic, and in many cases alcohol also affects the breakdown of the family and often leads to the early death of an alcoholic. In particular, I need to expose the impact of alcohol on children and the growing youth. Research has shown that daily drinking among young people is more widespread than smoking. It is worrying that the percentage of 15-year-olds who drink and drink alcohol is constantly increasing. We need to pay particular attention to this problem because research shows that alcohol addiction is developing four times more rapidly in those who start drinking before the age of 15. These are disturbing findings. In particular for the protection of young people in our Member Group, DeSUS and I personally support the adoption of this law, as well as all the amendments adopted by the Committee on Health, Labour, Family, Social Policy and Disabled Persons as a parent labour force. I also support the adoption of Article 7 in the original dictatorship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Mr. Cuckoo, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u139	In view of the fact that we have five minutes left, I would like to take advantage of this article and in the amendment with two, with only two examples of life, you too can find a hundred or a thousand. When I was on duty at the General Emergency Service in Vrhnika, the police called to say that there was a car in the border by the road, there to Horjul and there was a driver's stroke. Of course, we went straight away, we flew because it could be a final stroke, it could only be partial and similar. When we got there, the driver was in a coma, but somehow the heart was working normally, the heartbeat was normal, he was breathing normally, and there was no signs of a heart or a stroke, but he was in a coma. Behind the wheel, gentlemen. In a coma. Fortunately, there was a border on that curve, a soft border, and a car grew a little further into the ground. In a coma, gentlemen. Of course, after a long time of examination of the blood, that it might not be comatose because of hypoglycaemia or something else, we found that he was actually totally drunk. Gentlemen, a hundred yards from the inn. And when we went to the diner, the waitress said, "Yes, I'm totally drunk." But they still poured it. Supposedly, this chauffeur led not to the border, but to some mommy with a wheelchair on the side of the road. Gentlemen, these are serious matters. And that's a felony. Another case. Every month we have a party close to us all night, a neighbor getting drunk, but while he's drunk, honestly drunk, he's still kind of a pain in the ass. But when he's totally drunk, he doesn't know what he's doing, and his wife, of course, shuts up in the house, locks up, he locks up the Robbies all night, last time he breaks in and beats his wife, and we have a party like this, that man just wonders how. This man, well-known when he's drunk, goes from neighbor to neighbor, and his neighbors offer him a brand-new drink. And finally he goes to the buffet, drunk, barely dizzy, and gets another drink. Everyone knows the consequences. Everybody knows he's gonna beat his wife up. Everyone knows he's going to break in, maybe he's going over the cattle in the barn with an axe, everybody knows that. Gentlemen, this is a crime for me. Although this marriage will not achieve the punishment of those neighbors, some of this mentality, some of this seriousness, a serious attitude towards a drunk person, we speak, not to the one who is a little happy, to the apparently drunk, but some of this seriousness is worth writing down.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u140	Thank you very much. I'm sorry. Mr. Brenčič, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u141	Thank you so much for saying that. We are now discussing the whole law, not Article 7. I support the amendment, as stated in the review by Dr. Tsukati, because it is more consistent or more specific in practice. I also say that I support, strongly support the purpose of the law and the concept as such. However, I am not in favour of making a state of mind, as if we were a nation of drunkards, and I do not know what yet. There's something about this marriage that I don't take for granted. If we just look at the naturistic season and take the fact that by 10.00 hours no spirit drink should be added to the tea, to other beverages and so on, it is in practice difficult to make or perhaps even unnecessary. You'd understand somewhere by 8:00, 9:00, when you're going to work and work. But I'll ask myself how I'll be now that I run up to Slivnica and carry nothing with me when I arrive at 6:00, 7:00 a.m., I'll have a cup of tea with one measure of rum. Now practically this inn won't give it to me. Of course, I'll be wearing that bottle that's made for it and carried by all the mountain lovers with us, from now on with us. I mean, the law is good, it has a good purpose, but in some segments, we're slightly re-sealing the matter, given the practical life we're living, but with the best prevention and the attitude towards preventing the excessive use of alcohol. Thank you very much. But I support Dr. Tsukati's proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u143	Allow me to make just a few comments. First of all, what is most important about the proposal made by Mr Tsukati. I myself have contributed some arguments for and against his proposal. I transferred them from the previous debate, when we have already included such a solution in one of the drafts and in fact, the basic consideration is merely the recognition, the rapid recognition of the guilty person in front of the treasury, as opposed to the recognition of the guilty person in the inn. However, allow me, my personal opinion, in fact, also following the new arguments I have heard today, to the solution proposed by Member Tsukati, especially if we understand it in a positive sense that this does not mean that these unfortunate cashiers who may not recognize the guilty person will be punished, but that the prohibition that all Slovenians know does not serve alcohol is in place. If this is how we will understand it, if inspection services understand it too, then I think it leads to greater consistency and to this, I mean the purpose of this article. In fact, as clearly as it does, I leave it to Members to make their own decisions in this article as they see fit. Some other things, of course, alcohol and suffering patients, allow me to say briefly - if this is already the case and if in some cases it is also what I accept, then, of course, these suffering patients have a trade available from the morning forward and there is no need for them to experience their suffering in society in the near ten hours. The same argument, of course, applies to this morning's ban. This morning's ban is not actually directed at those who want to burn spikes. I want to do it again. It is intended that those who need branding do not take with them others who do not need it to eat brandy in association with them. In fact, the point of preventing the inn from pouring in is in some way to break in the nomads, the cultural phenomenon of association with the morning branding. That's the point. Of course, all stores are open and individual consumption is possible. And after all, hotel rooms have their own buffets, and in hotel rooms, those who want to have morning pins will surely find a drink that they can drink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Since there is no longer a desire to discuss Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7, I conclude the debate and add Article 15 to the debate and to the amendments of the DeSUS, LDS, SLS and the United Kingdom. Anybody want a word? Mr. Diaci, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u145	Thank you for your word. I would essentially have one question on Article 15 of the existing text. It reads: "The police control the sale and supply of alcoholic beverages" then the second indent, "sale of alcoholic beverages" and the third and fourth indents are somewhat controversial. It reads: "Sale or offer of alcoholic beverages in catering establishments to persons who are reasonably expected to be forwarded to persons under 18 years of age." And the following indent, "sale or supply of alcoholic beverages in the inn to persons who are reasonably expected to be referred to persons who show obvious signs of alcohol awareness". I'm interested in this. The word "justifiable assumption" is, in my opinion, a little vague. For if we make a little joke, every man can be a potential rapist, because it is rightly assumed that he carries the tools himself. And this verbal relationship, if you could please explain it to me.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Dr. Keber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u147	It is an explanation of this Article. In fact, these are the specific circumstances under which this happens. For example, there is a young man sitting at the table and someone over the age of 18 ordering a drink among them. Or another case. A young man gathers in front of the store and sends someone to get a drink box. It is clear that at the first moment and at the first such attempt it will not be reasonable to assume this. But let's say in the next experiment, the seller might assume that's what's going to happen. In short, it is a matter of circumstances that are, of course, interpreted by everyone for himself. Not that this is the case, however, we think that by a reasonable approach, and the evidence that follows, this article is to be used meaningfully. And it would be quite difficult to write it differently.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We will vote on the amendments in accordance with the timetable for the meeting today at 8.15 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. At 20:00 and 15 minutes, we will continue to vote on the proposals for decisions today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u149	Dear Members, honourable Members, representatives and representatives of the Government! Good-bye, everyone. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. First of all, we are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions proposed at yesterday's meeting of the assembly on questions of Members and Members. Mr Bajuk proposed a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the Minister of Finance of Mags. Anton Ropa asked Dr Andre Bajuk about the implementation of the 2001 State Budget, for which the Court of Auditors found in the audit report that it was in significant non-compliance with the rules. Is that what you're objecting to? [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u150	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I think you're saying the wrong things. The question of emissary colleague Bajuk was raised to the Prime Minister, Drnovšk. And if he did not know the answer to the question that has been announced, it is his problem and also liberal democracy. However, not to mention that experts will now answer such a question. It is the political responsibility of the Prime Minister to answer the question that has even been announced. If he denies this duty, he humiliates this national council, and yesterday this humiliation took place. But this shows some political will and political face. Not now to embellish the image and image of the Prime Minister in a way that somehow falsifies what the question is asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Allow me to explain the rules of procedure and also the text. 246. Article 246 states that if the Member is not satisfied with the reply he received at the meeting, he may request that the reply be completed and, on a proposal from the Member who raised the question, the State may decide to hold a discussion on the government's response at the next meeting. In such a way that the text of the decision is correct. The government's response has been given to the person of the Minister of Finance, and we will vote on this proposal for the decision of our distinguished colleague, Dr Andrey Bajuk. We are voting on the proposal for a decision as presented. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present. 18 votes to 40. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision by Mr Saš Pečet, which reads as follows: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next regular meeting on the response of the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Dr Janez Drnovška, to the following question: The form of State aid, resources of state aid in terms of ensuring coherent regional development in the past actions of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and future measures. We are voting on this. We're voting. I'm sorry. Explanation of the voice, Mr Jerovšek. Here you go. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I will support this proposal from my fellow Member, Mr Pečet, because the area of regional development and the failure to comply with the law, which has been adopted with great promises in this area, is in fact one of the worst violations of the policies adopted in this country, the denial of the national assembly and the priority in this country. I see that Members of the Liberal Democracy have enough to say on this subject, but when we ask for a debate, they do not want it. I don't know. I hope it's different today. [[A voice from behind.]] You're stealing my time. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u153	Please, Mr. Jakič, don't touch the speaker's word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u154	Some regions of Slovenia are emptied because of the lack of a policy of equal regional development in Slovenia. This is also an attack on the country's strategy. When I witnessed three weeks ago the meeting of the representatives of the parties, the representative of the Liberal Democracy, the official representative, is such an unheard-of thesis that the government will amend this law by amending it to waste such unacceptable theories that it was terrifying. I don't know what else the government is up to in this area. So he thinks simply to break again after Kopač's pattern to adopt the law, not to comply with legal obligations, and with some sub-laws he predicts some changes that will not, of course, be in favour of Podravje, Štajerska, Prekmurje, Posačje once become a region where there will also be comparable, enduring life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Kangler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u156	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! I will personally support this proposal. I am aware that we have finally spoken more in 1999 when we passed the law on more coherent regional development on a problem which is respected by our fellow Member, Mr Peca. I also personally note that some statistics, which have been carefully processed and stored at the Institute for Statistics of the Republic of Slovenia, have shown that there have been some differences recently between the two regions. Whether to compare demographic data or any other data. I am personally interested in being a Member, and I think it would be right for us to be familiar with the measures and activities it is taking to reduce some of the differences between one and the other regions on this topic in the National Assembly. I also want to find out which of those projects and tasks that have been well or poorly set by the regions, but which have been supported or reversed by the government, have not been carried out. And I think that the government can get us to know each other thoroughly in this regard, and that we will be able to speak again after 1999 on this thoroughly in the National Assembly. That is why I will also support this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mr. Anderlich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u158	I will vote against this motion for a decision because it was not clear from your proposal what this debate was about. On the contrary, Mr Pache said, "Thank you for this opportunity. I will take this opportunity and ask that we put to the vote that this issue of the development of the city of Maribor and the expansion of the wider range of partners involved, not only the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, but also the current city authority, which has unfortunately proved to be inadequate, be included in the meeting of the National Assembly and help over 200,000 people in this environment. Thank you." On this issue, on this issue, it seems to me that it is not possible to discuss clearly in the National Assembly, because city authorities and even broader partners are supposed to be involved here, and until the issue is clearly defined, it is not possible to just place the item on the agenda, because tomorrow I will propose the issue of the other 200,000 citizens, someone else tomorrow and so on. I think that in order to discuss at the national assembly, things must be better prepared, better defined and, of course, in that case, I could support that too. In that case, I can't do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u159	Thank you very much. Mr. Pece, please. Explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u160	Thank you for your word. Look, it's more than a month ago when Mr. Kelemina tried the same thing. All I would like personally and as a result of this business opportunity yesterday is to discuss coherent regional development in this National Assembly in cooperation with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the competent ministries. Whether it is the city of Maribor or whether it is any other municipality, which is in a worse position than the average of Slovenia. I am convinced that it is reasonable to discuss this point and that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia is preparing measures to promote coherent regional development. This National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, passed a law a few years ago on promoting coherent regional development, which the government does not adhere to. It does not follow the information because there is insufficient financial resources. On the other hand, the law on aid to companies is in difficulty at this point in time. This is about the same material, but this law also does not involve adequate financial resources. And if we want Slovenia to develop evenly, and what I think should be useful and proud of all of us, I think this proposal for this consideration should also be accepted. However, they may decide that individual Members are to hunt eggs in the hair, hair in the egg. This is, of course, their legitimate right and their attitude towards the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Just let me explain. The question which Member Sašo Peca addressed to the Prime Minister in writing is the text in this part. The question of the form of State aid, the source of State aid in terms of ensuring coherent regional development under past measures by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and future measures. This is, and the Rules of Procedure say that, on the proposal of the Member who has asked the question, the National Assembly may decide to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Government, or the Secretary-General or the Minister-General. This decision shall be decided by the State Assembly without discussion and shall also be drawn up in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. Voice explanation, Mr. Rupar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Just as you have read, I have understood this proposal and will support it. And even if I misinterpreted him like Comrade Anderlich did, I would also support him. Especially because it's 200,000 people. Excuse me. I don't care about these 200,000 people. And if we start talking about the first group of 200,000 people and the second group of 200,000 people, we might be able to re-engineer the whole of Slovenia at ten sessions. Not always one and the same group, 200,000 privileged in this country, around which all laws revolve, all debates and all decisions are in their favor. I'm only going to support this proposal because it's 200,000 other people.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Since we no longer wish to explain our vote, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, as I have read it. Just a moment, please. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance. The vote was 28 to 29. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 29.]] I take it that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 2nd item of the agenda - consideration of the proposal for a decree on the call for a preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on the transformation and privatisation of the public enterprise Slovenske železnice, d.d. We are moving on to a decision on the procedural proposal by Member Janez Podobnik to deliver an opinion, pursuant to Rule 73(3) of the Rules of Procedure, on the proposal for a decision on the clarity of the question raised in accordance with Article 15 of the Law on Referendum and Human Initiative. We are voting on the proposal for a procedural decision. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. It's 51 votes against 7. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against the seven.]] I note that the proposal has been adopted, That's why I'm breaking this agenda. We continue with the end of the 3rd item of the agenda - the consideration of the proposal to call for a preliminary act of the nominee referendum on the proposal for a law on disability organisations. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision, which reads as follows: A preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on disability organisations is being opened. One more time. A preliminary legislative referendum on the proposal for a law on disability organisations shall be held. This is a proposal for a decision we are voting on. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance. The vote was 9 to 48. [[The vote was nine.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the proposed decision has not been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 4th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the bill on offences. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We vote on the amendment to Article 19. The proposers shall be SLS, LDS, United Lists and DeSUS. If you don't mind, I'll appoint four members of the group in the future. We're voting. There are 60 of us present. 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to the 23rd members of the same parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 57 of us present. 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to the 26th members of the same parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 58 of us present. 46 votes against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[I'm against it.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to the 31st Article of the same parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to 114th members of the same parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to 135 members of the same parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We vote on the amendment to Article 143. She is a member of the Slovenian People's Party. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 49 votes against none. [[The vote was 49.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to Article 207 of the four Groups of Members' position. We're voting. There are 62 of us present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to the 214th member of the Socialist Party Group. We're voting. There are 64 of us present. 18 votes against 39. [[The vote was 18.]] [[Against 39.]] I'm guessing the amendment wasn't adopted. We are voting on the amendment to Article 225, and the candidates are the parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. It was 45 votes against 5. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. And also on the last amendment, on the amendment to Article 227 of the same proposal. We're voting. There are 56 of us present. It's 42 votes against 4. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. This concludes the vote on the amendments. The assembly will hold its third reading of the bill at the next meeting of the assembly. Therefore, on the basis of the third paragraph of Rule 137 of the Rules of Procedure, I propose to the assembly that it adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law is prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 61 of us present. There's 51 votes against no one. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. And that concludes this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the law on the State Prosecutor's Office. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled. Article 34 is amended as follows: We are voting on this. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. Since the amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading and the Minister proposed, in the presentation, that the assembly, pursuant to Rule 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure, should have a third reading of the draft law at that meeting, I propose that we vote on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 64 of us present. It's 55 votes against 5. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against the 5.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 29.11.2002. The services of the assembly will prepare a review of the amendment adopted and the article to which the amendment was adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. As no amendments have been tabled to the supplementary proposal of the Ski Safety Act, the assembly on this item will not vote in the context of the second reading. The third hearing will be held on Friday, 29.11.2002. We continue with the end of the 7th item of the agenda - the second consideration of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Protection Act. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We vote on the amendment to Article 5. The proposers shall be four groups of Members. We're voting. There's 63 of us in attendance. It's 53 votes against no one. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to the 14th members of the same parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance. The vote was 48 against 1. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to the 17th Article of the same Group of Members. We're voting. There are 59 of us in attendance. The vote was 47, against 2. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to the 63rd members of the same parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 62 of us here. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment for the new 66th member of the same parliamentary groups. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance. It's 50 votes against no one. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are also voting on the amendment for the new 66.b Article of the same proposal. We're voting. There are 59 of us present, 48 votes against none. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Representative of the government, Mrs. Vesna Berk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u164	I propose, in accordance with the first paragraph of Rule 138 of the Rules of Procedure, that the third reading of the amendment proposal and the amendment of the law take place at this meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u165	Thank you very much. Since I can find that amendments to less than a dozen articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, and the bill's proposers propose that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure at that meeting, carry out a third examination of the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 52 votes against 6. [[The vote was 52.]] [[Against six.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. The National Assembly will thus carry out its third consideration of the bill on Friday, 29.11.2002. The services of the assembly will provide an overview of the amendments adopted and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on the revision of public procurement procedures. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We vote on the amendment to Article 1. All three amendments are proposed by the New Slovenia Group. We're voting. There are 63 of us present, 56 votes against 2. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are voting on the amendment to Article 7 of the same proposal. We're voting. There are 61 of us present, 44 votes against 8. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We are moving to vote on the amendment to Article 8 of the same motions. We're voting. There are 56 of us present, 47 votes against 4. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. Representative of the government, Mr. Igor Soltes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u166	I propose that, in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 138, a third consideration of the proposal of the law be carried out at this same meeting.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-11-26-SDZ3-Redna-20.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Since I can find that amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill and the proposaler, the representative of the bill-maker proposes that the assembly, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure at this meeting, carry out a third examination of the draft law, we are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 60 of us in attendance. It's 55 votes against 3. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against three.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. Thus, on Friday, 29.11.2002, the State Assembly will hold a third hearing on the draft law. The services of the assembly will provide an overview of the amendments adopted and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to agenda number nine. As we can see that in order to deal with this item on the agenda, this is a proposal for a law on graduation, the conditions for decision are not met, we will decide when the conditions are met. You have also received the position of Mr Battelli, a fellow Member of Parliament, who rightly points out that we are also obliged to obtain the opinion of the self-government interest community when this law is being considered. That is why we will move on to a decision on this item on the agenda when these conditions are met. We are moving on to the end of the 10th item of the agenda - secondly on the proposal for a law restricting alcohol consumption. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the amendment to Article 5 of the four post groups. We're voting. There are 55 of us present. 48 votes against no one. [[The vote was 48.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. Allow me to correct my statement in the previous part, perhaps because of the speed, of course, of the self-government national community, absolutely not interesting. Mr. Batteli, I'm sorry. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to the 7th Article of the Socialist Party Group. We're voting. There are 58 of us present. The vote was 31 to 23. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. The final vote is the amendment to the 15th Article of the Group of Members' position. We're voting. There are 52 of us present. The vote was 43 to 1. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We ended the vote on the amendments. I can see that, in the second reading, more than one-tenth of the articles were adopted by amendments to the amended draft law. Therefore, the assembly will hold its third consideration of the draft law at its next meeting. I propose once again, on the basis of Rule 137(3) of the Rules of Procedure, that the Council adopt the following decision: a proposal for a third-reading law shall be prepared by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. We will vote on this proposal. We're voting. There are 54 of us present. He voted 46 against 1. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 20th session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, which will be resumed tomorrow at 10 a.m. I would like to thank the representatives and representatives of the Government very much for their cooperation, both Members and Members. Thank you so much and good night. I invite all kind and sincere to the cultural event that will take place after the meeting in the lobby of our plenary hall. Thank you so much and good night.
