ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u1	I invite fellow Members and fellow Members to come to the large debate room of the National Assembly. We'll continue the 12th session. We're going to move on to the 25th point, we're going to deal with the interpolation, so I'm inviting you to come to the hall. Again, I invite all fellow Members and fellow Members to come from the lobby to the Assembly Hall. I ask that the committees or commissions suspend the work and allow Members and Members to participate in the debates in the Chamber. We'll start the 12th session. Before that, I will inform you of the decision submitted to the assembly by the Commission on Immunity. Colleagues and fellow Members, good afternoon! Welcome to the 12th meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. I am informed that they are detained and that today's meetings cannot be attended by some of our colleagues and colleagues: colleague Lavričeva, colleague Dr Merlo, colleague Majnikov, colleague Malovrev, Fabjan, Gračner, Vučko, Kopušar and colleague Barovic. Otherwise, everyone else should be present at the hall. I'll ask you nicely to press the "quorum" button to determine the presence in the hall. I don't think one group of Members is present. Please, let's find out who's here. Yes, we will have to wait for another group to join us. I believe that additional attention is needed for such an important item in the agenda, but the State Assembly must carry out its work normally. I invite my colleagues and colleagues to re-examine the presence in the hall. Please, let's find out if there's a presence in the hall. Please press the "quorum" button. We're picking up a presence at the hall. There are 55 Members and Members present in the Chamber; the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is concluded and may decide. The Minister for the Environment and the Magi Area was invited to attend today's meeting. John the Ripper, who is among us and we can greet him. I also welcome all the present and wish them a pleasant day. Today's follow-up to the 12th session will begin with the consideration of the 25th item on the agenda, this is the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Janez the Digger. And before that, we'll be - I beg you for peace in the hall! - consider a decision submitted to the assembly by the Commission on immunity in respect of the performance of the duties of Members. It is a matter of determining a candidate who, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, has become a Member for the remainder of the term of office, instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office. On 24 January this year, the National Assembly found that Ambassador Igor Bavčar had terminated his term of office. The Republican Election Commission forwarded to the assembly the conclusion that the mandate of former Member Igor Bavčar had passed on to Mr Roman Jakič. Today, the findings were addressed by a mandate-immunity commission, which reported in writing to the assembly. You received the commission's report on the bench today. The Commission's rapporteur wants a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative of the secretariat want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? [[Neither do I.]] Do any of the Members and Members want a word? [[No, no, ……]] Since no one wants to discuss it, we are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: Confirm the mandate of Mr Roman Jakič, born 1.5.1967, resident of Neubergerva 25, Ljubljana. We are voting on this. Please. We vote on the confirmation of the mandate of colleague Roman Jakic. There are 53 colleagues and colleagues present. There were 50 for it, no one objected. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. On the basis of the recommendation of the Business Commission, I also propose to the Assembly that the following proposal be adopted: Member Roman Jakič shall continue to serve as a member, alternate member or member and leaders in working bodies or delegations whose member has been replaced or a member and leader, while acting as a member under Article 14, paragraph 14, of the Law on Members. Anyone want a word about that? I'm guessing there's no one. I am therefore concluding the debate and we are voting on this proposal for a decision. Please identify yourself to the proposal. There are 48 Members and Members present in the Chamber. 43 were in favour, no one objected to this proposal. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand he's been accepted. [[Let's hear it.]] I'm asking for peace in the hall. We all share the joy of our colleague Jakič's arrival in the hall. We're moving on to 25. At the time of the day, this is for the defence of the interpretation of the work and the responsibility of the Minister for Environment and the Magi Space. Janez is digging. The Interpellation was tabled by a group of 24 Members and Members, with a first-signed magi. Andrei Vissiak. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 284 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly - I ask for peace in the Chamber until there is peace in the Chamber, I will not continue the meeting, Comrade Ferry Horvat. In accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 284 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the interpretation was sent to the Minister of the Environment and the Magi. Janez the Ripper. By letter dated 26.10.2001, you received the reply to the intervention submitted. On 16.11.2001, the Group of 24 Members and Members completed and extended the interpolation. In this regard, the Minister replied on 14.12.2001. I'm asking the proposer's representative if he wants a word. [[He wants a word.]] On behalf of the Group of Members and Members, the content of the interpretation will be presented by mag. A visor. You have the floor, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u2	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, representatives of the government! Dear Members and Members! Respectable Slovenian public! On the basis of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 284 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, 24 Members submitted an interpretation of the work and responsibilities of the Minister for the Environment and the Magi. Janez Kopača, due to: 1. infringements of Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia in conjunction with Article 104 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the failure of Article 11 of the Law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, storms with hail, landslides and sea-slides in 2000; 2. signature of a harmful contract on the heat treatment of animal waste for temporary storage prior to incineration and abuse of official status or official rights and infringements of Article 2 of the Public Finance Act; 3. Infringement of Article 2 and Article 3 of the Law on the promotion of coherent regional development; 4. misleading members of the National Assembly and the public under Article 263 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly on illegal private construction and in relation to violations of Articles 7, 33 and 45 of the Law on the Construction of Buildings and Article 2 of the Law on the Regulation of Settlements and Other Interventions to Space; 5. infringement of Article 3 of the Mining Rights Regulation to holders of exploration permits or the acquisition of mineral raw materials. And, in addition to interpolation, two more points. In particular: 6. infringements of the provisions of the Act on the conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Save for the purpose of suspending the regime of concessions; and 7. unlawful conduct of the process of preparing a site plan for the rehabilitation and installation of the Mosta hydropower plant. Therefore, on the basis of Article 118 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the undersigned Members propose that, following a final discussion on the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for the Environment and Space, the State Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia shall adopt the following decision: As a result of a violation of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, of the laws and regulations, the Minister of Mag. Janez Kopač clears the functions of Minister of Environment and Space. Next, I will present an explanation for the proposed interpretation, which, individually and of course, also all together, says that for such a position as the Minister of Environment and Space, it is necessary to elect a new person. And here I would also be referring to yesterday's decision, such a non-conflict one that does not repeat many mistakes in such a short period of time. First of all, this is a violation of Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in conjunction with Article 104 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the non-implementation of Article 11 of the Law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, storms with hail, landslides and seaslides in 2000. In accordance with Article 113 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, ministers shall, after the appointment of an oath before the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. The oath also made by mag to the appointment of the Minister of Environment and Space. Janez Kopač, Article 104 of the Constitution states: "I swear that I will respect constitutional order, that I will follow my conscience and work with all my strength for the well-being of Slovenia." According to Article 2, Slovenia is a legal country where the constitutional order is established by law, laws, regulations and other general rules. On 14 August 2001, after 7:30 p.m. in the TV diary on TV Slovenia, he also participated in the contribution with a statement by the Minister for Environment and Space Mag. Janez the Digger. The theme of the contribution was the implementation of the law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, storms with hail, landslides and sea-slides in 2000, adopted by the National Assembly in September 2000. Under this law, farmers in municipalities in the northwest of the country and in Posav, affected by a catastrophic drought, had to obtain approximately eight billion Slovenian aid tolls from the state budget. A poor third of the money was paid in 2000, and then it became complicated by the provision of funds to implement the law. Farmers got tired of waiting patiently and threatened with strike, Minister of Environment and Space, Mag. John Kopač, as part of his contribution to this television journal, made the following statement: "Unfortunately, I must say that right now, at this very moment, it seems unrealistic for us to fulfill everything that the law has promised us to do. I hope that as much as possible will be paid this year, but perhaps some part will never be paid." The Government of the Republic of Slovenia and individual ministers shall form an executive branch of the Government and shall be obliged by law to implement the laws adopted. From the point of view of the rule of law and in the Constitution of a particular constitutional order, no one, in particular the Minister, has the right to judge and decide which laws are adopted and which laws are not implemented. On the part of the rule of law, it is unacceptable that the Minister considers the adopted laws to be promises, but it is even more unacceptable that Minister of Environment and Space, Janez Kopač, announces and represents the view that, despite the adopted law, it is unrealistic to expect its implementation, in particular on this point that the law on the budget or budget of the Republic of Slovenia, which should provide these funds, has been adopted under this law. This also shows that the government coalition has adopted a number of laws in terms of promises to citizens and citizens and that, of course, it does not intend to implement them later, which is, after all, clearly written in response to the interpolation, if the law itself does not mean anything if there is no adequate budget item or budget item at sufficient level for this purpose. The fact is that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, following this statement by Minister Janez Kopač, has taken decisions on the basis of which the remaining part of the law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, hailstorms, landslides and sea-slides have also been paid to farmers. This means that at the time there were realistic options, budget options to fully implement the adopted law. On this side, therefore, the Minister's statement, in addition to the inadmissibility of the rule of law, is misleading, since despite the real financial possibilities, which it later proved, he stated in a statement otherwise and called the law a promise and implementation of the law unrealistic. We estimate he's a magician. Janez Kopač acted in violation of an oath in the National Assembly and, in ridicule of the rule of law, and granted himself discretion in respect of the implementation of the law, Article 11, of the law cited, which is clear: "The transfer of funds under this law shall be carried out by the Ministry of the Environment and Space on the basis of the decision of the Commission. In order to secure the remittance under this Law, the municipalities shall transmit to the Minister of the Environment and the Space of Acceptance and Acceptance." The legal conditions for payment are therefore clear and, of course, the Minister should also respect them. Explanation of point 2: Minister of Environment and Space Mag. We also read Janez Kopač about the conclusion of a harmful contract with Koto. By signing the contract on heat treatment of slaughterhouse waste, the Minister abused the official position or official rights and also violated the law on public finances by acting contrary to the objectives of the budget and the principles of the law [[Article 2 of the Public Finance Act]] . About 70,000 tonnes of animal waste are produced annually in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. In doing so, it should be noted that it is only 6,000 tonnes, approximately 8% of high-risk animal waste and actually needs to be heat treated in specific catheries and burned at temperatures of more than 900 degrees Celsius in incineration plants, and 8,000 tonnes of waste with a specific risk to be covered by the same treatment process as recommended. We refer to data from the Ministry of Environment and Space. Unlike other European countries, Slovenia shall not dispose of or collect waste separately on the basis of the distinction between waste at specific risk, high risk and low risk. We dispose of all waste together, which significantly increases costs. Unfortunately, nothing has been done so far, and economic damage is also being done. Regrettably, the removal in two stages, each of which represents a cost, is very uneconomic. So first we heat them, and then we burn them. According to data from the Ministry of Environment and Space, the total costs are about 60 Slovenian tolls per kilogram and are paid by Slovenia and for about 20 per cent exceed the average costs in the European Union, where these costs amount to 51 tolars per kilogram. Of course we pay, this is said in Slovenia to pay for the whole package, that is to say the scientists 80 percent of animal waste with low risk that could be processed for completely different purposes and, of course, to be used further. In Croatia, the thermal treatment calculated as tolars amounts to 16 tolars per kilogram, while in the Netherlands they know the full collection of five categories of animal waste and residues, which amounts to 28 Slovenian tolars per kilogram. The costs that will burden Slovenia directly under the Koto contract exceed 1.6 billion Slovenian tolars. Of course, no value added tax is included in this price. According to the Ministry of Finance, the price is as high due to unacceptable items such as transport costs, expected inflation, revalued deficits, capital returns and depreciation of new investments. In the structure of the total amount is only amortisation of some more than 10 million tolars or 110 million tolars. Depreciation of new investments and 395 million tolars. We refer, I point out, only to the data coming from the Ministry of Environment and Space. And, of course, directly from the contract. We would point out that in Europe they undoubtedly know cheaper ways to dispose of slaughterhouse waste, either by turning less hazardous waste into food for small animals, or by burying or composting them. Burying costs range between 6,500 and 17 thousand tolls per tonne of waste. For us, the cost of disposal of 60 000 Slovenian tolars is paid by slaughterhouses which were not even invited to negotiate with the company. Perhaps that is why some government negotiators, in negotiations with the Koto cafeteria manager, mistakenly assumed that the country was buying a product that had just lost value at the moment, which the minister himself recognises. Slovenia may therefore be forced to implement the most expensive form of disposal of animal waste, that is, heat treatment first, in accordance with the veterinary regulations, and then incineration under conditions applicable to processed animal proteins and fats from high and specific risk animal waste. Once again, I stress that it is unacceptable that a country from a position of stronger contractual partner, which can also regulate rules, will agree to a subordinate position and agree to the conditions required by the monopolies and, of course, what is not ultimately paid by slaughterhouses and, of course, also by consumers in daily meat purchases in butchers. The Minister does not deny it, but apologizes that the State has been forced to implement the most expensive form of disposal of animal waste due to Koto's monopoly and is also forced to pay the price for the heat treatment service that Koto designs and offers. Every citizen well knows that, in general, the instruments available to the State in relation to a private enterprise are very difficult to force. [[...]] However, it can happen in the event of abuse of government position or official rights, as well as inadequate and unserious work at work. We also stressed in the interpretation that the signing of the contract for heat treatment of waste due to temporary storage prior to incineration was also opposed by the Ministry of Finance, as well as by the veterinary administration, as shown in the annexes to the interpolation. It was clearly pointed out that the subject matter of the contract was not identified, nor was there a clear legal basis for the conclusion of the contract. However, the contract was concluded. In response to the completion and extension of the interpolation of 13.12.2001, the Minister emphasises that the contract has been harmonised at the level of the government. We are therefore interested in why those comments were not taken into account in the content of the Treaty itself. Calculations taken into account in the price are totally unacceptable and represent 53 per cent of the added costs, which means that the price would amount to approximately 20 tolars per kilogram of waste and not 41.5 tolars per kilogram of waste as provided for in the contract. We therefore stress that the response of Minister Kopač should be based on the calculation of costs before and after 1.12.2001. Before the occurrence of these so-called emergency conditions, the price for the same service does not provide for calculations that the finance ministry does not understand, but the price per kilogram of input raw material was about 20 tolars, and now there are at least 41.5 Slovenian tolars. Of course, at least transport costs and incineration costs still need to be added to the price, which increases costs per kilogram of waste taken over to poor 60 tolls. To facilitate the performance, it is necessary to multiply the estimated 33 tonnes of waste. Of course, all the financial burden in the final instance falls on taxpayers, on slaughterhouses and, of course, on citizens and citizens when buying meat. The harmfulness of this contract is multilayered as it allows Koto to also refuse the removal of extremely dangerous infectious waste and thereby directly endanger Slovenian livestock production and directly endanger health and a healthy environment. The behaviour of the Ministry of the Environment and Space in finding a solution to the incineration of bone meal and waste fat has also been inappropriate from the point of view of public finances and has been wasteful. The Ministry of Environment and Space concluded an export contract for these raw materials at an extremely high price, although it was clear to the experts at the time that combustion was possible on domestic energy installations. Incineration attempts have been carried out on devices that did not allow a quick solution and in environments where the computer can be used against citizens' violent opposition, and this has also been the goal of why incineration has not continued in the home environment. In short, on the basis of this harmful contract, Slovenian slaughterhouses will be affected, as these unacceptable conditions under which the Ministry concluded the contract must be taken over by them. The most important part of the negotiations is that, of course, these costs will be paid by consumers in slaughterhouses in the final stage.I hope that Slovenian taxpayers will once learn this connection between the government and between these accounts they pay daily, between the prices that are rising and between the taxes that are rising. The third point of interpretation is clear to Minister Janez Kopač of the violation of Articles 2 and 3 of the Law on the promotion of coherent regional development. Minister Mag. Janez Kopač violated articles 2 and 3 of the law on promoting coherent regional development by proposing, without any professional arguments, that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia be established as the holding company of Slovenian power plants in Ljubljana. Holding of Slovenian power plants combines Dravska, Savoska and Soške power plants, Termoelectrica Brestanica and Termoelectrica Šostanj and Premogovnik Velenje, by acquiring a chain of power plants on Drava for up to 80% of water energy in Slovenia. With the establishment of a seat in the capital, it has further encouraged already such a burning centralisation, with which Slovenia has been plagued for many years. It is also contrary to the European Charter of Local Self-Government, which guarantees and advocates polycentric development. Centralism is the main source of congestion and tension, both in economic, economic and political terms and is all-round harmful because it inhibits the faster and more balanced development of the Republic of Slovenia. The decision on the seat is very important. From the point of view of the organization of the construction of five power plants in the lower Sava stream and projects worth almost a billion marks. The whole organisation of the establishment of the holding company will also have a significant impact on who plans and implements the project. In developed countries, it is customary to establish a seat in a place where the activity takes place or where the majority of its capital is held. Based on these criteria, it should be located in Maribor and not in Ljubljana, as the Drava River chain generates 80% of water energy in Slovenia. Their revenues are the largest among the power plants and unit-produced electricity costs among the lowest among all power plants in Slovenia. The statement by Minister Janez Kopač, which he made in the Notes on 24.7.2001, is one of the main arguments regarding the decision of the seat in Ljubljana that only Ljubljana has the right cadre to manage the holding, is entirely unfounded and regrets many Slovenes and Slovenians who live throughout our country, of course. That is exactly what the Minister's thinking is all about again and always witnessing and repeating centralisation, because the story itself is complex, and where the cadre is, of course, the units of institutions where the units are, the cadre and the stories are never over. With this interpellation, we want to cut this practice, which has led to the so incompatible development of Slovenia and, of course, such a situation that some regions are at the edge of the threat to development itself and, of course, to the quality of life. I reiterate that such a statement offensive to all other regions, and especially to the Maribor region, completely ignores the professional criteria, technical, spatial and human resources arguments that were in favour of the Maribor holding company. The incompetence and inexperience of the Drava Power Plants cannot be seen as they have also successfully concluded a difficult renovation of their three power plants and started to rebuild two more power plants with depreciation money. It is unacceptable that, with all these criteria fulfilled by Maribor, they would transfer all activity to one centre, namely Ljubljana, where other seats of important institutions are already concentrated. The fact that this is a political decision and a grave violation of the law promoting coherent regional development is also illustrated by the actual indicators of this decision. In Maribor, an expert team is trained to perform holding tasks, the purchase of property in Maribor is cheaper than in Ljubljana and in Maribor is already a building that represents half the value of holding, these are the Drava power plants Maribor. In the decision on the seat of the holding company, Minister Kopač intervened and exceeded, in addition to all the actual criteria in favour of the seat in Maribor, he ignored or failed to take into account the signatures of the 52 members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and about 40,000 signatures of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who signed in favour of and support the seat of the holding company in Maribor. In this way, Minister Kopač, who has worked hard all the time and has stressed that he does not want this to be a political project, has in the final assessment identified politically and has violated existing legislation on coherent regional development. On the basis of this decision, the Minister violated the basic objectives and principles of Article 2 and Article 3 of the Law on the promotion of coherent regional development, as this decision directly led to the obstruction of a balanced economic, social and spatial dimension of development, increased differences in economic development between regions, and rejected the implementation of regional structural policy throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Next, I'm going to explain the fourth point of interpolation, which is clear to the mag. Mr Janez Kopač, Minister for the Environment and Space, misleading members of the National Assembly and the public under Article 263 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly concerning illegal private construction and in relation to violations of Articles 7, 33 and 45 of the Law on the Construction of Buildings and Article 2 of the Law on the Regulation of Settlements and Other Interventions into Space. At the hearing at the time of the nomination for the post of Minister for the Environment and Space in the home working body of the National Assembly, mag. John Kopač stated that his claim that he had waited nine years for a building permit and then began to build without him that this statement was incorrect and denied it [[the magnificence statement. Janez Kopača is attached to interpolation]] . This claim and denial is contrary to the available and publicly obtained data and documents, and means gravening not only to the public, but also to Members and Members who have decided on the Minister's appointment, and also to an extremely controversial moral act that is not worthy of trust in the Minister of Environment and Space, Mag. Janez the Digger. We justify our arguments or explanations by using the following: Mag. Janez Kopač is the Minister of Environment and Space, who is also responsible in the government for the legality of interventions into the premises and thus the legality of the works, and has violated the provisions of the laws mentioned above. At the same time, the minister is also somehow head, roofing decisions allowing the removal of black buildings in the Republic of Slovenia. Mag. Janez Kopač built a business building in Vižmarje, which he sold years ago. According to data, despite the Minister's public denial, the building still lacks a legal building permit. Although the Minister obtained a building permit and a location permit in 1989, at the beginning of the construction, he did not hold to the construction conditions of the permit or construction documentation and a valid wall plan, since the initial construction allowed the size of the house. These facts also support later complaints from neighbours, which resulted in the construction of a year later by the competent inspectorate and the construction permit being revoked. In short, the Minister has started construction on the basis of inadequate building permit, committed a violation committed by many citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia because they do not adhere, of course, to valid permits and regulations. However, as we say, the fish stinks at the head and I think the minister owes the constitution and has to do what's right under the law, and if he doesn't, he can't be a minister. On this basis, of course, Minister Kopač asked for a change in the building permit, in line with the construction started. This was not definitively changed until 1997, but because of many conflicts it is not yet legal. Also in public responses to the evidence of black construction, the Minister indirectly confirms the claim that he did not fully respect existing licences as a builder and investor. If he's a mag. Janez Kopač began to build or build in 1989, and in response to articles about his blacksmithing in the newspaper Mladina, published on 17.9.2000, he claims that the house that he stands today has been in the building plan since 1994. It is clear that the minister admits that he began to build in 1989, but on the basis of the already built building, there was a change in the building plan, which was not completed until the summer of 1994 — that is to say after the construction of the building or after the start of the construction of the building. Therefore, his statement in the Youth Week on the same day is said to be 17.9. when he says that from the foundations he has always built exclusively in accordance with the applicable building permit, misleading the public. For in the relevant permits and also in the Minister's statements it is clear that the building was built up to the first basement floor and not to the ground. According to the information, the blacksmithing is mags. Janez Kopač also admitted a deposit of 150 000 Slovenian tolars for black construction. He also acted here contrary to the law in force, which allowed legalisation, then the legalisation of black constructions, since the payment was lower then than it had required and laid down by law. Therefore, the process of legalisation for a business - residential facility should not begin at all because it did not fully pay the deposit. In this act, which happened before the Magi performed. Janez Kopač as Minister of Environment and Space is a typical example of black construction and the play of existing legislation. It's about building an object that's not in line with the building permit. He also stated several times, and thus did not deceive the public that he indirectly and, of course, indirectly confirmed black construction that he had waited nine years to obtain the building permit, but we know that the building had begun to build substantially earlier. The public is also deluded when it speaks of the fact that construction in Vižmarje is now legalized. For his difficulties in obtaining all necessary permits and as an excuse for the start of black construction, he cites bureaucracy in the issue of licences, although he would not have had these problems if, like everyone else or as required by the applicable legislation, he had respected the applicable regulations and built them in the gabarites, as specified in the building permit, in the location permit and, of course, also in the then applicable spatial-executive acts of the competent community. In point 5 of the Interpellation, the applicants are informed by the violation or violation of Article 3 of the Mining Rights Regulation by Minister Janez Kopač to the holders of the permit for exploration or extraction of mineral raw materials. Under Article 105, transitional and final provisions of the Mining Act, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia granted mining rights to holders of permits to explore or acquire mineral raw materials for exploitation of 192 legal and natural persons. To date, however, not one relationship has been regulated and not one right has been regulated by an appropriate concession contract. In point 6 or under this Regulation - I continue with point 5 - therefore, under this Regulation, the Government should conclude a concession agreement with legal and natural persons who have acquired mining rights under this Regulation within 6 months of its entry into force, otherwise this right should cease. The deadline for signing concession contracts expired on 15.5.2001. However, according to the Mining Administration, no contract with legal and natural persons who have acquired mining rights and according to the data I have today has been signed yet to conclude the process of signing these concession contracts. On 25.9.2001, the Minister of Mag. John Kopač acknowledged that concession contracts had not yet been prepared and circulated and that this violated the time limit laid down by the signing of the contracts. While the minister is late with his hand, the minister claims that this is nothing dramatic. It is once again a matter of non-compliance by the Minister for Environment and Space. I would like to point out that it will be difficult for our citizens in the Republic of Slovenia to comply with the rules, even if the ministers do not respect them, and if the ministers, in their replies, also state why they do not comply with the rules laid down in the deadlines, even though they have all the instruments, as an executive branch of the authorities, to propose an extension of the deadlines for this national assembly and, of course, if there are legitimate reasons, the Council of State would also be able to extend the period of validity or extend the deadline for the conclusion of certain contracts. Similarly, the 6th interpolation point refers to a violation of the provisions of the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava due to the abandonment, regulation of concessional relations. The Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava in Article 5, paragraph 3, provides that the concessionary relationship for the hydroelectric power plant Vrhova and the hydroelectric power plant Boštanj must be regulated by the concessionary authority of the Republic of Slovenia within six months at the latest, and the concessional relationship for the other hydropower plants within one year of the entry into force of the law cited. The concession relationship shall be governed by a concession contract concluded on behalf of the concessionaire by the concessionaire of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia by prior alignment of comments with the local community. The Act was published on 6.7.2000 and entered into force on the 15th day following its publication, which means that the one-year period in which all concession relations with hydropower plants should be regulated has long expired. No concession relationship has been regulated to date. This is said, given the fact that more than one year has passed since the entry into force of the law, not a single concessional relationship has been regulated, nor has it been fully achieved by hydroelectric Vrhovo or the Bosniak hydroelectric power plant, which should have been regulated within six months of the entry into force of the law or the relevant procedures, since it is now disputed who will actually conclude the contract with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. Article 11 of the Act on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava provides that the concessionaire shall ensure that the technical documentation and the professional basis necessary for the preparation of the first site plan is drawn up for one of the following hydropower plants no later than one year from the entry into force of the law and that the production of documentation for the preparation of each new site plan shall not take longer than one year from the last site plan adopted. The third paragraph of Article 8 of the Law provides that the applicant and the investor for the development of the local plans shall be the Ministry of Energy, the authorising officer of which shall be the concessionaire. Article 9 of the Act stipulates that the arrangements for water infrastructure and state and local infrastructure shall be implemented between 2000 and 2015. The legislator has clearly determined the dynamics of the preparation of documentation and the construction of hydropower plants on the lower Sava with the aim and also with other provisions of the law. Construction of hydroelectric power plants on the lower Sava is currently the largest such project in Europe and is important both by the state electricity policy and by the development and investment impulse to the Slovenian economy and the Posavina economy. The fact is that the candidate, the government of the Republic of Slovenia, has not yet regulated any concessional relationship, nor for the hydroelectric power plant Vrhovo and the hydroelectric power plant Boštanj. The preparation of concession contracts, as is the case with the preparation or award of new contracts, with the choice of a new concessionaire, is also unclear. So the project, this largest project in Europe, is lagging behind, which is entirely for the responsibility of the Energy Minister, this is Minister Janez Kopač, and, of course, also for the failure to meet legal obligations. I would like to point out that, since there is no regulated concessional relationship for any of the hydropower plants on the Lower Sava, other provisions of the law which determine the dynamics of the preparation of documents and the construction of other hydropower plants on the Lower Sava have been violated. One of the most obvious violations is the non-implementation of the third paragraph of Article 11, in conjunction with the third paragraph of Article 8, because there is no site plan for the Bosniak hydroelectric power plant, which should be drawn up no later than one year after the implementation of the law on the conditions of concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the lower Sava. Due to the lobbying of various, both political and, of course, economic structures, the Minister has not yet decided to grant the concession to - the concession is granted to the Sava power plants - the Minister believes, and the government's conclusions are that the Sava power plants are not able to make these investments. Therefore, in more than one year after these decisions, the Minister has not yet found a new one, he has not yet found a suitable one and thus takes over violations of the law and also failure to implement the most important projects. At the 7th interpolation point, and therefore at the last interpolation point, which was also the subject of interpolation solutions, Minister Janez Kopač, we see the procedure for preparing a site plan for the rehabilitation and reinstallation of the Mosta hydropower plant, contrary to the decision on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia, secondly, the decree on the declaration of pores, wetlands and rare plants in the municipality of Bled, Article 41 of the Law on the regulation of settlements and other interventions in the area, Articles 1, 3, 51, 53 and 54 of the Law on Environmental Protection, 96 of the Law on the Conservation of Nature and the Energy Protocol, the Protocol on the Protection of Nature and Environmental Care and the Protocol on the regulation of Space and Sustainable Development - these are the protocols of the Alpine Convention. In the Sava power plant project on the restoration and upgrading of the Mosta hydroelectric power plant, which is under the responsibility of Minister Janez Kopač, a compensatory and compensatory pool is planned to flood the Sava Valley between Vrbo and Bled for about two kilometres, destroying about 39 hectares of one of the longest unspoiled sections of the Sava Valley. The second artificial lake on the upper Sava, where water would fluctuate even four meters [4 m] and be only two kilometers [2 km] from the center of Bled. The Sava Valley is one of the longest unspoiled sections of the Sava River. In the area envisaged for the sinking, the river is classified in the first to second classes. The anticipated new barrier would completely cut off the Triglav National Park family's longest river from the Sava River. On 28 June 2000, the Municipality Council of Bled addressed a government proposal for a site plan for the rehabilitation and installation of the Moste hydropower plant on the basis of a decision on public decommissioning, a draft site plan for the rehabilitation and rehabilitation of the Moste hydropower plant, a proposal for amendments and addition of spatial components. The Municipal Council adopted a decision rejecting a government proposal for intervention in a protected part of the area and rejecting the consideration of the remainder of the amendment proposal and the completion of the planned acts of the Municipality of Bled. Furthermore, in the first point of the preparation process for the site plan for the hydroelectric bridge, there is a discrepancy or non-conformity in the regulation or in the fact that the location plan regulation is not in line and is contrary to the spatial plan of the Republic of Slovenia. The overall location plan should be prepared taking into account spatial components based on a decision on changes and additions to spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia, together with cartographic work which does not adequately define the rehabilitation and reinstallation of the Moste hydroelectric power plant. The Minister's reply shows that the sign for the planned hydroelectric bridge is specified according to the rules of the thematic cartography. However, it cannot be claimed from this sign that it is a matter of rehabilitation and installation of the Mosta hydropower plant, since this is not also evident in the cartographic part of the decree. We can no doubt conclude that the legal basis stated by the originator of the site plan, that it is neither in the text or in the graphic part nor shows nor identifies the rehabilitation and re-installation of the bridge hydroelectric power plant and that, on the basis of these facts, the Ministry of Environment and Space should also put an end to the adoption of the regulation of the site plan and repeal the decision on public decomposition. It will also be very clear that the procedures for the adoption of the site plan have already been intensive when the procedure for the adoption of the spatial plan was adopted during the adoption phase of the National Assembly and when the decree on the declaration of pores, marshes and rare plants in the Municipality of Bled has already been adopted. This is also recognised by the Ministry in response to the intervention. On the basis of these facts, the Ministry has initiated procedures for the adoption of a local plan without any legal basis in the planning documents. Secondly, the location plan for the rehabilitation and installation of the Moste hydroelectric power plant is contrary to the decree on the declaration of pores, marshes and rare plants in the municipality of Bled. The envisaged location plan intervenes in the area of the bustle of Bře, which is secured as a natural monument. Due to rare and endangered plant, animal and natural phenomena, the Municipality Council of Bled adopted a decree proclaiming the birthplaces, swamps and vegetation of rare plants in the municipality of Bled, on the basis of which the area was declared a natural monument. Half of the protected area in the Breje basin, the entire flat part of which is approximately 17 hectares, is intended for sinking due to the compensation pool. Article 4 provides that the protection regime in the declared areas shall be prohibited, inter alia, from carrying out the following activities: carrying out land works, roads, infrastructure installations, buying-in or filling the ground, building any facility and premises, carrying out construction work regulation, adopting water regime and ground water level and altering existing vegetation. The implementation of the construction of the Moste hydroelectric power plant is therefore legally not possible without a prior amendment of the insurance acts, namely the decree on the declaration of sources, wetlands and rare plants in the municipality of Bled, which is also noted by the Ministry of Environment and Space. It is important that the Municipality of Bled adopted a Wetland Insurance Order in accordance with the ratification of the International Convention prior to the adoption of the decision amending and supplementing the plan document. In the third part, the procedure for adopting the site plan is contrary to Article 41 of the Law on the regulation of settlements and other interventions into the premises. The current procedure for the adoption of the site plan is contrary to Article 41 of the Law on the regulation of settlements and other interventions to the premises which lays down the order in which planning acts are adopted. In a specific case, a preparation programme for the development of the site plan was first adopted in 1998. In 1999, however, a decree amending the planning documents. This is said to be a decree on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia. It follows that the preparation programme is not legal because it was adopted but did not have the appropriate legal basis to do so. In response, the Ministry of Environment and Space claims that the procedure for the preparation of the site plan is carried out in accordance with Article 45 of the Law on the regulation of settlements and deposits into a space which is otherwise subject to the procedures for the preparation and adoption of the site plan and the issuance of permits for the construction of motorways and infrastructure facilities of State importance. However, these provisions only provide for procedures for the preparation and adoption of location plans on the basis of a long-term or medium-term plan previously adopted. In doing so, it should be noted once again that the Minister of Environment and Space has established a site plan for the rehabilitation and re-installation of the Bridge 2.2.1998, and that the decree on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term plan has only been adopted on 22.1.1999, i.e. thereafter. In view of the irregularity in the adoption of the site plan, the competent minister should stop all proceedings and initiate them in accordance with the law. The fourth point provides for an intervention, which is said to be an intervention contrary to Articles 1, 3, 51 and 53 of the Environmental Protection Act. These articles set environmental protection objectives, adequately prepare the environmental vulnerability study, set the level of environmental protection and set a comprehensive assessment of the impact on the acceptability of planned solutions. The Ministry only acknowledges in its reply that the content and methodology for the production of studies have not yet been prescribed and therefore the full assessment is not yet being carried out. The European Union has adopted a directive on environmental assessments of the planning documents in more than half a year, but it has not been possible for the Ministry, under this Directive, to lay down the content and methodology of the study for a comprehensive environmental impact assessment provided for in Article 54 of the Environmental Protection Act. The draft local plan also did not take into account the decision of the Municipality of Jesenice of the 40th meeting of the Municipal Council of 23.4.1998, which states that a variant with a rise of the interlocking level is to be adopted, provided that all facilities and installations which would have been damaged by this intervention are re-checked and that the contracting authority of the site plan ensures normal operation for all, including after the rise of the accumulation level at the Mosta hydroelectric power plant The draft document states that a nullity should be established in the territory of the Slovenian Javornik, monitoring the condition of the height and quality of the soil and on the basis of the findings of the implementation of the necessary safeguards. It is unacceptable that the measurements of groundwater conditions are just running to wait for high water, that the mathematical simulation model is not yet ready, while the location plan is already being developed. The affected population whose safety and property are at risk cannot be identified for intervention if there are no relevant studies on the intended effects and consequences of the infringement. The problem is therefore multilayered, as it is a mixture of the effects of increased groundwater, stale water and surface water. The rehabilitation of endangered dwellings should also be included in the location plan, and a way of protecting facilities from groundwater intrusion, capillary moisture, sewage pollution, drinking water pollution and floods should also be established. It is further noted that the operation of the hydropower plant is also envisaged in contravention of section 96 of the Nature Conservation Act. Article 96 states that nature interventions must be planned, planned and implemented in such a way as not to distort nature. In the procedures for planning the use or exploitation of natural goods and the management of premises, the competent national or local authority must choose that decision which, in the event of approximately equal effects, meets the criterion of least possible interference with nature and, in the case of alternative technical possibilities for the execution of an infringement, does not distort nature. Such measures shall not be taken into account for natural monuments, of course, and for natural areas, as indigenous and protected species of animals live in the area. Substitute habitats cannot replace in any way the complexity, diversity and natural dynamics of this area. In this area, at least 33 species of endangered species in the Republic of Slovenia are protected. However, the nature value of the Sava Valley between Vrbo and Bled is not only in rare endangered plant and animal species and groups, valleys due to exceptionalness, typicalness, complexity, diversity and conservation, as nature protection is increasingly moving from protecting species to protecting higher ecological units, landscapes and processes in them. A balancing pool would destroy all the above-mentioned quality areas. Finally, the location plan for the rehabilitation and installation of the Moste hydropower plant is contrary to the Energy Protocol, the Protocol on Nature Protection and Environmental Care and the Protocol on Space and Sustainable Development, which is the Alpine Convention. The International Commission for the Protection of the Alps, CAPRA, warned Minister Kopač, the letter was sent to the Minister on 2 February 2001 that he had violated three protocols of the Alpine Convention, namely the Energy Protocol, the Protocol on the Protection of Nature and Environmental Care and the Protocol on the Regulation of Space and Sustainable Development. Given that Slovenia is a party to the Alpine Convention, the Minister must respect those protocols. Bled hosted 4th in October 2001. European Regional Conference on the Protection of Wetlands, which also highlighted the problem. At this conference, participants took action against such interventions as envisaged by the Ministry of Hydropower Bridge, and it is therefore essential that the project envisaged be withdrawn from the reception process. In this part, I wanted to present to the Members and Members and, of course, to the Slovenian public a number of reasons which speak of the eligibility of the 24 Members and Members' request for the responsibility of Minister Janez Kopač and, of course, of the resignation or discharge of Minister Janez Kopač. In view of the sentiments offered, the Prime Minister himself should probably have, or was obliged, to resolve the Minister on a short journey and, of course, to appoint a new one, as was the case yesterday, a minister who is non-conflict and who will take professional care of the issue of environmental and spatial regulation in the Republic of Slovenia. Minister Janez Kopač is probably a very good and valued financial expert. However, the area of the environment and space does not lie and it is treated only through its black construction, which he has tried to legalise, so the solutions take place in a non-professional manner, the solutions take all the time and non-systemic. We think that Slovenia deserves a better minister for the environment and space. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u3	Thank you very much for your explanation of the interpretation, colleague mag. A visor. I now give the floor to the Minister for Environment and Space, Mag. Janez Kopach to respond to the charges of interpolation. You have the floor, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u4	Thank you very much. A respected choir! I reject all claims made by interpolation applicants about irregularities and even the illegalities that they are supposed to have committed in their work. I have been in this Parliament for nearly 11 years to realize that interpellation is primarily a political action that tries to weaken the minister and the government, which, with your months of media pressure, you do not want to harm the regular part of the ministry - unfortunately - and which ultimately has a particular claim on its basis. Now we've heard them. Such claims in interpolation in general are often disputed with the truth, and there are many of them even in this interpolation. But we stand in Parliament, which must be a serious institution for the benefit of citizens and citizens. And I am sure that the majority of this House still listens to the reasoned debate. Therefore, I must deny the unrealistic claims made by the interpolation investors. Out of respect for Parliament, we have already done this in writing in an extremely extensive form at the Ministry and delivered it to you. However, since it has been a few months since the intervention was made and has been answered, allow me to summarize the answer very briefly once again. Interpellators have shown me no enforcement of the law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, storms with hail, landslides, etc. The basis for the implementation of laws, not just that, including all other laws, of course, which require certain budgetary resources, is the available financial resources, which are defined in the budget or in the law on the implementation of the budget, which is also adopted by this Parliament. Last year's budget reserve has served to cover the obligations under the five intervention laws of recent years, and from eliminating the consequences of the earthquake to finally eliminating the effects of the drought. The total obligation under these five intervention laws of anger of 10 billion tolars was approximately above the available resources. In particular, the drought is largely due to the fact that the previous government, before the elections in autumn 2000, failed to meet the legal obligation to remedy the effects of the drought. However, I must say that all the funds to remedy the effects of the drought in 2000 were provided in last year with transfers from other items. I also reject the argument made by the interpolation investors that the Ministry took advantage of the situation after the outbreak of mad cow disease in Europe - at the time it was not in Slovenia - to sign a contract for the processing of slaughterhouse waste, which, according to interpolation investors, allows the company Koto to make monopolistic profits. In fact, the ban on the use of bone flour in Europe also required in Slovenia when we were in the first days of the new government, fast and effective action. Preventive action on the occurrence of BSE disease should be ensured, while avoiding potential meat processing delays and the possible emergence of too high direct costs for slaughterhouses. At that time, in December and January, December 2000 and January 2001, all Slovenian livestock and thousands of jobs in the meat processing industry were at risk. Slovenia or the Slovenian Government followed the European Union's requirements and recommendations when acting. Fortunately, it has been so many months since the intervention of the European Union has passed so quickly that we have received a very good international confirmation of the appropriateness of our conduct in the form of a special inspection, a veterinary inspection of the European Union, after the first case of mad cow disease has occurred in us. At the moment, Slovenia is itself able to dispose of these wastes, in accordance with regulations that are all harmonised with European Union legislation. Since about 15,000 tons of high and specific risk animal waste is produced annually in Slovenia - these are specific wastes within all slaughterhouse waste - the country immediately ensured their disposal in a prescribed, health and environment-friendly manner, which means that they are first treated heat and then sterilized and later burned. For this reason, within the framework of the measures, it has purchased capacity in the only suitable cafeteria in our country for these purposes. The price negotiations, which are supposed to provide extra profits to Koto, have caused even a shorter delay in the implementation of certain measures, precisely because of our counter-measures. However, the proposal for a contract with Koto was unanimously accepted by the Government. The price should be seen as a rental for the entire cafeteria, not as a payment for a kilogram or a tonne of bone meal, as some commentators do, since flour is no longer available to sell or flour is no longer goods to be traded with. On the other hand, there is additional evidence of the correctness of our action: low-risk slaughterhouse waste, which is largely covered by the government rule in the mandatory economic public service among all slaughterhouses. This means that all slaughterhouses today can at any time process most of their waste elsewhere and not only at existing prices of Koto, but no slaughterhouse has done so so far. The basis for the negotiations with Koto was an analysis of the costs of this service in the European Union countries. This analysis also shows that Slovenian costs of collecting, transport and heat treatment of animal waste are within the price class of European countries. In a relatively short time, the processing of heat treatment products, i.e. bone-meat flour and fat in domestic combustion plants, was also ensured in Šostanje, where all the conditions of complete combustion are met, are necessary to prevent excessive emissions. Interpellators at the following point read out a violation of the law on the promotion of coherent regional development because I proposed to the government the seat of the Slovenian power plant holding company in Ljubljana. It is unusual, however, that interpellation investors as a violation of the law define the fact that the Minister proposes something that is within his competence. Of course, there's no violation of the law. Many times - and this time briefly again - I have justified my proposal. The seat is usually where the main business activity is. The main business activity of the holding company is a joint performance of electricity producers on the market, and this function was performed by the end of last year in the public company Eles, which is in Ljubljana.Holding has taken over this activity and also the staff only. All the new business activities that no one has done at the level of Slovenian energy so far are located outside Ljubljana, within the holding company. Mostly in Maribor, partly in Velenje and Nova Gorica. The activities are arranged so that the personnel from the electricity system with a job in holding are optimally exploited or that the knowledge is optimally used, which is across Slovenia, because we all do not have very large Holding will have the prospects of about 75 employees, virtually all from existing electricity companies, of which a large majority in Styria, more specifically in Maribor and Velenj. There is a service located in Maribor for the operation of all Slovenian power plants combined in holding. In Maribor, the maintenance sector of all Slovenian power plants - now according to the new - is the sector of investment in Slovenian energy. The system of control of all Slovenian power plants has been transferred to Maribor from Ljubljana - this has already been the case. In Maribor, the Department for Strategic Energy Development is located within the holding company. And that's where the head of the technical holding company is located. And finally, in the New Maribor Credit Bank in Maribor is a jury holding account. Holding Slovenian power plants is, in my deep belief, a great gain for Maribor. I regret the attempt to categorize individual citizens who have tried to enforce some local policies in public to abuse my statements. But if I go back to my interpretation of my contribution to inconsistent regional development, I have to say this. Holding is not a political body - nor is it at least a state-government body, but it is a company. The decision on the head office of the holding cannot be considered in the context of decentralisation or consistent regional development. On the other hand, it is true that I am the first minister to have located his ministry in two locations in Ljubljana and Maribor, and that in Maribor there are exactly half, this is more the case, of all employees in the Ministry of Environment and Space, in the field of energy -that is, the Ministry has three offices within the Office of Energy. The Ministry of Environment and Space is today the only ministry located in Maribor, in addition to the department of the former Ministry of Small Economy. Interpellation in point 4 also refers to concession contracts with mining rights holders under Article 105 of the Mining Act, which should therefore be "signed by 15 May last year". And, further, the interpolation investors say, "Because the contracts are not signed, however, they have an impact on the loss of budgetary revenue under this heading." I understand that interpellation investors have run out of evidence material. But you must understand that on 15 May last year, I was only 17 days in the formal minister responsible for mining, and I did not deliver from the previous ministry until June. Which is why, of course, I find it difficult to read the date of May 15th last year. However, decisions on the amount of the 2001 concession fee shall be issued in 2002 and the 2001 payment obligation shall take place in 2002. And let me inform you that all indisputable contracts with concessionaires, about 180 of them, have already been signed. And that, of course, all the decisions will be issued in February of last year. The interpretation point, which speaks of the construction of my house at the beginning of the 1990s, does not refer to conduct during the ministerial term and cannot therefore be debated on the basis of the Minister's work and responsibility. Nevertheless, I answered this statement in writing with a detailed chronology of events since 1986, when I bought a construction plot, until 1997, when I sold the house. Once again, the house was built with a valid building permit. With regard to the delays in the legal deadlines for the regulation of concessions for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava, which is evident to me by the interpolation investors, I must first explain that the concession was granted by decision to the company of the Sava Power Plant on 9 November 2000 at the time of the Bajuk Government. The condition or deadline for the conclusion of the contract was 10 days from the issue of the decision, i.e. 19 November 2000. The then competent minister was therefore Dr. Zagozhen, Jože Zagozhen. So, the interpolation investors are reading something that Dr. Joza Zagozhen didn't do. However, since the Sava Power Plants were unable to make investments throughout the chain, last February the government, when I was not yet Minister of Energy, called on Savaska, Dravska and Sočska Power Plants to prepare a joint innovative investment design. At the time of consideration of this joint new investment design, the government commissioned hydropower companies to organise and capitalise on the holding for construction. The text of the concession contract is currently harmonised and refers to the construction of the entire chain on the lower Savi. At the end of July last year, a holding company was set up to implement this major project, which is responsible for the implementation of this project by the government. Notwithstanding the fact that it is not possible to issue a single authorisation for the implementation of the preparatory works for the Bosniak hydroelectric power plant until the concession contract is concluded, the competent services of the Ministry of the Environment and the premises conduct the procedure smoothly, a water-based agreement has been issued, a public hearing has been carried out, no, and it is realistic that the investment will start this autumn. Interpellation investors also report to me the illegality of handling the process of preparing a site plan for the rehabilitation and installation of the Mosta hydroelectric power plant, which is, therefore, to me, the illegality of the procedure that started four years ago, that is, in 1998. In the last year, but since I am Minister, a proposal for a location plan has been prepared entirely in accordance with spatial legislation. So far, there has been no professional or legal basis for the termination of the site plan procedure, since the initiator of the preparation, the Sava power plant, has consistently expressed the eligibility of the project, which has not been rejected or verified, which has served as an additional professional basis, or the reviews carried out. Thus, an expert analysis of the state of play in the event of the abandonment of the Mosta hydroelectric power plant was prepared. So what would happen if we didn't go to build it, with essential arguments "for" and "against" and with an assessment of the financial burden for the country if we didn't go into this project. The analysis has shown that due to the floating of the terrain near the existing hydroelectric power plant Moste is critical and the facility is facing an emergency stop. There is a real possibility that this will occur before the completion of the procedure for drawing up the site plan. Therefore, a proposal for remedial and compensatory measures laid down by the Nature Conservation Act has been prepared, but since, without the amendment of the municipal Wetland Insurance Decision, the adoption of the location plan is not possible, any evidence of illegal conduct due to the very process of preparation of the plan is also totally incomprehensible. Finally, I have to comment on today's publication of a story in newspapers that suggests that my wife should benefit from the Drava power plant. I've known this hint for two months. And those who planned the publication right now, counting on some current effect, themselves prove that these findings are just unfounded instigation. When I first heard about this suggestion, in November of the month, the Ministry requested a report on the matter from the Drava Power Plants, and it follows from the report that Drava Power Plants placed liquidity surpluses with over 60 contracts in different financial institutions, one of them was a leasing company where my wife, who is neither owner nor co-owner, was a leasing company. Well, and it was to this company that they loaned the money at the highest interest rate of all, i.e. the most favourable for Drava power plants and the loan was first-class secured. I did not know or intervene in this business relationship between the two companies. It is certainly not disputed, however, because it is a normal operation of the Drava Power Plants. I thank you, honourable Members and Members, for your attention. I hope that the debate will be more about things and less about individuals and that citizens and citizens will be able to come to a better understanding of the problems the Ministry of Environment and the place they say is the most conflicting ministry, as it must constantly seek consensus between environmental protection requirements and the demands for space interventions. Complex problems do not allow black and white solutions. And I would very much like to be able to demonstrate through the debate our efforts to ensure sustainable development, which led the work of our ministry. I and the four Secretaries of State, as my closest associates, are at your disposal for your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for responding to the content of the interpretation. I was informed that the Prime Minister, Dr. Janez Drnovšek, would also like to speak. He wants a word, Mr. Prime Minister? You have the floor. You will be followed by representatives of the parliamentary groups. You have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u6	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The government has identified itself to the proposal for interpolation and has concluded that there is no valid reason to replace Minister Kopač. I myself, as Prime Minister, have this opinion. I would like to point out that the ministry run by Minister Kopač is very largely, very difficult for us to subsequently attach to it the area of energy, which he then had to integrate into the ministry and implement all appropriate measures, including reorganisation, and that together with the environment, space, spatial regulation, of course, and energy, this represents a very large and important ministry. According to my assessment, Minister Kopač is working well, very hard in the government to make significant moves, for example in preparing legislation to regulate space, because it is a considerable rationalisation that will accelerate housing construction. One of the priorities I support and where Minister Kopač is very involved is that of housing construction, how to get as many homes as possible, especially for young people, and in this we are working on different instruments and ways to achieve this goal. There are, of course, activities and regulations, regulation of the European Union rules on environmental protection and, of course, the whole field of energy, including by amending the rules, reorganisation, including the adoption of European rules. In short, it is an extremely extensive work that Minister Kopač is now doing for about a year, a few months less, i.e. also in the field of energy. At that time, I think the fuck was done a lot. Perhaps Minister Digger made a mistake here and there. Everyone makes it, especially the one who does a lot of work. In fact, one can or usually make more than one who does little or nothing and is primarily avoiding being offended or perhaps making a mistake. In short, I think, when weighing all these positive achievements and also any indication, I think that they have a lot of positive results. I am convinced that Minister Kopač has already taken up the relevant experience and also those messages that need to be taken into account in further work from the entire public debate, even before and at the time of interpolation, and finally today. However, at this point in time, change in this ministry would mean a significant problem for the government, a stalemate, because things have now come to an end, and, of course, then a halt to this and a re-establishment at that time would be a waste of time, a loss of pace and also a stalemate on some of the key projects that the government is leading in this area. As far as the eyewitnesses and critics concerned Minister Kopač himself are concerned, I think he just replied to them and will be, and he would not have let himself down as Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister. Thus, we have only now heard the position of the President and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the interpretation put forward. Now we will hear the views of the parliamentary groups represented in the National Assembly in order. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of New Slovenia, colleague Alojz Sok, on behalf of the Group of the Socialist Party, colleague Janez Janša, on behalf of the Group of the Party of Youth Slovenia, colleague Igor Štemberger, on behalf of the Group of Members of DeSUS, colleague Kebrič, on behalf of the Group of the United List of Social Democrats, colleague Janko Weber, on behalf of the SLS Group, colleague Janez Podobnik, on behalf of the Group of the Slovenian National Party of Pec. First of all, on behalf of the LDS Group, colleague Anderlič, this will also conclude the presentations on the positions of the groups. I now give the floor to my colleague Sok to present the views of the New Slovenia Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u8	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear fellow Members and Members, Honourable Prime Minister, Honourable Ministers and other Members of the Government. So, like the minister against whom the interpretation is filed, of course, Mr Kopač also rejected all the allegations. In an extensive text written on the 67 pages of the A4 format, he described everything that appeared to him and, as it is said, said here: I am not guilty of anything. All of this was carried out on the best of conscience. By the way, Parliament - I wrote it down - somehow suggested that "the Parliament must be a serious institution". I have to tell him that Parliament would not actually be a serious institution if I allowed it and didn't see what our ministers are doing. I think a lot of this has been said here in this interpretation, of which we are also a party to Nova Slovenije. Of course, it is the matter of Mr Kopač's person to take these matters seriously or not seriously, the Prime Minister, as I could understand, assessed them as minor errors; and it is the Minister who works hard. As far as the first one is concerned, I would say, the accusations concerning his statement that there is no need to respect all the laws adopted and to fulfil everything that some law promises, in the spirit of the oath of ministers here before Parliament, is extremely controversial. Of course, it would be best if the Minister, when he said it, immediately for this statement of apology - no, he went some other way and began to explain that at that point the budget had not yet been adopted, that the budget reserve had not been adopted. It later turned out that, under the pressure of the drought in 2001, and especially under the pressure of the farmers' unions, the government had only had to correct this error and the funds provided by the law in 2000 had to be paid definitively. Well, here, Mr. Minister also attributed part of the blame for the unpaid funds to the Bajuk government. By the way, let me remind Slovenia and Slovenia that they were in October of the elections and that the government of Dr Andrej Bajuk did not have the authority after that date to redistribute the funds and to implement the commitments that had been made, but that the new government in November and December had to do so. However, if we leave aside this Minister's statement that it is not necessary to respect all laws and fulfil all promises, this statement seems somehow to me in the context of, I would say, political statements whether the government and its ministers are aware of the issues of our Slovenian agriculture, particularly when Slovenia enters the European Union. This is how they say that, in fact, the integration of Slovenia into the European Union will depend on the adaptation of Slovenian agriculture. On the other hand, I wonder if, under any other law, the Minister would have hoped to say so publicly that no law would have to be enforced. Would I hope to say that there is no need to enforce a collective agreement, for example, for which there is a strong union or someone like that? I still think that we are solving the agricultural issue in our Slovenia inadvertently, that we are not preparing our Slovenian farmers for entry into the European Union and that we may actually have a big surprise in this area in 2004. Look, the average farm size in the European Union, I say the average farm size, is over 18 hectares. In Slovenia it is less than 5 hectares - 4.8. Are the restructuring processes of Slovenian agriculture satisfactory? We have a list of complementary activities written down, but unfortunately they don't apply. If anyone wants to restructure one of the farms, if he wants to introduce some new complementary activity, if he wants to get to the irrigation on his farm, he needs two dozen permits, and then he still finds out he's missing two or three when he wants to get to the end. Our agriculture, in addition to the natural stings, droughts, then colds, floods, also destroys the game: in Kočev the bear, in Počev the deer and elsewhere the deer, all over Prekmurje it is joined by wild pigs and I do not know what else. This country does not react or react very slowly to all these matters. The rural area is empty due to inequity in agriculture, labour is leaving. There are elderly farmers in the countryside, which somehow - I will say - with despair and discomfort accompany these processes in Slovenia. We said recently that we have about 90,000 farm households in Slovenia, but only 64,000 have run for direct aid this year and last year. This means, from the last census in 1991 to today, we have lost over 30,000 agricultural operators. Will this government order him to continue these processes, or will he use statements such as Mr. Minister's ridding himself of the fact that all laws do not need to be fulfilled when it comes to the agricultural issue, or will such dilemmas encourage some of the processes that occur in this public? How can we read daily in the newspaper that the budget for agriculture is a bottomless bag; we can read that the farmer's lobby is striving for as many resources as possible, then that farmers are not in a deprived position and so on. Here in Parliament, in my interview with some Members, I have learned that the agricultural part of the budget should also include pensions received by older farmers today, that all the money given by the State for agricultural schools should also be included. One of the MPs even told me from the ruling coalition: for as much money as Slovenia gives for the agricultural budget, we could buy food for all Slovenes.I ask you if such thinking is appropriate and if it belongs to someone in this national assembly? Despite the Minister's statement that there is no need to respect the laws, last year the State paid or paid all the damages that the Law on the Elimination of the Effects of Drought provided for the year 2000. However, I am interested in the fact that in 2001, we experienced drought-like droughts in 2000 or even a little more difficult to estimate the damage caused by drought in 2001. According to the law we passed last November in this Parliament, the Ministry of the Environment and Space should prepare a final report on drought in 2001. We have not seen this report before in this National Assembly of the Committee on Agriculture. I would like to know whether the government has enforced this law by devoting 8% of the estimated value of damage to clean farms in 2001? How should I do this when the damage has not yet been fully assessed - at least as far as I know? This and many other burdens our Slovenian agriculture. In the first place, non-competitiveness, low prices, while prices of repromaterials and everything else increase. For example, yesterday the government raised the cost of telephony by 20% and petrol, fuels, artificial fertilisers, compound feeds, everything accompanying the agricultural sector is growing steadily and slowly, while the price of agricultural products is constantly falling and agricultural prices continue to grow. Farmers were thus given 26 tolars per kilogram of farmed wheat last year, while the price of the cheapest bread cost more than ten times that. Where such a agricultural policy leads us, you can judge for yourself. It is also clear to the Minister that, in the course of the implementation of the Law on Reparation for Drought in 2000, he himself changed the criteria for the payment of damages. The minister denies it. This is prescribed for the government which was before him and for the Commission to assess the damage. I wonder if the Commission can assess the damage to such competence that it can change the rules of the game. In our area, farmers were thus given conclusions in 2000 on the final assessment of drought damage. Then, on June 29, 2001, this was strong in the mandate of the Minister, they received some adjusted conclusions in which their assessment of the damage was reduced by more than 20 times. I have before me a conclusion that first granted damages to a injured person amounting to 278,000 tolars and 29.6.2001 received the conclusion that his injury was estimated at 8,700 tolars. So, is it appropriate in a legally regulated country to make fun of beneficiaries in this way? At the same time, on 20.3.2001, the same beneficiary was granted a decision by the tax administration of the Republic of Slovenia in which he is recognised for damages of 26 % and a few percent, and his contributions to pension and disability insurance are also reduced in the same percentage. As has already been said, the Minister attributed this to someone else, not to himself, in the last part, in response to the apparent inconsistencies in the implementation of the aid by drought, he wrote - I will only read one sentence in this paragraph: For the basis of the allocation of State aid to the affected municipalities, the final allocation of the funds was up to the fifth - until the fifth - total damage, including damage of less than 30 per cent. Once again, this was the case according to his statement up to the fifth, the last allocation of funds. After this allocation, the criteria changed and the beneficiaries received new corrected injury assessment decisions, as I said earlier. As far as his second act is concerned: non-treatment with meat - bone meal. I am very sorry, therefore, that the President of the Slovenian Government considers this matter to be a minor flaw, as it is clear from all the documentation we have received that Mr Minister signed the contract in January 2001 despite the opposition of the Ministry of Finance. While it is true that a government regulation had already been adopted, the Regulation on the manner in which objects and conditions for the economic operation of the public service of heat treatment of slaughterhouse waste and infectious material of animal origin, which in its Article 2 defines slaughterhouse waste and infectious material of animal origin - that is to say, it gives rise to the same category. Thus, this is the first major error of this provision, which has not classified slaughterhouse waste in two or three categories, such as lower-risk slaughterhouse waste and higher-risk slaughterhouse waste. If they did so in this order, the costs of this slaughterhouse treatment would be much lower, as 80% of slaughterhouse waste could be processed in different methods than are being processed today. Today, however, all slaughterhouse waste is processed using a sterilisation method, which is significantly more expensive than it would have been, and which is not actually available to any country in the European Union. Let me remind you that even a much richer country than Slovenia - greater by agriculture and livestock, England, slaughterhouse waste and the dead cadaver buried and disposed of this material in such a way. It is also a major flaw in this Regulation that the field of slaughterhouse waste management has only partially been addressed by this Regulation. She only solved the conversion to bone-meat flour, whereas she did not settle the issue of incineration, i.e. the final destruction of bone-meat flour. It is explicitly stated in Article 3 that this Regulation does not provide for the issue of definitive removal, namely incineration. And it is also, of course, that under this provision was signed the Prime Minister, Dr Janez Drnovšek, and the regulation, as such, was, of course, the basis for the composition of the contract. I ask the Minister, who himself acknowledged in his reply to the interpolation, that because of the European Union's actions in time, and that Koto unilaterally took advantage of this position and turned matters into his own, so he actually became a multimonopolist, as regards the treatment of slaughterhouse waste, I ask him why, in December, when he addressed the issue of the disposal of slaughterhouse waste and other infectious material, he said cadavrov why he did not use a professional team; why only a representative of the economic-interest association participated in this process, namely, the economic interest association represented the Director of Kota, which, of course, led matters in such a way that he had the greatest benefit of Koto. I ask him why he did not take advantage of the possibility, but when we have three cafés in Slovenia, next to the d.o.o. As well as poultry ptuj and beer. While it is true that these two Cafileries are much smaller, if we decided to separate waste collection, we could also approach a different solution to the problem. I ask him why he did not use in the world of recognised and cheaper forms of disposal of animal waste, such as sterilisation. At the final stage, it was already said in the interpolation that there is an alternative to composting or also in the final sequence of burial. I'm asking him why he didn't look at the issue of bone-meat-incineration in a different way. With his experiments, I can tell you, he was more or less burning people in these centers where flour could be burned. It is known why - in Anhove due to asbestos, in other thermal power plants due to increased SO2 concentration and so on. I ask him why the government has not considered that bone-meat flour, but, of course, fat, would be used as energy fuel, as it is known that the energy value of bone-meat flour is at least twice the size of the giant lignite. In short, in our conviction, Mr Minister, with all that he has left unanswered all these questions, has put this government in a position when his Secretary of State had to sign a treaty with Kota that has brought Kota into a privileged position. It says that the price of 60 SIT per kilogram of slaughterhouse waste processing is appropriate and in the same text it says that the price in other countries is 43 in Italy, 53 in Austria, 52 in Germany, as if 10 tolars or no longer represents a significant difference. Of course, Mr Minister or Government then transferred all these costs to our slaughterhouse industry on August 1st, and, of course, the slaughterhouse industry, as a result, to the consumer and to the manufacturer. We are therefore back in the final phase on the issue of agriculture. The cost incurred by the minister and the government with him is, I would say, directly on the shoulders of our farmers. In this contract, we also acknowledge that the contract is incomplete, because the contract is written so that Koto can force this country at any time, and this happened on 17 September when Koto refused to remove slaughterhouse waste due to late payment. This is because it is a particularly dangerous waste because it is possible to carry animal infectious diseases, of course, the Ministry of Agriculture immediately agreed to the payment and the amount of outstanding claims, which was then paid under this contract only 15 days after the invoice was issued, also immediately. The Minister may state at this point that he did not sign this contract, but this does not, in fact, exclude him from the context of the obligation. In fact, the government acted very irresponsiblely in this matter, in our opinion. In point 3, the Minister, mag. Digger, there is a clear violation of the implementation of the law on coherent regional development. We are aware that consistent regional development is not just where the holding office will be. In a coherent regional development, in fact - so these violations fall first - I would say - the consistent implementation of this law adopted by the National Assembly. Then a different transport policy, as governed by this government, because we know and already at this meeting we will have a change in the financing of the construction of the Slovenian motorway programme. We know that the construction of the Slovenian motorway programme went completely beyond the context of the programme, which was adopted in the National Assembly. Here are the various rural development aids that will not continue to empty as is happening today; the different forms of tax policy that this government does not even tackle. Then it's a question of tourism development. Tourism is not just a development in Bled and Portorož. Tourism should be developed elsewhere in Slovenia, especially in much more remote areas, i.e. in demographically threatened areas. The Minister stated in Maribor that the holding company's seat is more suitable to have in Ljubljana than in Maribor, because it is the cheapest option. He also stated that they are suitable in Ljubljana, which means that they are not in Maribor, despite the fact that the electricity economy existed in Maribor, or despite the fact that the Prime Minister had doctored in Maribor. Then he says in one statement that the local population will have nothing from where it will be established. While it is true that from where it will be established nothing, from the fact that capital, the labour force is moving to Ljubljana and that it is thus emptying out more remote places in Slovenia and that Maribor is also losing on this basis, this statement is, of course, questionable. So we are witnessing an extraordinary centralisation in this country, which is certainly inconvenient and should be prevented by Parliament. And today, honourable Members, at least the 52 that you have signed the request to be the seat of the holding company in Maribor, you have this opportunity. You have this opportunity to actually confirm what the mayor of the Maribor municipality wants, Mr Sovic. You may not take advantage of this, of course, but I am sure that the voters in the elections will reward you fairly for this. You will be rewarded because such a proposal also supports a civil initiative, a civil initiative that has collected over 40,000 signatures to support the establishment of this company in Maribor. Maribor cannot be satisfied with what Mr Minister and Secretary of State Dr. Golob have now proposed, despite the great praise they received from the Maribor electric staff. It cannot be satisfied with some kind of energy office, it cannot be satisfied with the fact that the secretary and ficus in Maribor and a few other employees are being set up, while the main one is leaving Maribor. So that is the capital, of course, and the capital of the holding company, which is the capital of the government, and the Secretary of State in the role of the President of the Supervisory Board. Mr Prime Minister is trying to calm down, as I can read in the media, the Styria Members and the SS Members, in particular from LDS, as if there were no others, and invites them to some kind of interview where they are likely to hope for one another. However, the problem is that this issue has led to the fact that the construction of the Sava power plants does not move anywhere, that things are moving around in this area and that, I would say, the Minister of Environment and Space is so politically saved to the detriment of the whole country. It will be interesting to see how Members will vote today on this occasion, as I have already said - those who have signed this petition in this National Assembly, including, say, DeSUS Members. Here I have brought with me an interesting record published by the Head of the DeSUS Group, Mr Kebrič, if I fly quickly, says that on 15.3.2001 the first meeting of the Club of Members of Podravja was convened. So today, Members of the Podravja can actually show whether they mean or don't mean anything. “At the meeting of the club on 27.6., under the first item of the agenda, we addressed the issue of holding the power plant.” He goes on to say: “The meeting with Minister Kopač became dramatic after the third interview in Ruša, where the minister spoke thoughtless, uncompromising and insulting words. The Minister of Digger proved his argument of power with his arrogance.” So, this part of Mr. Kebrich's record you could read. Finally, he concludes - he says: "In proof of the need for unity only a short parable. The father calls his five sons on the deathbed, and tells them to bring each one stick, and commands them to break their own. When they do, he tells them to put all five sticks in the butare and try to break it. It doesn't work for anyone." Dear Mariborians, consider this story when it comes not only to ours but also to broader interests. So, Mr Kebrič, I expect you here in Parliament today to remember this record and to arrange, as Head of the DeSUS Group of Members, for Members, at least your members, to vote in a manner appropriate to such writing. To the end, as far as the black construction of the Minister is concerned. So on the occasion of his presentation at the hearing before his mother's working body, I asked him how his construction was. At the time, he assured me that he had waited nine years for a building permit in Vižmarje. This is also recorded in the magnetogram from the then session. This seems to have been the way he informed the government that gave support to the minister on this issue. Of course, he probably did not tell her that in 1990, as soon as he began to build, he broke or began to build against the building documents. And that's when, of course, the conflict started with the affected neighbors. He then obtained a final authorisation in 1997 only on the basis of a revised back plan. So it would be very interesting to look at the background of how this change in the background plan was then taking place. It's just that people can tell different stories. In this context of the Minister's claim that he has done nothing illegal and that this part of the interpretation goes back to a time when he was not a minister when he was just an ordinary citizen of that country, the question arises in this context whether a minister is easy even if such a matter is at a time when he was not a minister. The point is that the minister covers this very area, that a new law on the regulation of premises is being prepared in his department and a new law on the construction of buildings is being prepared. When I read all this correspondence that he added to our responses to the interpolation, it became much clearer to me why on page 37 of the Coalition Treaty, among other things: ‘The Coalition will endeavour to lift consent to the maximum extent possible and replace it with technical standards and regulations.’ So it's in your coalition contract, which you've signed by four parties. It is then stated in this coalition contract that you will endeavour to regulate the administrative procedure by means of exceptional legal means, after the construction has already begun under the legal authorisation, it is no longer possible to revoke or abolish the building permits. That's very interesting. Thus, the building permit is legally binding, but the beginning of the construction is contrary to the wall plan and no one will be able to cut into this area by exceptional means. And another more worrisome thing, this coalition treaty also states that you will seek to amend Article 8 and the related Articles of the Law on Agricultural Lands by allowing for construction in development areas, settlements, regardless of the quality of agricultural land. Interesting. So far, so far, the Ministry of Agriculture has been able to at least unsuccessfully try to defend the best agricultural land, according to the new Ministry of Agriculture, once this has been established, it will not have its function. Otherwise, it has no function now because the government of the Minister of Agriculture normally votes in favour. Here I have quite a few uncoordinated interventions on protected agricultural land, where the Ministry of Agriculture opposed, from Maribor, Bohinj, Škocjan, Domžal, Kranjska Gora, Radenci, Brežice. This shows that the Ministry of the Environment and Space has sampled all the powers in the space and that in practice it specifies the policy of liberalisation, the change in the destination of agricultural land, irrespective of the long-term, I would say, negative consequences for Slovenia. If we continue with these processes, then experts have calculated that Slovenia will lose its fields in 2050. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u9	Thank you very much, colleague Sok. You have presented the views of the New Slovenia Group of Members. I now invite my colleague Janez Janša to the speaker's stage, who will present the views of the Socialist Party's Group of Members. After him, he'll have the word of a colleague of Stemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u10	Dearly beloved colleagues and colleagues who are present, representatives of the government! In the position of the Social Democratic Party or the Group of the Socialist Party, I would not like to repeat what my fellow Member Vizjak has already presented, as well as fellow Member Sok, before me, since all of this has already been written down and several times in key points is at least argued before the Slovenian public. However, I think I will be longer, given that the Minister did not further explain the perceptions and indications of the interpretation in his performance, and especially from the extension of this interpretation. In this defense, however, the weakest was precisely in the part that should be easiest for him and which, in my opinion, is also one of the key points of this interpretation. This interpellation is not only a matter of concrete violations of laws and regulations or, as we have written down, a constitutional order in certain particulars, but also an investment for respect or, rather, for the sake of our efforts to respect political and legal culture in a consistent manner, but also, we could say what is constitutional and legal. It is true that after the interpellation was tabled, the Minister for Environment and Space, Mr Janez Kopač, has softened some of his statements, some have also tried to explain. That was when the public cleansing of his character and work began, as he began to appear in some other contexts in the media, and yet we did not get a satisfactory answer at that time, unfortunately not today, even though I personally expected him. In addition to the highly reasoned concrete violations of the laws which are very clearly documented and defined in this interpretation, the most controversial in its work so far can have even worse consequences for our development and for the efforts defined in the Slovenian Constitution, and which can not only cause worse consequences, but can also have a divisive effect and have an impact on our political and legal culture and also on the legal and constitutional order. On one occasion, the minister was not a debate on the baroque omism, but this was a performance by the government's official representative at the most viewed, at least one of the most popular news shows, on the central television daily of Television Slovenia, last August at half eight, when he watched this show of about 600,000, 700,000 Slovenes and Slovenes said the following, it was quoted, but I will repeat it. "But I regret to say that right now, at this point, it seems unrealistic for us to fulfill everything that the law has promised. I hope that as much as possible will be paid this year, but perhaps some part of this will never be paid." Why does this statement seem so important to me? Why do I think such a statement is so controversial? If we lived in a fortified democracy, we wouldn't even have to explain it anymore. If the Minister of the Swedish, Dutch, French, German, Austrian or even Polish governments had said something like that in a week or so, no later than a week later, he would not have been a minister because he would have resigned either by himself because he would have realized what a mistake he had made or had been removed by the Prime Minister, or by his client, because he would have caused irreparable damage. That's not what happened with us. Although reactions in the Slovenian public were similar to reactions in the public of countries with solid democracy, despite the fact that resentment was also in his party, at least in some parts, and despite the fact that, as I was able to learn from the personal talks, many of his ministerial colleagues were not exactly excited about such a statement. Such a statement is unacceptable, not only because, if taken as it has been said, it introduces an option of arbitration by the exclamation point on whether or not something that the legislator has adopted will be consistently implemented. In fact, the minister said "the law was passed, something was paid under this law, something might happen yet, something probably never". The question is, who is the one who will make the selection between what is paid, what is paid, and what is never paid? Who will make this discrimination between the citizens who have been given a right by law? Apparently, the executive or the executive or the minister himself. This is the first thing, this is the first aspect, the milder aspect of the inadmissibility and the great controversy of this statement. What is more important is the divisive aspect of such a position, the divisive effect of such a statement, such an attitude that comes from somewhere from the top to the legal and political culture in the country. We are all taxpayers, we pay income, value added tax, who deals with entrepreneurship, other obligations, and there is no arbitration in us or free will. This is an obligation, the same obligation for each of us, such as the law adopted by this National Assembly, also an obligation for the Minister. And now imagine that citizens in this country are doing the same as the minister. They say, "I paid some income, maybe I'll do something, but I'll probably never do something." Of course, citizens can say that, but the consequences are severe. There's a punishment coming, there's a recovery, there's a rubble coming. So there's no arbitration here, it's only verbal. When it comes to the minister, it's obviously allowed. However, we all know that there is also something that cannot be prescribed that the rule of law is not solely based on regulations. In a normal country, everything can never be prescribed. Whether we have a legal state or not, of course, is not only based on what is written down and on sanctions and on inspections, but also based on legal culture, it depends on the level of some legal culture in the country. If it is torn from the top of the executive branch, it is very utopian to expect that this level of legal culture and respect for the laws of citizens will be somewhat greater. There can be no denying, no one in his right mind is likely to deny the harmful effects of such views and such statements, if they come from the top, from the top of the executive branch on legal culture in the country, on certain general relations. Perhaps the matter would be much milder if, I don't know, the minister said the next day he had made a lapsus, or that he would have been tried on this side to apologize or to do himself to the Slovenian public, not to the opposition, but to the Slovenian public. None of this happened, not today. The Minister defended this statement, which cannot be defended. This statement, which the Minister stands for, falls under the same category as those of some in the neighbouring country, Austria, in the Austrian Republic, which say they will not comply with the rules or decisions of the Constitutional Court. The one who made this statement in the Austrian government is not a member of the Austrian federal government, because somehow the government was unable to reach it, despite the fact that the party had achieved great success in the elections, but because it had already made some such statements when the Austrian government was forming it, for reasons of international credibility somehow did not come into this government. If he had been a member of the Austrian federal government at the time of his statement, he would probably have given up the next day or the coalition would have collapsed. He's saying this from somewhere else, from the position of a member of the government of a European country, the Member States of the European Union would certainly not be able to do that. And think, in our public, there is a lot of controversy in the media with these statements in Austrian Koroška. Everyone wonders, the comments are written in the national media, how is it possible that someone says they will not comply with the Constitutional Court's decision. Now I would not have been wrong about the stories two years ago or a good year ago, when it was also about some decisions of the Slovenian Constitutional Court, but one claimed the same thing and did the same thing as Jörge Haider is now performing. Since we are against the Minister for the Environment and the Space, who has declared something similar, not with regard to the Constitutional Court or the Constitutional Court's decision, but with regard to the law adopted by this National Assembly, this comparison is appropriate. If anyone wonders at us how it is possible for someone in Austria to say that they will not respect the Constitutional Court's decision, then he must also wonder how it is possible for a minister of the Slovenian Government to say that a law will be implemented or not, but nothing special will happen to him. The interpolation submitted by the opposition is also advocated by some coalition Members, but experts already say that the interpolation will not go through. As has already been said, in a normal European country with a solid democracy against a minister who says something like that, interpolation would never occur because it would be unnecessary or a delayed reaction. Well, now let's see how the Minister advocates this, in my opinion, the farthest controversial conduct in his career. Even before and today, in his defense, he said that the National Assembly had adopted many things, that there was also a budget here, and that there was not always a means available for the decisions of the National Assembly or for the legal obligations to be fulfilled. That's a very empty excuse, I must say. An empty excuse, because we know that in this particular case there has been a realisation of this law. So, the funds existed, but that's not what the minister said. Secondly, because it is clear that if intervention laws arise, the government is obliged, within its powers, to allocate funds from other items, which are very large under the law on the implementation of the budget, in our view, to ensure the implementation of these intervention laws. I think that this is indisputably clear and that there is no need to lose words about this in the future. We can also look at a very strong case in the Slovenian public, and a particular case where there was no law, and no funds in the budget, the government has redistributed almost 10 billion dollars to buy a government plane. In order to purchase a government aircraft, I believe the aircraft is necessary, but not so expensive. A little more rational in this situation would certainly need to be behaved, significantly more rationally, but I am now speaking from a formal point of view. This purchase was not in any budget, in any law. The government has decided to do so, and the funds have been redeployed from the earmarked funds for the modernisation of the Slovenian army. And that's about 10 times what we used to pay for the whole consequences of the drought. This is a very specific case that proves that the Minister's defence at this point has not only torn but is completely empty. We could simply end this interpretation point with a rhetorical question. Whether there is a European state, either a member of the European Union, or a candidate for membership in this group, where the Minister would afford such a statement and remain a minister before practically the entire auditorium of citizens and citizens. I don't know such a country, and I'm sure all the others who sit here or stand here, we don't know that country because it's not there. The next thing that must certainly be used for some time in this debate is the Minister's statement, which has been much more reflective and, of course, among the obviouss in this interpretation. This is also a quoted statement today that only Ljubljana has enough personnel to establish an electric holding company. Suppose that's even true. If that were true, then this is the worst criticism for the minister and his client, who has practically been in government for a decade. After 10 years of investment, only Ljubljana has enough personnel for one electric holding company. How did we develop this country, if that's true? In my opinion, however, the matter is not so problematic. Of course, the staff are elsewhere, and if we agree to this thesis, we also agree that there is no solution and that the circle is enchanted. Since the personnel are only in Ljubljana, the institutions will only be in Ljubljana. And since this is the case, the gap between the development of the central Ljubljana region and other regions in Slovenia will increase and nothing can be done here if we agree to this thesis, which the minister advocates. Of course, the essence of the problem is not in this sentence that was pronounced. The point of the problem is that this is actually being done. Such excuses, which are wholly or partly attracted to the hair, preserve certain trends that are negative. One of the key trends, which is negative, is over-centralisation. So it's not a problem in this statement. The problem is that the set actually works. In recent years, the gap has increased between the central Ljubljana region or between Ljubljana and Prekmurje, especially between this central region and even northeast Slovenia. It is interesting that, during all this time, a political option to which the Minister belongs has also acted in some way in this style, which he advocates in this statement. Because that's the way it is, and there's nothing you can do. It is true, however, that this option has always been rewarded in elections, and this development gap will continue to increase as long as this is the case. That's clear. As long as people do not link these matters together, Mr Minister Kopač will be able to speak such things unpunished, to do them, and to his colleagues in the government, and nothing will change. But I think this time is still running out. This is also evidenced by the reaction to this statement, 40, 50 or I do not know how many tens of thousands of signatures were collected in Maribor and the surrounding area, as well as public opinion research, which were done at the time and also later the Government orders and pays for a public opinion survey called Politbarometer. This public opinion survey also measures the ratings or performance of individual ministries and ministers. Given that the government is ordering and paying for this, I am likely to be doing some research. What these studies show, regarding the success of Mr Kopač's work, is largely or 100% different from what the Prime Minister said here earlier, which said the Minister is doing well. The Slovenian public seems to think quite the contrary, as the Prime Minister thinks, because Mr Kopač's ministry or the success of Mr Kopač is directly assessed in this study, and only the Ministry of Economic Affairs is assessed lower; it is said to be the last of the 15, 16 government officials. Given that the Prime Minister is very keen to align his views with the majority opinion in the public, we can see that this time it has not been the case. His opinion differs greatly from what the Slovenian public thinks about the good work of the Minister, which is the subject of interpretation. At the end of the presentation of our Group's position, which, of course, because we have co-signed it, will also support the interpretation and the conclusion that the Minister should be dismissed, I would say that today we are not voting as much on Mr Kopač as on the Minister with his name and surname, and when we vote, we will not be so determined whether he has broken some law or not in some concrete matter, although the perceptions of this interpretation are reasoned, very serious and valid, and would already be sufficient to replace ourselves. We will decide on a more important dilemma - whether we will decide whether it is possible to do what Mr Kopač has done with this statement before practically the entire Slovenian auditorium, whether the law can be respected or not, and whether some will get rights from the law and others will probably not, and whether it is possible to survive in a political function or not in Slovenia. If, after the vote, it turns out that this is possible in Slovenia, then, frankly, Slovenia does not meet the criteria for entry into the family of developed countries where this is not possible. So it is not only a dilemma that lies here on some axis of position-opposition, nor is it just a dilemma that lies before the Members of Styria, where the minister is the least popular, but it is a dilemma before the entire national assembly. The result of this vote will have an important impact on what Slovenian political and legal culture will be like in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u11	Thank you very much, colleague Janša. You have presented the views of the Group of Members of the Socialist Party. I now invite my colleague Igor Štemberger to the floor. Mr Štemberger will present the views of the Youth Party's parliamentary group. He'll be given the word of his colleague, Kebrich. You have the floor, Comrade Štemberger.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. In the Young Slovenia Party, we will not support the interpretation of the work and responsibility of the Minister for Environment and Space, Mag. John the Ripper, but we're not going to defend him either. We estimate that the interpolation candidates have missed the addressee of the interpolation due mainly to the fact that the minister is being held accountable, which should be reported to the government. In response to the interpretation, the Minister makes it clear that all the procedures and actions he has committed have been approved by the Government. His answers, as we know, are also agreed by the government, and in this way he also assumes formal responsibility for all reported irregularities. The Ministry of Environment and Space, in the opinion of the Young Slovenia Party in the last year, has been working well, in certain areas, in the main and priority tasks that the Ministry is supposed to carry out, namely the protection of the environment and the provision of environmental standards, which will also preserve our environment for our future generations, and are either neglected or not engaged in them at all, as we can say about housing policy. Interpellation is seen primarily as a media highly resilient political game in which, in our view, the Prime Minister should play a key game by replacing the minister for the mistakes he has read. However, he did otherwise and on behalf of the government took all political responsibility and we do not intend to vote in the Party of Youth Slovenia on the interpretation. Nevertheless, we will fly through some of the indications resulting both from the interpretation and from the response to it. At points 1 of the interpolation on the non-implementation of the law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, storms with hail, landslides and seaslides in 2000, we can understand in response the explanation that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia did not provide the necessary resources to enforce the law. This means that the government is also responsible for non-compliance with legal provisions. The Minister's statements that some part of the compensation may never be paid, and in this context, we consider it an honest recognition that the Minister knows that the government does not intend to comply with the legal provisions. In point 2, which refers to the signing of a harmful contract on the heat treatment of animal waste for temporary storage prior to incineration, we note that the amount of the resources allocated by the Republic of Slovenia to Koto on the basis of the signature of the contract was adopted by a decision of the Government which took all the responsibility for this decision. At the third point of interpolation, the story is similar. The location of the Slovenian power plant holding company is a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which, according to the Young Slovenia Party, has certainly not acted in the interest of coherent regional development. That's what the government did, and that's what the government's responsible for. Unfortunately, it did not reconsider its decision even after the appeal of more than 50 members of the National Assembly and 40,000 signatures. These are facts that speak for themselves about the weight of these government decisions, not taking into account the welfare of the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. I mentioned only three points from a total of very extensive interpretations, which, according to the Young Slovenia Party, point to only one point, namely, that the government is the one that has taken decisions and is fully responsible for reporting irregularities and therefore the interpretation should be made public. It is true, however, that today's debate gives Slovenian citizens little light and clarity on the mistakes of the ruling coalition. In the Youth Slovenia Party, we will abstain from voting on the interpretation, as the vote would unjustifiably reviving the responsibility of the government to only one of its members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u13	Thank you very much, colleague Stemberger. You presented the views of the Youth Party's Parliamentary Group. Now I give my word to my colleague, Kebrich. Mr Kebrich will present the views of the DeSUS Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u14	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr. Minister, your colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! We have a responsible and difficult decision ahead of us. We have not only been entangled in our parliamentary group, but also carefully, and we have been particularly concerned about developments. In due time, Mr Minister, we drew your attention to your mistakes and advised you on what and how better it would be for the state of Slovenia. We've been exposing Maribor, which is supposed to have a holding seat. We put basically what was logically and economically justified. In your performances, unfortunately, at the beginning, perhaps some other term would be more appropriate, arrogantly rejected and simply ignored all the arguments that we presented to you, and you simply with the argument of power on which you relied, rejected all. An extraordinary meeting of the Maribor City Council, which was convened because of the holding seat, you responded to the invitation, came and apologized for yours, I will kindly express myself, inappropriate words, and in particular insults to those professional staff who are also outside Ljubljana. This is not exactly what you claimed that only Ljubljana is passing through the relevant personnel with knowledge and experience to sell electricity abroad. Look, there's not long before we've collected and monitored your events, your actions. At the beginning, you simply said "it will be only in this seat of holding company in Ljubljana about 25 to 30 people". I repeat and point out that you have highlighted and requested only because Ljubljana is passing through the appropriate power stations only in Ljubljana, that it must be established there. Now look at what you are under pressure from the arguments and also from the public opinion, when we gave you good advice and suggested in the beginning - you were, I repeat, arrogant - when we asked you in writing, you wanted us to present you with other arguments such as a delegation of native Members or a club of Podravske Members, and you did not answer. Kindness requires that you write to someone, even if he does not agree to at least answer you. As the proverb says, it is polite to greet, but it is a duty to heal, and this is also true in this case. What happened now? Of all these employees, you only have a couple in Ljubljana - I do not want to quote everything because you are even more familiar with it - but I will say that you have declared that there must be a holding seat, because it will be necessary for you to be with them two or three times a week because you are responsible for their work. You know, I don't take this plea or the idea that you're not responsible, but that the whole government is responsible. That's not true. Indeed, at the final stage of the "de iure" is the responsibility of the government, which adopts such and different regulations, decisions, conclusions, conclusions, but on whose proposal. If you have convinced the government that this is the best, then the government has believed you and the government is formally responsible, and in fact you. Look what you've done. You have transferred to Velenje over 23 employees, and it literally says here that you are dealing with electricity sales, not only on the domestic market, but also abroad, which is contrary to your logic, which you pointed out at the outset, that only in Ljubljana can they sell electricity. We leave it to the point of insult, but in everything bad, when citizens will condemn us for this time spent on this interpretation, rather than adopting good laws that we need to harmonise and adapt to the European Union if we are to do so. But I'm just saying, there's something good about every bad thing. But it's good what we set off. However, today’s meeting or today’s meeting would not be necessary if you then listened and were susceptible to arguments. What has started is important and this is the benefit of this session, this interpolation, which is unnecessary in order to trigger decentralisation in Slovenia. I allow myself, my dear fellow, because I do not know if you are aware that I will read - because it is not long, I will highlight something - when the Prime Minister, Mr Boris Sovic, Mr Ivan Kebric and Mr Stanislav Holc, writes on 18.9. last year: "Dear Sir, you have addressed me with a number of letters and initiatives concerning the position of Maribor and the Podrav region. Such thinking should in particular encourage the government's decision on the head office of the Slovenian power plant holding company, with Maribor feeling neglected again. The problem of balanced regional development is not new and in relation to it the government has done a number of things in recent years, and the specific problems of Maribor and the environment have also been devoted to a special meeting in Maribor. In recent years, a large number of resources have been invested in the Maribor economy and the economy, and many jobs have been created. We are aware, however, that there are still many questions that remain open." It's very important, and I'm going to highlight it in particular. "The government wants to establish a constructive dialogue on the issues that you have addressed to it and to me as Prime Minister in the last month. I believe that the debate, ” underlined personally, “is based on these issues because the government is aware that Maribor was more exposed to the particular structure of the economy in the transition process. [[...]] However, there is no problem of how to restructure the Maribor economy, how to stimulate new investments and how to get new jobs, only to bind the government's decision on the seat of one of the institutions, in which case the Slovenian power plant holding company,” I underline. "When looking for solutions to this issue, a proposal has emerged from the previous government debates to be the headquarters of the united," I stress, "Savi and Drava power plants in Maribor, given the fact that Maribor has the most staff and experience in this area," contrary to your opinion. It further states, again underlined, "The issue of regional development of the country needs to be addressed in a comprehensive and long-term manner. The government will pay a lot of attention to this issue in the future. Not only as a question of decentralisation by transferring the seats of individual institutions from the country's capital, but also as a question of the transfer of power at different levels of decision-making." And so on. I stress just two more paragraphs: "This debate will be an introduction to the government's further activities in this area and will continue at the government's meeting on Thursday." It's been misled. “With the High Economic and Commercial School and with the leadership of the Maribor municipality we will discuss the development problems of Maribor and the wider region” What is positive in this? It started moving basically in the area of decentralisation. Take a look at the last diplomatic meeting that Minister Rupel brought to Maribor, otherwise if the Prime Minister did not order his ministers to watch for certain institutions and to decentralise themselves, so that everything will not be focused in Ljubljana. As I will also act individually on my behalf, I conclude this position of the Group of Members in the following. If there were anything in your pants after all else, when things were brought to the top, you would have stepped down and the whole matter would have been simply solved and today the Prime Minister would not have said that in the current time with so many projects being started, it would be very difficult to replace, once again the new Minister would have gotten 100 days, saying good three months to drive and to continue. For us, this is not an argument; it is essential for us that no one, because we are a democratic party to the pensioners of Slovenia, can command us how we will vote, but, above all, whether it is an agreement or a treaty, or a statute, is a constitution for us and we will vote on our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u15	Thank you very much. This was the position of the DeSUS Group of Members. Mr Weber will present the views of the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats. It will be followed, however, by a respected colleague, John Spožnik. First of all, he has the word of a colleague, Weber. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. A nice welcome to all, to the minister and to the representatives of the government. In the Consolidated List, we believe that the interpellation submitted is an instrument of opposition, which is trying to point out, in this case, a violation of the Constitution, laws and regulations. The contention of the charge is severe, all of which are mainly based on newspaper articles, magnetogram extracts, parliamentary questions, public statements and their interpretation. However, they are not supported by evidence and material facts. We believe that interpretation is more about a move that is supposed to have political effects than it is about a intention that could actually find out and justify that Minister Kopač has committed mass violations of the Constitution and laws and thus has caused harmful consequences to people and the country. Therefore, those arguments did not convince us. The work and responsibility of Minister Janez Kopač relate to space, housing policy, environment and energy. These areas show that these are complex and highly diversified tasks where different interests and perspectives are intertwined, particularly with regard to environmental intervention. On the one hand, it is about the desires that development dictates, and on the other, it is about the legitimate concern of nature. These problems have also been accompanied by basic accidents, such as drought, cold, reptiles and emergencies, as a result of the prohibition of the use of processed animal proteins and fats for feed or fertiliser. All of these are challenging areas and questions that Minister Kopač is addressing with sufficient responsibility and expertise. If we are trying to compare the content of the interpolation and the response to it with the actual situation we are witnessing to the Minister, we can find that the work of the Minister shows that the law on the provision of funds to remedy the effects of drought, storms with hail, landslides and seaslides in 2000 has been implemented, that there has been a solution to the processing of animal waste and that we have avoided the catastrophic consequences in agriculture and the food processing industry if that does not happen. The costs of handling animal waste are 18% of the average prices in European Union countries, but this is more due to the government's long-standing policy, as we note that we have limited possibilities for heat treatment of slaughterhouse waste, that for all of us the growing challenge is consistent regional development and that the evidenced actions would not change the current situation, that the violation of the mining rights regulation is difficult to read out to the Minister, as they have accelerated procedures and prepared all contracts by the end of 2001, so that private construction is closely linked to the client's requirements for a procedure that has the possibility of setting new and new conditions, which are also being examined at all times. Therefore, it is not possible for the Minister to see black construction. In addition to interpolation, the applicants themselves considered that it was a matter of concluding a contract with Koto for a crime, an abuse of an official position, and further commenting on the answers without more concrete evidence, and extending the interpretation of the suspension of concession arrangements for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava and the illegal conduct of the procedure for the preparation of the site plan for the rehabilitation and reinstallation of the Hydroelectric Bridge. The comparison of arguments shows that the concession to exploit the energy potential of the lower Sava is not established because the concessionaire does not have the resources to enable the law to be implemented. Therefore, it cannot be noted to the Minister that he has abandoned the arrangements for concessionary relations, in particular as he has drafted a proposal to amend the law which will allow the transfer of concession to the concessionaire who has the resources provided that the procedure for the preparation of the site plan for the rehabilitation and installation of the Mosta hydropower plant is governed by legislation, and in the interim period the decisions of the local community on the declaration of protection of springs, wetlands and grasslands of rare plants and the ratification of the Berne Convention have been infringed. Both documents are binding and the Ministry conducts procedures that follow these requirements. In view of the above, it does not show all outstanding issues in the areas covered by the Ministry of Environment and Space to be addressed to Minister Kopač. However, irrespective of the groundless interpretation, it is likely to speed up the regulation of one of the perceived acts. At the same time, in the Group of Members of the United List of Social Democrats, we expect the Minister to act in a coordinated manner on all important issues relating to space regulation, housing policy, environmental and water management and energy issues. This should follow the principles of sustainable development, which should mean the rational and sustainable use of natural resources, including space, and the care of the quality of the environment and close cooperation with the local population. We are therefore convinced that the new housing law must deal more effectively with the inequality before the law of tenants in denationalised apartments, which we have been alerting since the entry into force of the housing law and which he has also pointed out to the Ombudsman in his special report. We also believe that the Water Act must finally regulate effective planning and management of investments by setting up a water company, ensuring effective protection and water use. However, in the case of the law on the regulation of premises and the construction of buildings, the law should ensure greater flexibility, developmental orientation and simplification of administrative procedures for interventions to the premises. We also expect him to comply with the government's conclusions and to ensure the management of the construction of power plants on the lower Sava via Drava power plants and with the company based in Maribor. As a result of everything I have said, the United League of Social Democrats Group will not support and not support the proposed resolution decision on the work and responsibility of Minister Kopač. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u17	Thank you very much, colleague Weber. Before I invite my colleague Podobnik to tell you that the fact that Member groups are now starting to turn into shorter groups and the fact that we still have an hour to the end of today, is the possibility that Members and Members will also appear in addition to the representatives of the groups of Members. That is why I inform colleagues and colleagues of the order of the first five: colleague Rupar, colleague Kelemin, colleague Kebrič, colleague Brejc and colleague Jože Ašič. Now he has the word of a colleague Janez Podobnik, who will present the views of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. You have the floor, Comrade Petty Officer.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we listened very carefully to today's performance by the representative of the proponents, the signatories for the interpretation, the performance of the minister and, in particular, the performance of the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister's statement also suggested that it would be necessary to weigh the positive and some negative actions of the Minister and then decide. It's a completely wrong approach, it's not an interpolation. Interpellation is an instrument that has elements in the constitution and rules of procedure, and if the interpellationers find one single example of illegal conduct, even a hundred positives do not weigh down and then the Minister must, in principle, withdraw. So, the Prime Minister's approach here is wrong and this needs to be said publicly. Another time. A very important question is how this dialogue is taking place, or how it is taking place. Today we have listened first to a very long introduction by the representatives of the interpellation candidates, who have made an effort to prepare a comprehensive text. We received it two months ago. He was read again today. It must be said that the Minister has also prepared a very extensive response and, in our view, a good answer, almost in all respects. And, of course, today it would be expected that the representatives of the interpellation candidates would go from answer to answer and look for weak points there, not really the whole story would open up here. For it must be said that it is not logical that an argument for interpretation may be a decision of a minister who has a basis in the decision of the government. This is a misinterpretation of the functioning of the government. If a decision is made by the government, then you can't and it's illogical to accuse the minister of that. In those areas where Mr Kopač made it clear that he has a government cover for his decisions today, it would be expected that the representatives of the candidates would simply withdraw this area or extend the interpretation to the government. There's a different procedure. This needs to be made very clear. Secondly, it is all the more illogical that, as an argument for interpolation, the Minister proposed something to the government and then the government adopted it. This can't be an argument for interpolation either. The minister is obliged to propose something, and if the government accepts it, the government has taken full political responsibility. This is an important relationship on a relationship within the government. In my performance, I would like to say in particular that this interpretation and its content are in some ways very complicated. In my personal opinion and in the opinion of the members of the parliamentary group, as well as our colleagues in the party, the minister is the weakest at the point already mentioned today: he was belied, he was careless, he was too confident, he was arrogant when he hoped to make such a simple statement. Unfortunately, I must say that right now, at this very moment, it seems unrealistic for us to fulfill everything that the law has promised. "I hope that as much as possible will be paid this year; but perhaps some part of this will never be paid" - so the minister must not speak. The next day, the minister should apologize. If I hadn't done that, I should have called the Prime Minister the next day and said, "I apologize in public for these words." Today, I missed the performance of the Minister and also the performance of the Prime Minister, so that I could simply get away from this statement. However, since it is necessary to be corrected to the Minister and it must be admitted that in the later statements, in fact, he has been partially rectified - immediately on the same evening, the President of our party and the Minister, his colleague, magg, directly challenged his statement. But it is unacceptable that one of the ministers speaks out publicly that the law will not be fully implemented and so on, Mr Minister, I would suggest that you take advantage of your opportunity in a later performance and apologize once again publicly for this statement. I think it's also part of a political culture. The second area relates to the issue of the seat of the energy holding company. The first question to be raised here is what is the relationship between Members and the government. In the country of Slovenia, there has been a break in the last period that ministers or Prime Minister are very left-handed, so to speak, by the way, or even highly responsive to the views of Members. Following a halt, key decisions shall be taken in the National Assembly. The relations between Members, the National Assembly, the Prime Minister, the National Assembly, the Minister of State, or the Minister of State, the Members, are clear, in the Constitution and in the laws and also in the Rules of Procedure. And in principle, there is virtually always a political confrontation if the Minister or Prime Minister turns against the Members. For the Members have chosen him. So it's the other way around. In our opinion, the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, and we have repeatedly made this public, is Minister Mag. Janez Kopač reacted unnecessarily when it came to a substantive and organisational issue, how an important entity such as the holding of electricity producers will be organised in the future. When faced with opposition, he went further and further in his statements and literally plunged into the sand and quarreled with the whole of Styria. This has harmed the government, in which the Slovenian People's Party is also a member, and in my opinion it also harmed its own party. Later, a great deal of public outrage, and also the pressure of the people who expressed this outrage with their signatures, actually caused this position to be corrected slowly. But the damage was done. In our party we are convinced that in this way this sensitive issue of the neglect of the intellectual, economic and scientific pool of Styria and especially Maribor has been unnecessarily reopened. These are two key issues that we have been paying attention to in our parliamentary group. However, we are of the opinion that the government, by addressing both the Minister's replies, although it is not necessary under the rules of procedure, does not need to do so, and has somehow supported the Minister's response and, in particular, the Prime Minister's reply that they have accepted their responsibility. This is said to be the case if the Prime Minister estimates that he may be a member of the government who makes such statements, which are thoughtless, which are offensive, which go beyond the level of political culture, then he should have such a minister in the government. However, we hope, even on the basis of this debate, that this will no longer happen, because it is a question of the relationship between ministers and Members, that the next day, when the Minister reads a statement by Members in newspapers and the Member bears full responsibility for his statement, to call him on the phone and tell him the words that are offensive and do not in any way agree with the rank of Minister. I'm afraid that's what happened, too. We have also paid very close attention to some of the other areas mentioned in the first proposal and expanded in addition to interpolation. As far as the issue of energy is concerned, it must be said that he is Minister of Mag. Janez Kopač inherited a poor resort, a poorly watered resort, from his client colleague, Dr. Petrinova. Our party and our parliamentary group have opposed energy entering the environment and space. We have estimated that he will not be able to coordinate well because he also has other important areas in his department. And a few of the perceptions that are in interpolation are literally derived from a failed and poorly guided concept of energy development, which was not the product of his work. The second area is the area of slaughterhouse waste. It's a very important area. The minister and the government have decided more than once quickly. But the fact is, Kota's position is such that we can say that he is a classic monopolist and that the government is in the position of his hostage. Government, I'm talking. Some of the moves were doubtless poorly thought out. But we did not find any answers to the illegal conduct of ministers. That's the problem, colleagues and colleagues. A very important question is the question and the obvious of blacksmithing. We're pleading for correctness. We looked at the stenogram of listening when he was a mag. The digger presented himself on the Committee on Environment and Space. And let us be honest and say that he himself mentioned this issue first in his debate. He mentioned him. And let's be honest, and let's just say that only one member came forward with a single sentence and then with two sentences -- that's right, colleague Sok was another one, I think -- and the matter ended then. At that time, Members and Members should shoot with all their cannons at the hearing. Since then, we have not been aware of any new arguments and reasons in public regarding this matter, which is some kind of millstone mag. He's been digging for years. We don't know that anything would be new in these 11 months. So it's incorrect to open up the topic that was opened the day that you somehow x-rayed the minister and his work so far. In response, if I am not mistaken, there are 47 lands where the Minister speaks of this yoke of snakes and what has been happening in this process. There was something unusual: 9 years or more. We have consulted experts in this area. The minister himself says he made a deposit on blacksmithing; he writes, in accordance with the law. We found no evidence of illegal conduct. We haven't found him. Dear colleagues and colleagues. We, within our party, have agreed that the Group of Members will follow the debate very closely and that it will follow very closely any additional arguments that the representatives of the fellow Members and colleagues who signed the interpellation would have made public here. We didn't hear them today. We haven't heard! Colleagues and colleagues, who are representatives of the interpolation, were only taken down from two months and a half ago. Therefore, based on what we have heard today in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will not support the proposed interpretation. However, we expect the Minister to explain his conduct here in public in his performance at those points where he acted thoughtlessly, and as a former Parliamentary, he will also apologize to his fellow parliamentarians - the former. Ambassador Kangler is at home from Maribor and very well knows the mood of this important region of Slovenia and will outline some of his additional arguments in his debate and also tell his decision there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u19	Thank you very much, colleague Podobnik. Three more - or two colleagues and one colleague - will present the views of their parliamentary groups. First, I'll give my word to my fellow seal if that's what he wants. Please, I'm inviting my fellow seal to come to the speaker's stage. He will be given the floor by his colleague Anderlič on behalf of the LDS Group of Members, and as the last to appear will be colleague Maria Possonec, then six of his colleagues and colleagues who have applied for them are already more? [[...]] Seven. My friend Peca, you're up first. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u20	Respectable present. What do those words about coherent regional development help us in Slovenia? What do the debates that take place both in this National Assembly and in all other institutions about the provinces help us in Slovenia? What helps us in Slovenia to talk about fostering employment, raising economic growth and similar things? This National Assembly meets almost every session of its own with a document, whether in marriage form or in any other form, where it tries to do its best for that country. But do we accept this for ourselves so that we have a feeling because we've tried something? Ladies and gentlemen, this is exactly how we behave. We stick to that principle that if we accept something, the story is over for us. We will not go beyond that threshold to control the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in order to have control over individual elements or members of this government, and in this case this is Mr Kopač, the minister on whom the reports are flying. According to the Slovenian National Parties, these findings are more than substantiated. We accept programs, we accept declarations, we collect signatures. Who and why? So that we can convince the naive public that we really feel that way in our heart? Look how the vote is going to go today. Mr Kopač will unfortunately remain in position, even though he has, in my opinion, benefited from a few things that are not in the best interest of the Slovenian National Party; even more which are detrimental to this country. As long as a man is a politician sitting in this national assembly, he represents the position, but if a politician moves to the government, that position should not be harmful to that country. This position should not harm the development of this society, and this view should not be offensive to a certain part of our country. There are only two million of us and we have come so far that these two million people want to divide even the government of the Republic of Slovenia. Is it understood that you are no longer able to rule two million people and that you will therefore - some degrade them, if people in a certain part of the Republic of Slovenia, say, the northern part with the center of Maribor, are no longer able to perform the task, are not educated enough to have no pride and knowledge? You mark the lower part of Slovenia as one that has the entire intellect of our country. I think that this argument alone is sufficient reason enough for Minister Kopac to have to give up his own government, but not for the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its Chief of Staff, Mr Drnovšek, to even support him. Ladies and gentlemen, look what we're making out of this country! We've known people for a long time. We dislodge them on the basis of their wealth, their property. Today we also distribute them on the basis of the criteria from which they come, from which end of Slovenia. Do you find that understandable I expected Minister Kopač to apologize in his defense to Maribor, apologize to the part of Slovenia that was subject to offensive allegations. But not the spirit or hearing of apologizing to say, "Yes, I made a mistake, it wasn't meant to be." No! No! Minister Digger advocates that he did everything right in this country. Mr. Digger, do you have at least a little self-criticism? I don't think it's too much, and it's harmful. This is too self-serving for a government representative to represent that element in this society that is enforcing the laws that govern this country. Let me be allowed to add to Mr Kopač's criticism in all of those five points, as proposed and among which we are members of the Slovenian National Party, a criticism to Mr Drnovšk, who recently, after our conviction, is making an unacceptable mistake. Inadmissible errors, both in the field of the economy and in today's field or in the area that we are dealing with today, are in relation to our country. Members had previously collected signatures on the so-called holding company when they had not yet had the directives from their party February or elsewhere. 57 members of this National Assembly have signed a document with which - they are sure - something more needs to be done for this country than just to rule it; it is necessary to give some functions in this country. The point is, this country, not this city, it's Ljubljana. There are more cities in Slovenia. There are several regions in Slovenia that will soon be legalised. Don't impoverish the other regions. But unfortunately, that is what Slovenian government is doing today. This is what the Minister for Environment and Space is doing today. And if today from this hall, which I fear will go away in the sense that the interpolation will fail, this national assembly will give a green light for Slovenia to be exclusively Ljubljana and nothing more. But not Ljubljana to all limits, but Ljubljana in today's framework. Everything else will be a periphery and will be viewed as such: whether in economic, intellectual or any other area. We should not afford this: neither should we, nor the Slovenian government. The people of that part of Slovenia, from which there are also several Members, have been signed against the activities carried out by Minister Kopač. These signatures were collected at 40,000. 40,000 people in one part of Slovenia disagreed with the policy led by Minister Kopač in his ministry and led by the government. Isn't that reason enough? Ladies and gentlemen! Let me touch point four, that's the point of the indictment or the interpolation that talks about blacksmithing. When I gave my signature to the interpolation, I must admit that I was somewhat disturbed by this point that the minister may have made himself manifest if he had built up some sort of attitude towards the house. We're talking about the Minister in the final stages. And I'm sure it's his act, if it's true - or he didn't convince me that it's not true - it just reflects his character. If this is the nature of the Minister of the Slovenian Government, therefore a bad character, it comes to him personally. What's more important is the things he's done all over the country with. And on these matters, this national assembly, and before it the government of the Republic of Slovenia, should focus. And to conclude: I think it would make sense for this national assembly to once rise and proudly say how this country will develop. But for a change from all our activities and actions in history, when we do so by raising our hands or pressing our ballot, let us do something today that will have consequences at this moment: we vote in confidence today to Minister Kopač. Thank you. The Slovenian national party will support the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u21	Thank you very much, colleague Pec. Mr Tone Anderlič will present the views of the LDS Group. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u22	My work has been facilitated, as it is clear that the Minister, as a long-standing Parliamentary, has been able to assess what the findings mentioned in the interpolation mean and has, to a different extent as we have been accustomed to so far, answered in depth the questions, the accusations, the findings that are in the interpolation and, of course, I can argue that this is a case, including a sample example of how to answer the allegations that are addressed to someone. It is true, though, that in a certain part it is even difficult to do so if there are indications at the level of the need to answer what someone understood when he said something and he was not prepared to follow what was really done in a particular case. And we, unfortunately, have the excuse that the whole interpretation stems from some cause or cause, which is called the ugly talk of the Minister in public about certain things. All the arguments and indications are made out of this, and then, as it were, attempts are made to produce evidence also in areas that have nothing to do with the work of the minister; even more, stories are drawn from so much as a childhood, which would be wrong and not fit for a minister, whether it be in his previous life or, of course, now as a minister. It is therefore in some ways surprising that there has been no willingness in fact in all this time to try to understand the actual role of the minister in specific matters. After all, if you want, with facts that are also related to the holding seat and the holding activity. According to my behaviour and interest, which I have done in the last 14 days - not with Minister Kopač, not with the State Secretarys, but mainly in Maribor - most of the functions, most of the activities and even more than they would have been in Maribor if you wanted to be based in Maribor, if you wanted, from the distribution centre for all of Slovenia and so on, are planned or carried out in Maribor and a variety of things. But I will not talk about specific matters, because I think it is written enough in the answers and will also be able to argue with the Minister, in addition, in the explanations. It is a pity that the way "manoeuvring" has insisted that the work of a minister, the ministry should be brought into question, some burdens which, in fact, for months and months now hang so much above the minister and thus over the entire ministry, also affect the work of the government, only because at some point someone was not satisfied with a decision which, of course, is not a decision contrary to the law as has already been said today, but is a decision as the decisions of course take place. Likewise, with many decisions that have been taken either at the ministerial level or any other minister or government - after all, we have a number of decisions that we make, so to speak, with a minimum or a majority, and many disagree with them. However, this does not mean that if at some point a decision was not taken to the satisfaction of precisely what he thought must be different, that everything is wrong and that it is necessary to carry out a public lynching. We are not in favour of such a policy, and therefore, of course, we reject such a way of political action, we want to specifically, on concrete actions, on the responsibilities or responsibilities of the Minister, on the tasks performed by the Minister; that this is assessed in the light of concrete matters. And the eyewitnesses in the interpolation are actually just an argument to prove what I actually said: so that the minister behaves indecently and speaks ill of, say, the Mariborians. I, of course, speak with all respect about the Mariborians, the Lenducans, the Koperčians, the Novoměšci, Gorenjci etc., because we are, of course, all - clear, including Korošice - citizens and citizens of this country and share fate in - I hope - the same way; of course, because sometimes the situation is worse because of some problems that have arisen in regional development in one way or another and are being tried by this government, this national assembly and, of course, all those institutions in this country that can do something about it, also eliminate, in a way that development would be consistent, that it would be the same for about all citizens and citizens to ensure the conditions for everyone to be able to work successfully, schooled, survived - finally have a decent life. That is why it seems to us that in this interpolation it is a matter of exploiting an institution which is legitimate, which is constitutionally permissible and verifiable, and that we will also understand through this, we will understand these messages from this interpolation, that we will also be able to go through certain things - but not only in the case of Minister Kopač, but in the case of the functioning of the entire government and also of Parliament - and that in the future we may lose less time for infertile debates, and in particular that the Minister of all his current tasks, which he has, will be engaged under some burden of constant accusations, that if he makes a move that he will not like, let us say, people in the Great Blocks, it will require people from Zasav, that he will not already know how wrong it will be. Of course, this can't be the way it works. Therefore, the Liberal Democracy Group will in no way support interpolation - because no one has expected it - but we also reject, in particular, those obviouss that are unargued, on torn soils and which also concern personal characteristics, in the way that someone is expressing that they are also trying to prove that a minister is unable to perform certain tasks in this way. So the Liberal Democracy Group rejects the charges and, of course, we will vote against the interpretation.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u23	Thank you very much, colleague Anderlich. The last parliamentary group to communicate its views to us will be the Hungarian National Community's parliamentary group. My colleague Maria Pozsonec, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u24	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Your Honor! Let me begin by saying that I will support Minister Kopach, so I will not vote in favour of his resolution. I respect him as a capable, working man with broad knowledge. As a long-standing parliamentarian, he defended the integrated budget of the Republic of Slovenia as Chairman of the Finance Committee. My experience with Minister Digger is positive. He always showed himself willing, took time and listened to the problems and tried to solve them; of course, he could not solve them all. So I expect the Minister, according to a promise given, to do all he can to black out repeaters, without permission, to be removed as soon as possible throughout Slovenia. I also expect his ministry to help municipalities not have citizens and citizens all over Slovenia with poor drinking water to have a built-up sewer to have a clean, healthy environment. I would like to express my opinion on the hajka created around Minister Kopač. I have also signed an application for the establishment of a holding office in Maribor, because I want a more equitable development of North-East Slovenia. However, I also accept the arguments for non-fulfilment of this, but I did not think that heads must fall for this. Especially because it was not only up to the Minister for Environment and Space. In general, I believe that Minister Kopač has been subjected to a lot of things and cannot be held responsible for things like, for example, pre-Last Drought and last year's snow. I am aware that it is not possible to ignore more than 10,000 signatures for the Minister's discharge, and I regret to find that people can be manipulated. The dissatisfaction with the centralisation of Slovenia, due to the economic and infrastructure backlog of northeastern Slovenia, led to the lynching of the minister. All these problems that are real, real and difficult are not called "The Digger". I think it's given the time of the witch hunt a long time ago.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u25	Have you finished Mrs. Possonec? Will you turn it off? Colleagues and colleagues! We have thus exhausted the time devoted to presenting the views of the groups of Members. I have in my hands the declarations of Members and Members who will be able to speak indefinitely. I limit all the debates that will come later to five minutes. Let me tell you who will have the right to speak unlimitedly: colleague Pavel Rupar, colleague Kelemin, colleague Podobnik, colleague Kebric, colleague Brac, Jože Ašič, colleague Jerovšek, colleague Pukšič, colleague Drobnic, colleague Tanko, colleague Pohorec, colleague Rokavec, colleague Kremjar, colleague Moze and colleague Sok and Kangler. These are colleagues and colleagues who will act with the right to speak indefinitely. The first one is colleague Pavel Rupar. Before I give my colleague Rupar a word and thus open a general debate, let me say that I or my colleagues who will be chairing the meeting today and on Tuesday will take Article 68 very strictly into account. It is said that we stick to the subject of discussion and avoid inappropriate words or qualifications in the debate. You have the floor, Comrade Rupar.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the National Assembly. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, sir, for now, Minister! Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to begin immediately on behalf of all further debaters, who signed the role of interpolation, so that we can speak only and exclusively on professional matters and obvious matters. I am already rejecting any demagogic performance in advance, if we are to act politically and only politically and that, as one of our colleagues said, we will be impaling the pre-provoiceers on the cross as political victims, let's say, a conspiracy. All things will be reasoned. I will personally take the reading from the interpolation supplement on the basis of the construction or preparation of a site plan for the rehabilitation and reinstallation of the Mosta hydropower plant. So we allowed ourselves to share our burdens or tasks in the environment we come from. None of us, except in smaller parts, will touch anything else. Here before me I was able to obtain a small collection of the Society for the Conservation of the Nature of Bled, which was published with the help and support of the majority of the inhabitants and inhabitants of the settlements of Radovljica, Žirovnice, Jesenic and Bleda and other municipalities in Gorenjska. On this part, or in this first page, which I am showing, you can see graphically where the Republic of Slovenia, and above all the Ministry of Environment and Space under the guidance of Mr Kopač, is planning to build a new hard new power plant, causing much damage and much, I will also say, woe to the inhabitants of the Upper Sava Valley. Above all, I would like to draw attention to the responsibility of Minister Kopač, who should have already fulfilled it, and will have the opportunity to stop any preparation of a site plan or documentation for the implementation of this project without delay, if he is the Minister of Space and Environment. If he's a finance minister or anything, I understand him. The procedure for preparing a site plan for the rehabilitation and reinstallation of the Mosta hydroelectric power plant is contrary to the six points, I will indicate what. The decree amending and supplementing the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of the Republic of Slovenia: contrary to the decree on the declaration of defects, wetlands and vegetation of rare plants in the municipality of Bled, contrary to Article 41 of the Law on the regulation of settlements and other interventions in the area, contrary to Articles 1, 3, 51, 53 and 54 of the Law on the Protection of the Environment, under the heel, 96 of the Law on the Conservation of Nature and, in my opinion, the worst of all - is contrary to the law on the ratification of the Convention on the Protection of the Alps, which violates the provisions of: the Energy Protocol, the Protocol on the Protection of Nature and Environmental Care and the Protocol on the regulation of Space and Sustainable Development The applicant and the operator of the site plan, as the legal basis for the development of the site plan, shall state the decision on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term plan of the Republic of Slovenia, together with the cartographic work. I quote. “In the cartographic part of the decree, map 2, the design of the energy network sets out a plan of a hydroelectric power plant over 10 megawatts, in addition to the existing hydropower plant Bridge, the local planned hydroelectric power plant, is defined in the same way as all the other components of the plan, as part of Slovenia’s electricity network.” End of quote. The above-mentioned statement of the legal basis is legally, formally, totally insufferable for the following reasons: the presentation in the cited decision is incomplete and defective, as it is not justified in the textual part of the decision, which is the mandatory component of the document. All-space intervention shall be defined and displayed as a graphic and textual part. Another time. In a specific case, this is even necessary, since in the cartographic part of the Republic plan, a concrete intervention is presented as a new hydropower plant, i.e. a planned hydroelectric power plant, on the final watercourse and not as a remedial or re-installation operation of the existing Mosta hydroelectric power plant, as it appears in the title of the local plan itself. We can no doubt conclude that the legal basis stated by the manufacturer of the site plan, neither in the text or in the graphic part, shows nor defines the rehabilitation and installation of the Moste hydroelectric power plant, but foresees a new hydroelectric power plant on the watercourse of Završnica above 10 megawatts. The rehabilitation and installation of the Mosta hydropower plant, therefore, cannot be considered as - therefore, there is absolutely no legal basis in the cited documents. It is unacceptable to manipulate and mislead the public that the fact that the title of the document is the location plan for the rehabilitation and installation of the Mosta hydropower plant is in fundamental conflict with its content, as it follows that it is a completely new object. The concept of "supply" does not know any spatial legislation, so it cannot be a legal basis for the drafting of an implementing act. The current procedure for the adoption of the site plan is in grave breach of Article 41 of the Law on the regulation of settlements and other interventions to the premises, which lays down the order in which planning and implementing acts are adopted. In a specific case, a preparation programme for the development of the site plan was adopted in 1998 and a decision on amendments and additions to the spatial components of the long-term and medium-term social plan of our Republic was adopted a year later. It follows that the preparation programme did not have a legal basis, even if it were not legally contested, as we have shown in previous points. Allow me to summarize a few more comments on the deployment plan. Due to the envisaged intervention, the valley would be severely affected by its uniqueness, its typicalness, its complexity, its diversity and its preservation as a whole. The valley was created by ice and ice cutting across the main sea of the Bohinj glacier. This is the only river valley created in Slovenia and at the same time one of the longest unspoiled sections of the longest river in Slovenia - Save. The last well-preserved hatchlings in the vicinity of Bled and Gorenjska would be significantly affected. By doing so, they would affect rare plant societies and destroy growth sites in the European scale of endangered plants of oesell's gauze and noodles, which are also protected by the Berne Convention and the Directive of the European Union. In no way can the substitute habitat replace the complexity, diversity and natural dynamics of this area. The construction of the compensation pool would be, as stated in the nature protection board's opinion - I quote - "for nature in this area is completely devastating". The project is not and does not provide a comprehensive rehabilitation of the men's pool in which urban wastes and industrial wastes of the Jesenice steel plant have been accumulated with high levels of heavy metals and phenols. This means a constant hot spot, a submerged ecological bomb in the Bled area and Gorenjska area, which could have been triggered by any slightly larger flood. The existing project does not foresee exactly what the impact of the increase of the surface on the environment, on the cleaning plant, on the dump of the slag and also on the residential houses on the Slovenian Javornik, where the problems are already present and need in any case to be remedied immediately.It is irresponsible that the location plan is open and the measurement of the situation is still being carried out and also the mathematical model of possible impacts due to the change is not yet ready. In this case, security and human property are at risk. Poisonous mud would sooner or later flood in the pool. It is unacceptable that in such a project this environmental problem is unresolved because old mistakes would once again threaten new generations. And I would have carried to a completely unladen space all the problems brought by the above anger. Due to the intervention, unforeseen hydrological changes may occur which may endanger the groundwater and the existence of the remaining leaks in the area of Šobca, Koritna and others. Although some experts deny the appearance of fog, in nature a small stone can trigger a reptile, as you well know. In a place so dependent on the microclimate, there should be no risk of possible changes. The new lake is in all respects from the point of view of the earth, water, and air. At the threshold of the new millennium, we need to regain awareness of the wider and deeper natural and cultural values of the Blaze, the autumn valley and the land between Radovljica and Žirovnica. The compensation pool with a strong daily fluctuation of the surface and the coast in the stones, especially since the hills will always be muddy, cannot be seen as a tourist destination. It is a short-term economic impact and a short-term economic benefit. In the long term, the development and economic vitality of the entire area would also be reduced in the long term, due to debilitating biodiversity and landscape vitality. Let us not overlook the fact that these places depend on a tourism economy that can only succeed if it is accommodated by maintaining a quality space. The envisaged plan of intervention in the premises of Barje, which is secured as a natural monument. As long as the area is covered by the security regime, the location plan is not taken into account and cannot be adopted. It is an infringement of the original competence of the local community, in this case Bled, and a violation of the legislation in force in this country. The location plan does not have a legal basis, as with amendments and additions the rehabilitation and so-called installation of the Moste hydroelectric power plant was introduced only into the cartographic part of the spatial components of the state plan. Since there is no change in the text, there is no clear definition required by the rule of law. Even in the cartographic building itself, the power plant is not precisely defined, since only two characters for HE, one on Sava and the other on the Finish; “installation” in quotations because of the new facility, is good two kilometres away from the old hydroelectric power plant Moste is therefore not in the state plan. The full environmental impact assessment required by Article 54 of the Environmental Protection Act has also not been carried out. The background of the concession is completely unexplored, as after the adoption of the Energy Act, which is already in the process of the National Assembly, the Sava Power Plants will be a private company. The envisaged intervention clearly violates existing legislation and also does not take into account certain other strategies. If we take a resolution on the strategy of energy use and supply in Slovenia as a starting point, it clearly states that electricity should be adapted to the environment rather than to the environment for power plants. The plan is not in line with the development strategy for forest management in the Bled Green Belt, which foresees conservation and insurance. The intervention is also contrary to the proposal to announce the Sava Dolinka section from Žirovnica to the site of the natural monument. In addition to domestic legislation, the envisaged project does not respect international rules, such as the Berne Convention, the European Union Directive on the conservation of habitats and free living flora and fauna, the Pan-European Strategy on Bio and landscape separation, the Alpine Conventions and others, which should be closely monitored and respected by the European Union at the time of accession. However, it is better because of the integration or integration of the principles of sustainability, which are embedded in these documents, because of the survival logic of the principles of sustainability of development. I'm going to touch on some aspects. I'm going to start with nature conservation. The Sava Valley section between the Biscuit and the Blaze Bridge is one of the longest unspoiled sections of the Sava River. This part that I am dealing with is completely and still, thank God yet - a completely natural territory. Sava Dolinka from the Bridge to the Bled Bridge runs through an extraordinary valley, which was created as a result of ice and ice cutting, and is the only river valley created in Slovenia. It is the last well-preserved layman's original territory in the vicinity of Bled and Gorenjska. If it were infested, it could result in the extinction of many plants, as well as animals, including Leslova jaundice, which is also at risk in the European scale, and protected by the Berne Convention, and by many plants, which is one of the 17 growth sites in Slovenia and one of the largest in the heat. I would also like to point out that there is still a breeze lily growing in Brije, which will disappear completely at the time of the valley's infestation. A group of red pines and glogs is spread between the Sava Dolinka hill and the Kistoktar Bridge in contact with Savo Bohinjka. In Slovenia, to that extent, it no longer grows anywhere else. In the vicinity of Bled, this is the only green belt, and with cutting and bridging forests that are of special importance would simply sink and destroy them. In this pool, if I may call it that, 33 species of animals have been observed. There are quite a few of these animals on the red list that you can read in a special brochure that they have published. By infesting and upgrading the Mosta hydropower plant, or - I'll say - a new power plant would destroy what remains intact in this part. Environmental aspects. I would like to point out that the Jesenicans and the surrounding people already have major problems with iron waste, which threaten human health and protection because of their heavy metal and phenol content. The recovery plan itself nowhere provides for the rehabilitation of this work. I hope, Minister, that you have ever seen ortho-photos of the shots of the Jesenice Iron and the changing of the river and the coast around the dump of the slag and these wastes. Moste hydroelectric power plant itself and Republic of Slovenia, as the master and owner, should first cut into the upper pool and fix this insurmountableness. The new location plan does not ensure, even worse, that in the lower outpouring of honour this mud will be removed in the lower lying, newly-increasing pool, meaning that when swinging even four metreglidines it will be very attractive to look at mud, mud and the contents of the slag from the autumn ironworks. Further, I would like to say that with a new anger and a new artificial lake, we expect a well-founded creation of fog. Imagine that Bled and its surroundings are in the same climatic conditions as the Ljubljana boiler, such as the result of the Medvoda Mavčiča hydroelectric power plant and others, with lakes, in fog almost most places near the Kran Valley or below. Maybe a laugh. Bled has a lake, but I warn you that the temperature of the water in the lake is in perfect natural conjugation with the temperature of the air and that Lake Bled is very faint at times, but that the temperature of the river that will be collected in this lake of accumulation is completely different and causes significantly different conditions for the formation of fog. Finally, I would like to reject the tourist aspect - so-called. We have heard many times that this new lake could be a new tourist attraction. I ask you, Minister of the Environment, how do you imagine in such a fluctuating level of swimming, rowing, how do you imagine playing golf with potential emerging fog, except with balls that emit infrared rays and with special glasses. So it is pointless to show this object and this intervention into this nature as a tourist acquisition. A new artificial lake would be placed between Vrba and Bled, between two Slovenian symbols, in one of the most important natural, yet untouched landscapes. How can we possibly imagine that, as Prešeren said: “with the surrounding image of paradise”, it would become a cliff of past industrial error, and what a gift the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Minister with the Ministry, on the millennium, the thousandth birthday of Bled, could bring joy to the inhabitants of the places there and to all Gorenjeks and all lovers of this truly remarkable part of Slovenia. Just a few more details. The flooded valley with its rim would be 200 meters away from the golf course. From the village of Breg 500 meters, from Zasip 600, from the center of Bled only 1,200 meters, from Vrba 1,400, from the foothills of Lesce 1,700, from the Šsbeck 2 kilometers, and from the Alpine air center 3,000 meters. However, I would like to touch upon the above-mentioned violations of the international agreements and conventions signed by the State. The International Commission for the Protection of the Alps, CIPRE, has warned you that the planned project of the Moste hydropower plant would violate the three sub-Alpine Conventions. In particular, the Energy Protocol, the Protocol on Nature Protection and Environmental Care and the Protocol on Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development. Given that Slovenia is a signatory to the Alpine Conventions, it is for the Minister to respect those Protocols as the first man. In October 2001, Bled hosted the fourth European Regional Conference of the Ramsam Convention on the Protection of Wetlands, which also highlighted the problem. At this conference, participants took action against such interventions as envisaged by the Ministry concerning the Mosta hydropower plant, and it is therefore essential that the project envisaged be withdrawn from the reception process. Because it is not yet, Mr Digger, it is certainly your great minus. I would very much like to see the ministry with you put an end to the pressure on the saints of the congregation of Bled and the councilor of the congregation of Bled. They themselves adopted a decree on the protection of wetlands and marshlands of Barja and this decree is in force. And I appeal again and again to all, if they care in any way about this place and the surroundings of Bled, let them not succumb to the pressures you are exerting. In any case, I personally wish that the acquisition of a location and construction permit would take place as slowly as it has been for decades, as are the acquisitions of location and construction permits for other citizens and other investors. The next observation I'm presenting to you is an observation that you actually triggered when you presented yourself. When you spoke about the location and construction permits and duration, you yourself mentioned that you would try to shorten procedures as soon as possible with proposals for a government regulation and other documents. You know how difficult it is to obtain a locational and construction permit, so I don't blame you for your record of construction years ago, because the procedures at this time are no faster and no more economical. I personally resent you for this regulation, which you have signed and given to the government. It is that administrative units begin to consistently acquire or require from people who obtain location permits so-called service rights. This is a problem that has caused terrible congestion in Slovenia, as well as in other investors such as the country. It is virtually impossible to obtain the privileges of land through which the road passes. This means that, in the event that the land is under denationalisation law or denationalisation is imposed, this service right cannot be exercised until the procedure is resolved and thus all the desire to build new infrastructure facilities has been stopped entirely and exclusively. Therefore, if we connect both my findings, it is no wonder that Seaway, for example, with Bleda moves its activities in the middle of the village of Zapuže - to make boats and I do not know what they are doing, so these boatmen - without the relevant documents. I don't understand that you've never been able to cut into this area. Even vice versa: inspectors, environmentalists and others react quickly to black construction. I ask you myself, Mr Minister, why to this day no plan and plan has been drawn up to this day for people to come to their rights, location and construction permits in an easier way. I am even telling you that where the matter is necessary, to start building as soon as possible, of course, in accordance with adopted acts, municipal and state laws and laws, why things are happening, that even those investors who have a desire are so severely prevented from coming before all inspections, all decisions on demolition, demolition, construction stop before they get a building permit and a location permit. How pointless this is, I will tell you in the case of two countries, France and Slovenia. Two parks of friendship were built with the French, between the French and the Slovenians. When the park was wanted before implementation in France, the administrative authority came to ‘on the spot’ to see, along with the documents he had with him, if the park of friendship could be built on the desired location, and issued a building permit in 20 minutes. ‘On the spot’, in 20 minutes. After a year, a similar park was built in the Republic of Slovenia. From the beginning to the opening celebration of this park it took one year and the investor could not obtain a construction and location permit - because of the service. The opening was due to the embarrassment of the French and Slovenian public, but it was at an object bearing the designation "black construction". I'm not presenting to the Samsa any embarrassment that might have arisen if this park wasn't with the French. A week after the opening of this park, the competent authority, the inspection authority, issued a decision to undermine the Park of Friendship with the French. Sam, Mr. Minister, I resent you for not doing exactly anything, along with your services, to make such nonsense and such, I will say, mistakes, in Slovenia. Slovenia is the country where obtaining the location and construction permit is the farthest. Let me get this straight. At the confirmation of this government, on the proposal of Prime Minister Drnovska, I mentioned in my presentation that he had a happy hand with some ministers, unfortunately, in some cases not. Personally, Mr Kopač, I judge you as a top financial expert, you have mastered in the field of economics, and it is also right that we stick to this area. But I am telling you, and I hope to say this, that in the field of environmental protection, you have just as much experience and knowledge as I am an electrician. So, in my opinion, you are an improper person for such an important area as the Ministry of Environment and Space. I will personally support the interpolation, and I hope that all those who do not want to join it in the future will join it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2002-01-25-SDZ3-Redna-12.ana.u27	Thank you very much, colleague Rupar. Colleagues and colleagues! With this, in line with yesterday's agreement with the leader of the parliamentary groups, I will now suspend the debate until Tuesday at 2 p.m. when we continue. I wish everyone a pleasant weekend, including Minister Kopač. Tuesday at 2 p.m., the National Assembly will continue its work. Until then, hello!
